i-9ec67756c72598a4-4	Mr President, I would like to Good morning in the Chamber! We are going to debate supplementary amending budget No 8. Normally it is two additional amending budgets per year, so it says something about the situation in the country. But first of all, Mr President, I was actually going to say hello to Mr Rufus and Mr Gusten, my grandchildren sitting in the gallery today. Then you have to be a little happy. It feels a little extra nice. My daughter Isabella is with you, too. Excuse me, Mr President. We're going back to extraordinary amending budget number 8. In times like these, it is very important to save jobs and businesses. It should be reforms that really start an effort on what we need to invest in: the climate, jobs, welfare and, of course, also economic equality. This is an extraordinary amending budget which may not really focus on all those parts but is trying to solve some of the problems that are absolutely here and now. What I can miss in the various government budgets is precisely the long-term perspective. Indeed, it is the case that the cuts in welfare continue throughout the country. At home in Gävle, for example, you save bread and fruit from retirement homes. In Karlshamn you save the food for the school children. In Nybro there are big cuts in school, in Sandviken as well. Special educators and student assistants are involved and children's groups and classes are made bigger in preschools, schools and recreation centres around the country. The health care staff, who had needed appreciation both with applause and in their wallet, have not yet received the latter appreciation. Care for the elderly continues to work in stress and is not enough for the care needs of the elderly. In the situation where we stand, it feels particularly harsh that there is a proposal for market rents. It is like a slap in the face of people, especially for those who have fought very hard to cope with the rent in the crisis. Of course, it is also a blow to all the country's tenants, who can expect a shock-high rent. In connection with the various amending budgets, the Left Party has proposed that the government should introduce a fund to prevent eviction. There are a lot of people who have lost that extra hour or their jobs in the crisis and have had costs that they have not really been able to cope with. There is a risk of eviction, and many worried tenants have contacted the Tenant Association. Unfortunately, this has not been considered so important, and so it has not gone through either. But it was a proposal that the Tenants' Association made and that the Left Party has also submitted to the Riksdag for a decision but has been rejected. I think that this with market rents and rejection of a fund against eviction is characteristic of the crisis packages that have been put forward. Sure, there is very good in them to save jobs, as well as temporary support for welfare. We have also supported most of the proposals. But we think they have a list. Ordinary people don't get the support they need. Welfare does not receive long-term support. Instead, as I said, the cuts continue in the midst of the pandemic. At the same time, Attendos's management can pick out large bonuses earned on tax money intended for the care of the old. Volvo may have a record in profit distribution topped with bonuses a few months after receiving billions from taxpayers. However, no party except us has wanted to remedy this. The regulatory framework would not change. People who receive support through insurance systems should be checked and questioned, but the cream in society can slide further. We in the Left Party have during this time done what we could to improve the measures in the various amending budgets, so this time too. We presented a committee initiative in connection with supplementary amending budget No 8 to which the Moderates and Christian Democrats first joined and then the rest of the committee, which was a good thing. It is a matter of individual traders and small businesses – it may be plumbers, hairdressers and so on – having the opportunity to take part in the turnover support even if they received sickness benefit or had been on parental leave. The Left Party got through such a committee initiative earlier, but the government set the limit at 50 percent. As a result, some small businesses have not benefited from turnover support because they may have been on parental leave to 40% or on sick leave to less than 50%. That is why we have presented this committee initiative, which has now been supported by the whole committee. It is a question of analysing the impact of the 50% limit and of setting the limit lower so that more can be included in the proposal and benefit from the turnover aid. The Moderates have also taken initiatives to improve companies in the cultural sector that have received support from the National Council for Culture during the pandemic. If you have received such support, you cannot benefit from the conversion aid, which has made it difficult for a great many cultural entrepreneurs. This committee initiative is that the government should ensure a solution so that the companies that have benefited from crisis support from the National Council for Culture during the pandemic should not be prevented from taking part in the conversion aid, such as some form of settlement. The Left Party has supported this, and then the whole committee. The committee also reiterates the call – on the initiative of us, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – for the government to review the flexibility regarding the comparative month in the regulatory framework for short-term work for seasonal variable activities. Today this is very rigid, and many companies have been hit hard by it. Of course, it can be difficult to find the reference month for seasonal operations. Some are tourist companies in the summer, others are in the winter and so on. So far, however, the government has not found a solution that will allow as many companies as possible to benefit from the aid. What we have also reacted to is that the Swedish Agency for Growth will not pay out the extended subsidies until November. It is far too late, and it will hit a great many companies hard, as well as their employees. The Left Party mainly supports the supplementary amending budget 8. However, we would have liked to change the rules on bonuses and dividends for companies that have received taxpayers' support, but we must not re-act this in accordance with the rules in force. However, what we do not support is the credit guarantee to SAS as there is no requirement for other shareholders to contribute, nor are there any environmental or climate requirements linked to the credit guarantee despite the climate crisis we are in. The climate crisis is obviously no more important than this. If we look at how the distribution has been in the past, we see that the government has invested seven times as much on aviation as on the railways. Now I even think it's up to eight times as much. I find it very worrying that aviation receives so much support while the railways that are climate-smart receive so little. Of course, flights have an important role in infrastructure in the Nordic countries, and in this SAS has an important and central role. However, the proposal for a credit guarantee or a loan framework should have been conditional on SAS developing an action plan for reducing CO2 emissions with targets to be robust and a plan to be presented to Parliament. It should have objectives compatible with the Paris Agreement, and SAS and other airlines should not offer routes on routes where flights can be easily replaced by trains. Mr President, I would like to I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-24	Mr President, I would like to I feel I have to start by commenting briefly on what happened on Monday. A temporary majority, consisting of the Left Party and the right-wing conservative parties, chose to press the button in this House and vote in favour of the motion of censure of the Swedish Democrats. As a result, Sweden is now in a very difficult political situation. We do not know what will happen, but whatever happens in the future, I can say with certainty that we Social Democrats will do what is best for Sweden. Having said that, I would like to point out that the pandemic does not take into account statements of censure. That is why we have also gathered here today to debate the eighth extraordinary amending budget for this year with additional measures and extensions to bring Sweden through the crisis. It is also thanks to the fact that, during the year, the parliament and government have acted together quickly and forcefully that we have been able to save jobs, businesses and welfare. The pandemic is primarily a crisis for life and health. Many have lost someone close to them. Even more people have been sick themselves. But the economic impact of the pandemic is also great. We have a heavy year behind us when many companies and employees have been hit hard. But we are now also seeing the light in the tunnel, much because the vaccinations are rolling out quickly. Squirt by shot, we save lives, but we save jobs too. The vaccine is the way out of the economic crisis. But the crisis is not over yet. We must both roll up and continue to hold on. Mr President, I would like to Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the government has been working on a clear strategy. First of all, the spread of infection should be limited. Money should not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care. Large amounts have been spent on the municipal sector to both compensate for the tax loss and create resources to manage deferred care and additional costs due to covid-19. It is, of course, about money, but it is also about staffing. This is why we extend the abolition of the benefit so that those students who want to get in and work in health and social care will not be financially affected. Today, we are also deciding on an additional 150 million to compensate the local government sector for the additional costs that may arise from rapid transport and an additional 11⁄2 billion for large-scale testing and detection. Now that there is also, at the advice of the Public Health Agency, the need to vaccinate children from 16 years of age, there will be resources for that too. As I said, the vaccine is the way out of this crisis. But I also know that there are many who are concerned about the consequences of the vaccine and who may hesitate to vaccinate. At the same time, it is incredibly important that there are many of us who actually do. That is why we have also contributed funds to the Swedish Public Health Agency for a strong information effort aimed at those groups that are difficult to reach. We also decide on an authorisation whereby the government may sell vaccines to other countries when it is clear that this is possible after the national need is met. As society opens up, borders are also opening up more and more. The EU has agreed on a national vaccination passport that will be usable within the EU. It is expected to be in place on 1 July. To do that, we're also shooting at resources. Mr President, I would like to Everyone who can work at home should work at home. But far from everyone has the opportunity to work from home. And no one should have to go sick to work because you can't afford to stay home. That is why we are extending the compensation for the withdrawals for employees and self-employed workers, the compensation for risk groups and the abolition of the requirement for medical certificates until September. The government has also made it clear that these subsidies and compensations will be extended until the vaccination target is reached. In order to compensate employers for sick pay costs above normal, resources, as well as equipment for personal assistants, will be added until September. Mr President, I would like to Even if we now see the light in the tunnel, it is a tough location for many companies and businesses around the country. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we have decided on historic crisis measures to help businesses overcome the crisis. The aid has made a difference. Over half a million Swedes have been on short-term leave and have been able to avoid the risk of losing their job. Today we are continuing this work by extending some of the support that has been so important. We are extending support for short-term work, also until September. We provide resources to the Swedish Agency for Growth to give the agency financial opportunities to shorten processing times and for the organisation of competence interventions. The turnover aid for individual traders, the aid for commercial companies, the conversion aid and the conversion aid for particularly affected undertakings will also be extended until September. Culture and sport have also been particularly affected by restrictions and recommendations that have made their activities more difficult. Today, we are shooting at almost half a billion to continue to mitigate the economic consequences of the pandemic. We also provide funding for regional cultural activities and replenish the resources for film support and compensation for artists. We also continue to support sport with SEK 600 million. The pandemic has highlighted the importance of civil society and the non-profit sector, not least for those who were vulnerable and vulnerable even before the pandemic. Therefore, we decide on support for organisations that work with people in socially particularly vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, in the shadow of increased isolation, we have seen an increase in domestic abuse and violence. The home should be the safest place, but it is not for many women and children. Therefore, we also provide resources to organisations that work with children in vulnerable situations and to organisations that work against violence in close relationships and honour repression. Mr President, I would like to Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Riksdag and the Government have together acted vigorously to get support measures in place. Processes that usually take years of investigation, consultation and processing have been shortened to only months. It must go both quickly and be good, but not everything has become perfect. Several times the support has had to be adjusted to improve and increase accuracy. Here today, for example, the committee agrees to send three announcements to the government to further review and improve aid. Mr President, I would like to The crisis is not over yet. Unfortunately, the pandemic has not yet been defeated. Many continue to make great efforts to nurture and vaccinate at a very high rate. The economic crisis is felt by many. And on top of that, we now have a serious political situation. But we will continue to put Sweden first. Despite major crisis measures, the Swedish economy remains strong, and there is room for manoeuvre in public finances. It is thanks to years of responsible politics. Thanks to the fact that in the good years we saved in the barns, as our Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson usually says, we were able to enter the crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977 and with the highest employment rate in the European Union. Since then, we have been able to raise pensions, strengthen defence, speed up climate change and safeguard well-being. But we want to do more. During the pandemic, the shortcomings of society have been clearly highlighted. We can see that the market is not a panacea. The solutions of the future are common. We will use our common economic strength to speed up climate change, strengthen welfare and hire more police officers. We Social Democrats built Sweden from a poor country to where we are today. We're ready to do it again. We will take Sweden forward. That's what we do best together. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-46	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that we are now 16 months into a pandemic that few of us originally thought would go this far. A year ago most of us thought that we were probably through the worst and that after the summer it would be good again. I would like to say to Mr President and to those of you who are listening that it is an important experience to take along: let us hope for the best but always plan for the worst. In fact, we do not know exactly what the future will look like. What happens still feels unreal sometimes. At the same time, hand spirit, mouthguards and other things have become a quite natural part of everyday life. We now hope that all efforts made to vaccinate our population and populations around the world will have the intended effect, that together we will be able to fight the virus. At the same time, we note some setbacks in other countries where vaccination rates are high. However, there are temporary setbacks and measures must be taken to limit human contact once again, thereby reducing the spread of infection. Mr President, I would like to What we need to do in this Parliament is to hope for the best but always take responsibility and plan for the worst. Those who have been the heroes of the pandemic are those who work in the front line: the health professionals, the elderly care staff and all those who are now vaccinating our population on a broad front. Let me also, as I have done before, thank you very much to everyone in our country who is making sure that society works during this very difficult test that we have been through. It is the shop staff who make sure that we can buy food. It is the truck driver who drives his round in the morning to make sure the shops are filled with goods. It is everyone who ensures that all that needs to work also works. It's engineers who make sure there's water coming out of the tap. That is obvious, but someone has to do it. Otherwise, our society won't work. All of you are making it through the crisis together. Thank you very much for that. This also applies to all those who have had the opportunity and who have chosen to stay at home and work from home. That might sound luxurious. But I think we all know someone who's been working from home for the last 15 to 16 months. It has also been a trial, in various ways. You have also done a great deal to ensure that we as a country get through this. This has reduced the burden on public transport, and this has led to fewer people being out in society. This has meant that we have been able and able to reduce the spread of infection in a good way. Most of us know someone who has received covid-19 or has become ill themselves. Many people get very mild symptoms. Others have very severe symptoms. It is almost impossible to predict who will be affected in what way. A friend of mine, a couple of years older, is now walking in the hospital after two months. Such things are also important to take in now that we see the amazing weather and feel such hopefulness. We still haven't gotten through the pandemic completely. People are still getting sick. People struggle, not least those who work in our hospitals and help people to get through very difficult situations. Mr President, I would like to The world economy has largely recovered and is very strong. It is a paradox for those who both work in and run companies in restaurants, hotels and other areas. Those industries have been most affected when we have reduced human contact. They haven't had any customers and have risked and lost their jobs. It is for them that we have decided on the various crisis measures, not least what we are talking about here today. With this additional amending budget, we are extending emergency aid to save jobs and businesses. We ensure the possibility for people at risk to be at home from work, so that they do not need to be ill with severe consequences. We provide resources for culture, sport and civil society. We are also addressing shortcomings in emergency aid. Even if emergency aid has been in place, companies are being squeezed, and employees risk losing their jobs if we do not correct it. In this budget, we are spending EUR 15 billion on extending emergency aid for a few more months. It can be hard to understand how much money it is. It's a normal reform space for a fall. It's half the police budget. We are now taking decisions on this type of supplementary amending budget on an ongoing basis, so that Sweden can get through the crisis. This also means that we will have to take great responsibility when we finally get through the pandemic to ensure that Sweden will have sound public finances again. There is a perception that it is the government that has developed the various emergency packages. The government has probably also done everything they could to make it look like that. But, Mr President, let me remind everyone who listens that it is to a large extent the parliamentary parties, not least the Moderates, who have initiated crisis support, have gathered a majority in the House for them and talked to each other to solve the problems we face. For example, the Christian Democrats have pushed hard for support for civil society. In the supplementary amending budget we are debating today, the Christian Democrats have been driving several parts to get faster crisis support and so on. The Left Party has made great efforts during this time. What we are going to decide today is to some extent about the person who has been on sick leave or parental leave and runs an individual firm and has been put in a pinch. Through its initiatives, the Left Party helps to solve it, so that people's businesses will not be lost. It is about hairdressers, masseurs and many others who have lost their customers and have not been able to get crisis support. We can solve that today. Mr President, I would like to The government has been good at taking credit for things you haven't done. But what you're responsible for, you've always tried to evade responsibility for. All spring we have been able to follow, for example, the problems with the payments of short-term lay-off aid. People have risked losing their jobs because it has taken up to eight months to get emergency aid. The Swedish Agency for Growth's problem is the government's responsibility. You haven't been able to take it. In several debates in this House, I have spoken to the Minister for Enterprise, who has declared that everything is under control. We're in the process of solving the problems. The Swedish Agency for Growth itself has confirmed that they will soon be down to being able to handle it in a few days. ..................................................... In this supplementary amending budget, the government proposed from the outset that the Swedish Agency for Growth should be given four months before it would even be possible for companies to submit applications for emergency aid. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and others managed to raise an initiative around which we eventually brought together the whole committee. Now the government is getting a clear message: it must go faster. It is unreasonable that it should take four months for companies to even apply for emergency aid. Then people lose their jobs. We Moderates will never accept that. We will do everything we can in this crisis to save as many jobs and as many companies as we can. In this way, after this crisis, Sweden will be able to have tax revenues and the opportunity to build and build society strongly again. Then we need all these jobs and all these companies. We will do our bit to ensure that it works. The government has not really succeeded with the conversion aid, and the Moderates, together with other parties in the Finance Committee, made changes so that it would be better adapted to the companies that exist in, among other things, the service industry. The government has still not managed to get it in place, even though a united parliament has told the government to do so. Now we are again pointing out that if the spread of the disease continues and the pandemic does not resolve, these support needs to be in place by the autumn at the latest. This urgently needs to be done by the government that will take office. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, let me approach the situation we now have in this House, that is to say that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is no longer tolerated. His government base is not there, and that is why we now have a different situation. But those who listen can be sure that Swedish health care works perfectly, despite the current situation. All the authorities and everything else in the country are working perfectly well, despite the situation we have. Sweden is strong and works well, even though it looks like it does. I am absolutely convinced, Mr President, that if the deposed Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, does not get his government base in order, there are others who are prepared to take over as soon as possible. Ulf Kristersson has clearly announced that the Moderates belong to form a bourgeois government that talks with all parties in the Riksdag to solve the problems that Sweden needs to solve. If the outgoing Prime Minister chooses instead to announce an extra election, the Moderates are more than ready to meet the voters. We have a clear headwind in public opinion. We have a repulsive campaign organization out there, grass roots that no one would rather than in different ways and with the opportunities that the pandemic offers to talk with voters about what Sweden needs in the future. We have many problems that need to be resolved. There the Moderates are ready either to take over the government power here and now or to meet the voters in an extraordinary election. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the Committee on Finance's report. These are important reinforcements to save jobs and businesses and to secure the work against the spread of infection. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the Bureau of the Committee on Finance, the members of the Committee on Finance, the Presidents and the rest of the House a really good midsummer. Maybe I'll see you sooner than we planned a week ago. Happy Midsummer!
i-9ec67756c72598a4-71	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. Another supplementary amending budget is on the committee table to debate in this House, and there is much to say about the past and how things have been dealt with. Many small businesses have been hit hard during the pandemic. We're familiar with that. In committee, we have worked intensively to ensure that all the small businesses that have fallen between the chairs are caught up and get the help that is expected when government restrictions affect one's industry. The work on vaccination continues as planned, and the spread of infection in society is decreasing, which is a good thing. Restrictions have been slightly adjusted, but there is still an economic impact on companies, organisations and individuals. The goal of a 70% vaccination coverage in the adult population is not expected to be achieved by June 2021, as had been planned. The goal of the Swedish Public Health Agency is now that everyone over the age of 18 should have received their second shot by the end of October. It is therefore gratifying that a joint committee can increase support for businesses, culture, sport and civil society and continue to take measures to limit the spread of infection, protect risk groups and otherwise mitigate the negative consequences that the spread of infection has had for our society. Even though the government is missing the vaccination target, we see the light in the tunnel. There is reason to prepare well for the fact that the pandemic will continue to have an effect and affect the business community in general and the contact industries in particular, not least because of the unpleasant news about the new aggressive mutations of the virus and the risk it entails. For this reason, we in the Swedish Democrats are very positive about the extension of short-term, conversion and turnover aid. There is no reason not to extend aid as long as the risk of further restrictions continues, rather the opposite. The responsibility of the state is to ensure that businesses and small businesses receive support as long as they need help. The criticism of long processing times is relevant, and they have been a major failure on the part of the government. The committee's initial letter did not even include this aspect, which testifies to the government's lack of understanding of the reality of small businesses despite all the times that we in the opposition, but also the industries themselves, have reminded the government of the serious situation. A number of committee initiatives have now been put forward in committee. We welcome the fact that the government parties support the opposition. This concerns emergency aid to individual traders who have been on sick leave or on parental leave. Because of sick leave, parental leave, etc., individual traders have not been able to benefit from turnover support. This also applies to crisis support for companies that have received support from the National Council for Culture during the pandemic and to short-term work for seasonal activities. This applies, in particular, to the wording that deals with the duration of proceedings: In the committee's view, too long a period between applications and payments risks creating uncertainty for both employers and workers and impairing the opportunities for otherwise well-functioning companies to overcome the consequences of the pandemic. The committee therefore considers it extremely important that the application procedure and the approval of the aid be streamlined in such a way that the time between the application and payment is as short as possible. ..................................................... This is positive. Now we just hope that the processing times will not be so long in the autumn but that this will be handled quickly. Small businesses are a central part of our well-being. Small companies are the working class of modern service economy. Small businesses deserve better than current policies. Having said that, I would like to conclude by wishing the Presidents, the Members of the Chamber, my colleagues in the committee and the other Members of the Parliament a pleasant summer and some kind of vacation, even if we do not know how everything will be.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-83	Mr President, I would like to During the ongoing debate, I was contacted by a better restaurant in Kalmar, Postgatan, which I have visited both as a guest and as a ruler regarding company support. The Communication noted that there are still plenty of companies waiting for months and over six months to receive their aid. They have not yet seen the result of what we have discussed in this House on a number of occasions, namely that this must go faster and work better at the entrepreneurial level. We just have to make sure this works. What we say in speaking chairs like this must also be felt out there in reality. It's obvious this has worked for some companies. The general picture is that it works better and better and has done so for a long time. But let us not forget that there are still many Swedish companies that have waited unacceptably long for the support they are entitled to. It is therefore a good thing that the committee is now in complete agreement and once again stresses the importance of this need to work in the entrepreneurial arena. The companies that combine different forms of aid must make it flow in a simple way. Even for people who find themselves in somewhat unusual situations, such as parents' leave and the like, support policy must work. There is every reason to remain on the ground from this House and to ensure that the government, on the one hand, and the responsible authorities, on the other hand, do their job in the fastest possible way and in the best possible way. Mr President, I would like to The general picture, however, is that we are coming out of the Corona crisis that has marked the past year. Only today, we saw new growth figures and forecasts from the Ministry of Finance, which track growth of 4.7 percent for the full year this year. Those are very nice numbers. It is evident in much of the Swedish economy as well as the world economy that something is happening. This is of course very good news, but it must not obscure the image of those industries and companies that still feel that they are in a tight spot under the different parts of pandemic policy and continue to need a helping hand to make it all the way. We still need to do more to save jobs and businesses, to hold on and hold on. What we are taking today also means an extension of aid policy until the end of September. This will hopefully not be the case for the vast majority of companies. You will not have problems of the kind that make you need the various corona support. But for some companies it remains important. That is why it is good that we are already stating that this will be a long way into the autumn. On the list of other things that are being done, we note that important steps are being taken to protect what we want to protect and which we want to retain after the last parenthesis of the coronapndemin. Support for culture, sport and civil society means that actors who are important for how our society works and actors who get in place what makes life worth living in many ways continue to exist, even though you cannot gather as usual, even though you cannot carry out the summer activities that draw in the money that the association lives on the rest of the year and so on. Despite these difficulties, Sweden's cultural, organizational and sporting life will continue to operate and do its important work during the pandemic. Another issue on which we are deciding today is the additional loan framework or credit guarantees for the airline SAS. We are a number of parties in this House who, in recent years, have said that this is a state ownership that we basically want to dismantle. We don't want the state to own airlines anymore. This has been a very clear direction in Swedish politics for a long time. However, over the last year we have taken a number of decisions which go in the opposite direction. We've put in additional money. This is simply the balance to be struck. Is the current pandemic, with all the uncertainty it entails, the right time to lose the company that has accounted for a very large part of Sweden's domestic and, above all, foreign air traffic? No, that's the answer. This is not the time to push further uncertainty into the system. Therefore, it is right to take steps to keep a SAS also at the end of the pandemic, so that we can fix the situation in the future and think about what the Swedish aviation market should look like. These decisions can be made much more calmly with an SAS that is still there than if it had been allowed to fail in the last year. We also provide large funds for testing, vaccination and contamination detection. That work must of course be allowed to continue, because this is, as previous speakers have said, the key here is to be able to fully return to life as we felt it before the coronapandemy. Here money is no problem, and it has always been so. We take the steps – and the notes – needed for the Swedish people to feel the greatest security. Vaccination is now very good and very fast. Even a young man like me goes around in the hope of being able to book vaccine times in Region Västernorrland. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we can conclude that this is a somewhat uncertain situation in Swedish politics since Monday. Let's see what this gets into. But for my part, I find some confidence in what we have done in total unity over the past year. Is it something we have shown, of course, that all eight parties in this House can agree on important efforts for the country when Sweden needs it and when the situation demands it? We can take steps with scope and speed that no one thought possible in order to get in place support and efforts to protect Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that the ability we have shown over the last year remains in the future. The parties in this House may need some time to get a new government in place and take further work on the issue of government. However, if the situation so requires, whether it be the coronapndemin or something else, we will be able, despite a somewhat uncertain political situation, to gather together and make the necessary decisions at a time when the country needs it. I'm not the least bit worried about that.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-94	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Emil Mr Källström concluded with. This Parliament has shown very clearly what can be done together. I can only say for my own part that the Moderates, together with the Left Party, have managed to get more money for health care and care for the elderly and that we have collaborated with the Swedish Democrats and been able to get crisis support on the ground to save jobs and businesses. Several of the support that Mr Källström is talking about in the speaker's chair is the result of the fact that parties have been talking to each other and that the members of the Committee on Finance have jointly resolved issues and pressed before them many times a reluctant government. Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Mr Källström. If we do not accept all the problems that the government has caused in terms of, for example, the payment of crisis aid – the Center Party is certainly part of the majority in the Committee on Finance which says that this must go much faster – what are the Center Party and Member Källström prepared to do to make the government do better, if it is to give the same government continued support? After all, the government has failed in areas by area, and it is often the Finance Committee that has had to bail out these parts. What would you be prepared to do?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-96	Mr President, I would like to I think Edward Riedl answers his own question. Both the Center Party and the entire Finance Committee see problems in the implementation, perhaps above all of the decisions made by the Riksdag. Then we are clear to the government that this is not good enough. On a number of points in the last year, the Committee on Finance has said, usually in total agreement, that it must be better, that it must go faster, that it must be possible to combine the various support schemes with each other and that we must have a clearer entrepreneurial perspective in this. I am not ashamed at all of the fact that in many cases, as it were, the Center Party has been sitting in both rooms. We have sat and negotiated historically great support for crisis. Then we have noted that the implementation of the same crisis policy is not good enough. Then we have formed majorities in the Finance Committee who say that this is not good enough, that the government must be better placed on its authorities and that the government may also have to lie on itself a little better and take this more seriously. I am absolutely convinced that the Centre Party will continue to play this role as a middle party in politics. We are co-forming majorities for the good of Sweden. Sometimes it is a bit different games that are included. At certain stages, we are involved both in negotiating the policy in government negotiations, and later in the Finance Committee and the Riksdag in stating that this is not good enough and that it needs to be better – then we are in the formation of majorities there. I think that role has served both the Center Party and Sweden well. I see no reason to stop that work.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-99	Mr President, I would like to Member Källström may land in whatever he wishes to land in. I had hoped that it would have been possible to conclude that it would have been better for a government that actually wanted these subsidies to work and that managed this. It would have been better if our authorities had been handled by a government that wanted to speed up these emergency aid. It is in fact the case that, from the start of the crisis to today, there have been problems with the payment of, for example, short-term lay-off aid. It has cost jobs, and it has cost companies. The Center Party has repeatedly been disappointed by the government that it has not got to it. We Moderates have criticised this repeatedly. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has contributed some money to a few more administrators. None of it essentially solves the problems the government has in getting this right. We all know that. Mr President, I would like to I had hoped – but it is my hope – that the Center Party would land in the conclusion that it would have been better to have a government that really wanted crisis support and wanted them to work. Then you could have solved a lot of the problems. This applies not least to faster payments. There we have lost jobs and risk losing even more jobs if the pandemic continues. You don't know what's going on. That's why this extra amending budget wants four months before the search period even starts until it's searchable. I hear what Mr Källström says. I had hoped that we would have landed in the same conclusion. It would have been better to have a bourgeois government that wanted to pay out crisis aid and wanted them to work.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-104	Mr President, I would like to Until Edward Riedl's last sentence, it really sounded like me and Edward Riedl could agree that the best thing would be a centered government with a centered finance department. The truth is that the Center Party's frustration that the Ministry of Finance is not as entrepreneurship-oriented as one would wish is older than 8 years. It is more like 16 years, 20 years or 30 years. It was probably when Nils G Åsling was Minister of Industry that there was some order on it. The truth is that when both Social Democrats and Moderates enter the Ministry of Finance, something changes. One of the biggest frustrations that we center parties had during the alliance years was that the then Ministry of Finance under moderate leadership was against reduced employer contributions, investor deductions, option programs and all the new ideas that the Center Party put forward for Sweden to become a slightly more business-oriented country. It was a finance ministry perspective that we have had to fight against in recent years as well. It is frustrating, and it is equally frustrating whether it is sossar or moderates sitting and bringing forward the finance ministry perspective. It needs to change. But so far we can see that both S and M have failed to resist the culture that exists in those walls. It is likely that new garbage, new brooms, will be needed. Perhaps it is Edward Riedl who will at some point shoulder that cape or perhaps someone else. Unfortunately, in recent decades there has been much to be desired from both Moderates and Social Democrats in terms of an entrepreneurial perspective in the Ministry of Finance.
i-CYRKvFLDfvpcKNBqQZSof5	Mr President, I would like to The matter concerns supplementary amending budget No 8, and the Finance Committee's report No 52. We Christian Democrats support them. This report and this decision provide important means for us to continue to combat the pandemic and its harmful effects in our society. It is about funds for vaccines, infectious detection and testing and to extend the support for businesses and jobs that are now required to prevent us from drawing up further breaks in our common society. It is very important that these things happen now and that the support is extended to not least many hard-working entrepreneurs and employees who every day, right now, do not know if they are able to run their business further a little bit, one more day, another week, in the hope that it will turn around. It'll turn around sometime. We have been torn between hope and despair for a long time. Both of these feelings must continue to dwell for a while, even though hope is increasingly taking the upper hand. We support the report because, among other things, the Committee on Finance has done what the Committee on Finance has done so many times during the pandemic. It has highlighted the shortcomings in business support that the government has not seen and called for changes on a number of points. When we received the proposal, the focus was on extending aid to businesses between July and September, but that applications for this aid could only be made in November. An application for aid could be submitted in November. It goes without saying that when we have lived with the pandemic for so long, many companies are in significantly worse condition than they were when it started. The liquidity is worse, the energy is worse. You have lived and been burdened by the pandemic, administration and everything that can now be for a long time. That is why I am pleased that the Committee on Finance is now very clear that this must go faster. The Committee on Finance, pushed by my party and other parties among other things, says this and says other things. It must be easier to combine aid. Just because you have received a small subsidy in a support system should not be excluded from support that has arrived later and could mean the difference between life and death for a company and between jobs and unemployment for employees. It must also be resolved. The committee is also very clear that we must do more for the individual traders who were on parental leave before the pandemic and, not least, that we must ensure that aid works for all companies, including those who have a lot of seasonality in their industries. The support has not been good enough here. The changes proposed by the government are not enough. The committee is now demanding that the government do more. All this is good. All of this is necessary in order for us to have better functioning crisis support at this stage, Mr President. There are other things that the government does not do and that it should do, and that should happen urgently. Here I am thinking, above all, of the fact that what the committee called for in February has still not been done, namely to come back with broad support reaching broad civil society. A little is given to certain organisations in the budget. However, the broad support achieved has still not succeeded in creating. It has been a bit like what is happening alongside culture and sport in civil society has not received the attention of the government. It has been demanded that the committee have called for this. But even when we do, the government can't come back in a good way. Non-profit organisations have been referred to the existing emergency aid. But they have not been adapted to the reality of these associations. The income they had received has not been taken into account when calculating their turnover. Many associations are independent even if they exist in a large national organization. Every independent association then does not reach the turnover limits, since much of the business is based on ideality and not on business. They have therefore not been able to benefit from the aid. This must change. The government must return with that support. It is good that more is invested in culture and not least in sport. We know that in the wake of the pandemic, children and young people have lost many of their contact areas with associations. They move less than they did before. It can have long-term health consequences. They have lost context with the present adults. These are protective factors for children who are in homes where it does not work in the way they would like to, but where the children are at risk. Here it is incredibly important that we now make sure that the association life, the sports movement and anyone who can offer these places for the children do not perish without them being there and can make further efforts once the pandemic releases its grip and things can return to normal. Mr President, I would like to We have a wide range of challenges and problems that we face even after the pandemic drops its grip. Of course, it's about crime. And that applies to health care, where a large health debt has been built up for a long time and where people have been queuing during the pandemic. This also applies to problems that have their starting point in the pandemic, but which may run the risk of lingering. I am thinking, above all, of long-term unemployment, which is in danger of getting stuck at very, very high levels. New, big and powerful grips are now needed to prevent this from becoming a low-intensity crisis that affects Sweden for a very long time. There are also other important aspects of unemployment that may not have been given much attention. It leads to loneliness and isolation that also affects one's health and one's own life in depth. SCB carried out a new survey last winter on how people have had it in 2020 when it comes to social relations. It shows that it is older than 80 years and unemployed who are the groups where the most people – and there are many – say that they have been alone always or almost all the time. Of course, many people have self-insulated themselves during the pandemic because of the spread of infection. But it can be difficult to break the pattern when the pandemic is over, and here we need as many outstretched arms as possible to help break the loneliness and isolation that can be so devastating to people's lives. Then civil society is important. But it is also important that we take this dimension into account when designing policies, when we fight unemployment and when we ensure that older people do not become prisoners in their own homes. Instead, there should be housing with Community opportunities. We will ensure that the municipalities can give a signal to everyone over a certain age to check the situation, see how they are doing, see what needs they have and show that there is actually someone who cares about them. Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström mentioned that there is cooperation in the Riksdag on important reforms. When there's a crisis, we come together and solve problems. I think he is right in a lot; it was not least so at the beginning of the crisis. Unfortunately, however, it has slowed down somewhat, and the committee has had to take a little more to force the government to do what is required of business support. But in the broad outlines I agree with Emil Källström. He stated that he has a solid belief that it will continue to be that way. I hope so, too. Emil Källström has also announced that he is leaving Parliament's work. I believe that there are risks in this particular perspective. Emil Källström has been a bridge builder, a wise person and a person who has been able to put the prestige aside to contribute to Sweden's best. There are many of us, Mr President, who will miss him.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-132	Mr President, I would like to This really was a moment. I don't know how to top it. In addition, Mats Persson has not entered the tribute to Emil Källström in my file. So you, Emil, just have to get back to Mats. It is obvious that I am not a reincarnation of Mats Persson. However, the pandemic and the situation we are in now mean that we have to resort to all the means at our disposal, and there I am somewhere the last commandment. Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has brought enormous efforts to Sweden. The Liberals have taken responsibility together with all parties in the Riksdag. We have pushed for support for health care, and we have pushed for support for jobs. All those who work in these sectors – health care, school and so on – have made fantastic and heroic contributions. All the entrepreneurs who have fought for their life's work to stand tall deserve our respect. It is when entrepreneurs can avoid redundancies and bankruptcies that we can secure jobs. And as many Swedes as possible should have a job to go to. That is why action is needed. We have heard, and we know, that parts of the Swedish business community have managed the Corona crisis very well. But for some entrepreneurs it has been extremely tough. We are talking about taxi drivers, restaurateurs and cultural workers. In Gothenburg, from which I come, restaurant owners, tourism and traders have gathered every Friday at a place on Avenyn, digitally but also physically, to talk about the situation together with politicians at different levels. There has been talk of payments that have been delayed and, at worst, have not arrived. It has been talked about what happens after the pandemic and about the skills that must work for a restaurant owner or restaurant owner to hire someone and for there to be someone who is prepared and has the skills to take the jobs that will be available. But we are also now seeing in the pandemic that there is a new unemployment. We see long-term unemployment deepening and hundreds of thousands of people who are unable to support themselves. We also see it in growing gaps between those who have a job and those who are outside. We know that it is in the workplace that community is deepened. When people do not have this opportunity, it means an alienation that we must do everything we can to address and remedy. Mr President, I would like to When I'm not trying to imagine Mats Persson, I'm on the Education Committee. The Corona crisis is evident not least in school. Many students feel worse in the pandemic. They are unable to support pupils' health or to be captured by an adult in school. We are not yet aware of the extent of the educational debt that comes in the wake of the pandemic. It is not the same to sit in front of a screen as to meet the teacher in the classroom. I think we will need to talk and find reforms for this for a long time to come. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the importance of civil society and how important it is to provide more funding for the activities of civil society organisations. In a stable democracy such as Sweden – and we are in fact in spite of the current crisis – we probably do not always appreciate the importance that civil society has for democracy on the one hand and for individuals who, via civil society, become part of a larger community. The combination of these two is essential – the individual in the larger society. This is shown not least by Robert Putnam in the book Bowling A lone, which may be a book tip to the government for the summer. Mr President, I would like to This supplementary amending budget provides funds for organisations working with children in vulnerable situations. It won't be enough, but it's a bit on its way. We know, after discussions with Bris and other organisations, that children in vulnerable homes and situations have become even more vulnerable during the pandemic. Isolation, in some cases with a family member who drinks too much or beats, causes far too many children to suffer. The budget contribution is good, but it is not enough. More will have to be done in the future. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-144	Mr President, I would like to Let's sum up a strange year. At least that was the idea of today's debate and today's exercises. Then it is worth reflecting on what has worked and what has not worked. We entered this crisis with a lot of things that spoke for us, with stable finances and extremely good authorities who were prepared to change their business. But we also had a difficult parliamentary situation, as it has been in recent years. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention a few things that I feel have really worked out during the crisis that we are still in, but which we are beginning to see at the end of. Yesterday there was a report that was linked to media support. The serious situation for the Swedish media was something we talked about very much about in the run-up to the crisis, and one of the things that the government took on clearly at the beginning of the crisis was to design special support for the Swedish media that they could access in addition to other business support. Yesterday, an evaluation showed that this support has really made a difference. It's reached out to the editorial teams. It has worked and supported them and thus carried Swedish news agencies through the crisis. It is an extremely important thing for democracy, not least in a crisis. What would we have done without the media that passed on the messages from authorities, reviewed the messages from different authorities and reviewed how different parts of society managed to deliver during the crisis? It has been an extremely important part. In a crisis, it becomes so clear how important the role of the media in a democracy is. What has also worked, I think, is that the authorities have changed in a fantastic way. They have re-evaluated what they do and moved staff between authorities to be where they do the most good. Having said that, there is still a great deal of frustration about wanting more. Long processing times are not acceptable, but this is not, of course, the result of not trying to do their very best. What was important before the crisis and which is also important now is the great concern for the families who are struggling with their economy. Not least, it concerns their children. For every summer vacation, we know that many children long and hope for baths, camps and vacations, while other children dread. We know that this is directly linked to the parents'ability to support themselves, because it is also the basis for achieving family stability. During this year, many Swedes have had to leave their employment and the security that this provides. This has increased anxiety for many children. Therefore, it has been an extremely important and strong focus for the Green Party to strengthen these families in different ways. We've done it through changes in the unemployment fund. More people had the opportunity to enter the unemployment fund, and the levels have been strengthened. It has been very important, and it is one of the reasons why we can also see in the economic forecasts that the economy has done well. This is, of course, money that has gone straight to consumption but has also given stability. SKR reports that it has also meant that the pressure on the supply aid has been less than it would otherwise have been. We have increased the housing allowance, which is a benefit that is well aimed at the weakest families. It is an effective measure. I and the Green Party believe that we should remain at this high level even ahead. Another important thing has been to strengthen civil society. They have also been prepared to change and be there. We hear reports that more people come to the City Mission, for example, asking for clothes, food and very simple things. Then we have strengthened, for example, the possibility for the City Mission and other associations and communities to be there in the crisis. Then, of course, there is health care. Many words from this pulpit have spoken about health care. It can be boring, but it can't be said too many times what a fantastic effort you have made in Swedish healthcare in changing and working for a long time. Now we have a summer ahead of us, and you work to get summer schedules together. It will be difficult, and it will require further sacrifices. We have many Swedes who have also made many kinds of sacrifices. It is important to repeat a warm and heartfelt thanks from here to all those who have done what they can to reduce congestion and the spread of infection. It has been at the heart of our work. In the Riksdag it has been a little different, but in general it has been a spirit of cooperation until now that I think is very important and that I hope we will be able to return to in a normal situation this autumn. In a crisis, I and the Green Party see that the most important thing is to safeguard stability combined with an agility when it comes to changing and making the right measures at the right time, but also to protect the weakest. We have been looking at this throughout this crisis. And we will be looking forward, too, because Sweden is a country with economic and social differences. The differences in health in Sweden are large, and this has been reinforced during the crisis. That is regrettable. Here we need to make strong efforts to strengthen health care and the ability of welfare to protect the weakest and reduce economic gaps. That is what we have in mind when we look ahead. Mr President, I would like to One thing we have also done in this crisis is, of course, to look also at the major crises that are going on in the world and that are affecting, namely the climate crisis and the depletion of biodiversity. When we have boosted the Swedish economy, we have chosen to put a lot of energy into that part. It is about strengthening climate work and pushing money out to those companies that want to invest in the future. Yesterday we received another fantastic report that the work on steel without coal is progressing with a technological breakthrough, which was very exciting to read about. It is based on state intervention, that is, the state goes in and invests in those parts where we believe the future exists industrially and in terms of jobs. We also make huge efforts to preserve Swedish nature and make it available to many people. I hope that there are many who during this summer go out into Swedish nature and then see that there are new footbridges, new toilets and new information signs that make it easy to get out into nature. It is an important thing for public health, but also, in my view, for social sustainability. That is something we can offer many. Coming out and taking part in nature and the strengthening and actually amazing that nature does to us people both mentally and physically is something that doesn't have to cost money. I hope that both I and many Members will have the opportunity to do so this summer, although, hopefully in a spirit of good cooperation, we should first and foremost focus on finding a leadership and a government for Sweden. Everyone else I hope will have the opportunity to enjoy the Swedish nature. We will certainly also have to come back to the issue of business support and ensure that we ride this crisis all the way out. We're not gonna let go too soon. We will not take time off until the crisis is actually over and we have survived the pandemic and can return to a real normal situation involving crowding, closeness and meetings in the fields of culture and politics. With this, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and wish the Presidium for President, the secretariat for the committee and my colleagues in the Committee on Finance a good summer.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-169	Honourable Members of the House and around Sweden! As a result of Monday's vote of censure, we do not know exactly when it might be appropriate to regroup the House, but it has long been planned that today I should say a few words to sum up the spring's work in Parliament and wish you all a happy summer, so I intend to do so regardless of the political turbulence of the last few days. Today, Parliament takes the last planned decisions before the summer. We have a couple of scheduled meetings even the week after midsummer, but this is the official closing day. The Parliament is always at the heart of the events, but through the declaration of censure the spotlight has been even more clearly directed towards politics, against parties and against Sweden's governance. The conditions of parliamentarism have rarely been as clear as during this parliamentary term. Parliamentarism, i.e. the principle that government power is derived from parliament, has in practice been in force in Sweden since 1917, more than 100 years ago. However, it was not incorporated into the Constitution until decades later. The result was eventually the one-chamber holiday we are now working in, an institution that this year celebrates its 50th anniversary, something we noted at the spring semester's first chamber meeting in January. When the one-chamber system was introduced, it was aimed, among other things, at making parliamentarism clearer. There was a single chamber before which the government was responsible. At the heart of change and reform, both 100 years ago and 50 years ago, as for events today, are voters and election results. That is what we have on our table to handle, and with it sometimes also comes the extra spotlight. Regardless of the final outcome of the motion of censure, this Parliamentary Session is approaching its end, and we have also completed three quarters of the ordinary parliamentary term. It has been a few years as no one else in Sweden and in the Riksdag. After a record government formation in 134 days, there was a period of – if I may put it that way – ordinary parliamentary work. Then the pandemic hit the world and Sweden, something I will return to shortly, and so on Monday the Parliament decided for the first time on a motion of censure. In the light of this summary, I would like to repeat something that I think deserves to be said again: My ambition, and I perceive that I share with everyone in the Riksdag, has always been that the Riksdag should carry out its mission despite the special political and social conditions, and this Parliament has done with this honour. The House met more than 500 hours in 2020, and the committees broke record in the number of meetings. In addition to the thousands of decisions taken each year by the Riksdag, we have also dealt with the pandemic, both in practical terms through changing forms of work and politically. We have prepared 20 amending budgets, 30 proposals and 21 committee initiatives related to the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen! When I took office as President, I decided on three key words that would characterise my work. One of them is long-termism, and by that I mean that we both need to deal with issues here and now and raise our eyes to think about what we need to do today to ensure that Parliament is well equipped for its tasks in the future. I also think that we sometimes need to look back in order to be able to better look ahead. With respect for Parliament's history and traditions, it is important that we continually review and develop our working methods. The follow-up of the work of the Riksdag and the Riksdag Administration during the pandemic is currently ongoing and will provide us with important input when we consider how the parliamentary work will be performed in the future. An area that has been put in lightning during the pandemic is of course our IT work. An extensive development work has taken place since March last year and accelerated since the Director of Parliament decided on a round of events last autumn, but more is needed and more is planned for the Riksdag to seize the opportunities of digitalisation in the short and long term. A concrete example is that the work to enable digital submission of questions and interpellations is under way. The committees are my second watchword. The work of the Conference of Presidents on discussions and exchanges of experience on the working arrangements of committees continues. We have also agreed on a developed training initiative for committee chairmen after the next elections. I would also like to highlight the more structured exchange that we have introduced between the committees and the delegations to the parliamentary assemblies. My third keyword is democracy. Parliament is part of the present, and the decisions here shape the future. To develop the Riksdag is thus to develop an important part of Swedish democracy. Of course, we also continue to celebrate our 100th anniversary of democracy's breakthrough in Sweden. This autumn the celebrations become even more topical – 100 years since the first parliamentary elections where both women and men were allowed to participate. This will of course be noted, and I hope that you will both take part in the celebration and help us bring the anniversary to all parts of our beautiful country. After all, it is the entire Swedish parliament that celebrates Sweden's entire democracy. Then, of course, we will celebrate all over Sweden. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me give a sample of other news in Parliament in general and small. The Rules of Procedure of this House and the photo code of the part concerning this House have been updated. It has given us consolidated and clearer rules on how to carry out the work in this House, and we have also opened up a little more opportunities for photography in this House when it does not meet. This spring we had a research day, which I hope will be an annual tradition, with the aim of highlighting the importance of research and science and at the same time giving the committees another opportunity to take part in current research findings. On Veteran Day on 29 May, we held for the first time a ceremony that I also hope will be able to be a yearly one, in honour of the veterans who have made international efforts and those who are still on mission. I would also like to mention the earlier voting time on Thursdays, which was set up on the initiative of the Gender Equality Group. Hopefully, this initiative will make it a little easier to combine parliamentary work and family life. Finally, I would like to mention that the Gender Equality Group has recently presented an interesting research study on leadership in Parliament. These were some examples of what has happened, perhaps in the shadow of a pandemic and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! Here and now there is a special parliamentary situation. But even otherwise, this time of year is always in a hurry. We stand in the middle of life, in the face of summer, in a time of joy and duty. But today it is also, in a few weeks' time, a year since we held a memorial ceremony in this House. We gathered then to honor and remember everything we had lost and all we had lost in the pandemic that is still sweeping the world. The losses we have suffered are still heavy on us, but as the light of this year returns to mild summer evenings, there has been hope – a hope that life will soon become a little more as we feel it and as we have missed it. On one level, this also affects the Riksdag. I hope that in the autumn we will be able to return to somewhat more common routines and forms of work, naturally in line with the current situation and in accordance with current recommendations. More concretely, more information will be available in August regarding the opening of the Parliamentary Session and how it should be organised. Before that, I would like to thank each of you, here in this House and around the country, for your work for Parliament and for Sweden, on the bench here or at the desk at home. I would also like to thank the President's Bureau, the group leaders and the members of the parliamentary board for good and constructive discussions on the often complex issues we have had to deal with. I would also like to extend my warm thanks to the Director of Parliament and every member of Parliament's administration. You have tirelessly taken on the many challenges that have fallen on your lot and, as always, have done so with commitment, joy and professionalism. With some strofes of Heidenstam I wish you all a nice summer. You wonderful summer day, which with your light fills me! The soft path I walk among the swarms of wild roses. Here the lake glistens in steep depths and mirrors rock and branches, and goats high on the mountain precipice go silently among dark ones. Irradiate the light of the smallest thickets, as your lands adorn! From you I came, towards you I go, winged by your happiness.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-202	Mr President, I would like to It will, on behalf of the interim president, thank the President and the three Vice-Presidents for their work in a year that has not looked like anything else, which has been difficult to implement in practical terms and which has also been difficult for many of us personally. This has made great demands on the Riksdag. We Members from all the parties in Parliament would like to thank the President and the Presidium for the work you have done. We also want to wish for a good summer, a happy summer, but we realize that it is so turbulent that we do not dare to take out anything in advance. We also realize that we may not be able to go on a summer vacation similar to any other summer vacation. When I would traditionally choose a small poem or summer psalm to send the speaker out in the summer heat, it was not a summer poem. We have already listened to that. This is more serious. I choose to borrow words from Rudyard Kipling – advice that he gave to his son in 1910. We can remember the times that came at that time. He sent with his son the following words, in my interpretation: If you can keep your mind when everyone around you loses their – and blames it on you, If you can trust yourself when everyone else doubts about you, But still let their doubts have their room; If you can wait and don't get tired of waiting, Or if you lie about you, don't answer them with the same coin, Or you're hated, don't lend yourself to hate, And yet don't give the impression that you're saintly and very wise, If you can dream – and do not make the dream your master ; If you can think – and do not make thoughts to your goal ; If you can face success or black despair, and treat both of these deceivers in the same way ; If you can bear that the very truth that you have spoken, was abused to lie, or see what you gave your life to destroyed, and yet bend and build it up again with worn tools : If you can collect all your winnings and risk it in a single dice throw, and lose it all and start over from the beginning, and never with a word regret your loss ; If you can force your heart itself, every nerve and late, to serve you long after they are dulled out, and harden out when nothing is in you anymore besides the will that bids them : ..................................................... If you can talk to all sorts of people and still retain the honor, or move among royalty – and yet do not lose the ability to communicate with ordinary people, if neither enemies nor considerate friends can harm you more, if everyone counts with you, yet none too much; if you can fill the merciless minute with sixty seconds content, then yours is the earth and all that's on it, and – which is more – then you are a man, my son!
i-9ec67756c72598a4-209	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the work within the EU and the UN to reach a long-term and sustainable solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The violence of civilian deaths, not least of children, that occurred during the May crisis was appalling and again demonstrated the importance of addressing the root causes of the conflict. As long as they are unsolved, there is a risk that the violence will flare up again as it has done so many times in the past. It is essential that the ceasefire reached on 21 May is stabilised. The departures from the ceasefire that have taken place are worrying and show how important it is for the international community to continue its efforts to consolidate the ceasefire. It is also essential to ensure humanitarian access in order to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza. Sweden has increased its humanitarian aid. The situation in Jerusalem, which has contributed to triggering the recent escalation of violence, remains very tense. The situation in large parts of the West Bank is apparently calmer but at the same time fragile. Responsible action is needed on all sides. All of this is important from an immediate perspective, but in the longer term, a process for resolving the conflict on the basis of international law and internationally established parameters is equally indispensable. Sweden and the EU are clear in their message about the importance of a negotiated two-state solution and an end to the occupation. The long-established position of the EU is that settlements, demolishments and evictions must cease. Israel's settlement policy, including evictions of Palestinians in occupied East Jerusalem, violates international law, undermines the two-state solution and contributes to an elevated level of conflict. The EU regularly calls on Israel to put an end to such measures in order to comply with its obligations as an occupying power. The EU is also clear that the status quo at Haram Sharif, Temple Mountain, must be maintained. It is true that Hamas has not recognised Israel and has clearly not been prepared to refrain from the use of force. This is a major obstacle to reaching a long-term and sustainable solution to the conflict. The EU, and therefore Sweden, classifies Hamas as a terrorist group. Sweden has always stood up for Israel's legitimate security needs. During the recent escalation of violence, we have been clear in condemning the indiscriminate rocket attacks on Israel. Rocket attacks or fire bombs by terrorist groups, such as Hamas in Gaza, against civilians in Israel are unacceptable and must stop once and for all. Israel has the right to defend itself, but must do its utmost to ensure that civilians are not affected. Humanitarian law and its rules on distinction, proportionality and prudence must be respected. Sweden's relations with both Israel and Palestine are important and something that the government has protected. Israel and Palestine are the two parties that must ultimately agree on a negotiated solution. For the international community to be able to help them reach it, good and constructive relations with both sides are needed.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-217	Madam President, I would like Sweden could be a clear voice for peace and coexistence in the Middle East. But Sweden is not with the current government. Our relations are such that no matter how much the Foreign Minister wants to reach Swedish diplomacy in Israel. Anyone who is not perceived to be able to talk to all parties also has little to add. Madam President, I would like Let me read you a quote: a country's security policy line is not something you experiment with. This is not something that, under hasty conditions, is being attempted to change in the parliamentary exercise treatment with conciliated announcements. If changes are to occur, they should be the result of thorough analysis work and have broad political support. ..................................................... So it sounds from the Social Democrats and the government when they have to face a parliamentary majority on another issue, the NATO option. They say there's a fear of a sharp throw. It is the same government as without anchoring or thorough analysis, and without seeking broad political support, unilaterally recognised Palestine as a state after the turn of the government in 2014. Then it will be difficult to contribute constructively when Israel is attacked with thousands of rockets from Gaza. At the same time, it will be difficult to emphasise Israel's obvious right to self-defense and to argue for moderation. The then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Margot Wallström, has tried to explain the government's unilateral action: acknowledgment, we wanted, firstly, to give our support to the moderate forces of the Palestinians, those who will govern the complex Palestinian state formation and those who will have to sit back at the negotiating table when the peace process is brought to life. Secondly, we wanted to facilitate a settlement by making the parties to these negotiations less equal. Thirdly, we hoped to contribute to more hope and confidence in the future among the young Palestinians and Israelis who are otherwise in danger of radicalising in the belief that alternatives to violence and status quo are lacking. ..................................................... What has happened since 2014? What has been fulfilled? How does Minister Linde view this in the light of the recent rocket rain of death from, in and around Gaza? In a debate seven years ago with Mrs Wallström, I stated that it is important that the steps taken by the government can be evaluated as politicians. My proposal for criteria was then and now reads: will we be able to see in two years' time that there have been fewer attacks on Israel by Gaza? Is it going to be that there's been a small number of deaths down there? Or will we see that there has been a reduction in the number of violations of the human rights and freedoms exercised by Palestinians against other Palestinians? Madam President, I would like The conflict is complicated. The events in Gaza highlight the challenges. Sweden could have been a force to be reckoned with. It disappeared in 2014 with this government's unilateral and abrupt roll through the recognition of Palestine and that we thereby fell out of what could have been a coherent European line within the European Union.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-225	Madam President, I would like The dramatic escalation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict began militarily, with Hamas and other terrorist groups starting in early May a massive rocket launch by Israel. The shootings were indiscriminate and mostly hit civilian targets. The rockets fired reached large parts of Israel, and some had a range corresponding to those rockets that have been used to deliver tactical nuclear weapons. It was therefore not a matter of home-made fireworks. In other words, we can only rejoice that Israel's very advanced anti-aircraft systems managed to shoot down several of the rockets. However, given the number of rockets fired, there is no anti-aircraft system in the world that can ensure that rockets do not escape and lead to civilian casualties. Like any sovereign state, Israel chose to respond to the attack on its territory and against its people. It was done by combating various military installations in Gaza. It should not have to be said at all that they have made use of a fundamental right to self-defence, a right we must understand and defend. The same fundamental right would have been used by any other democracy in the world if it had been subjected to military attacks. This is particularly true when, in this case, we are faced with pure terrorist attacks against civilians. Madam President, I would like The fact that Israel has invested so much in developing an extremely expensive but world-leading anti-aircraft system to counter attacks on its civilian population is a clear sign of Israel's continuing exposure. Furthermore, it is a clear sign of the country's defensive action, as we repeatedly see, notwithstanding the recurrent, widespread and indiscriminate attacks. Despite a continuous attack from Gaza, Israel also chose this time to refrain from going in with ground troops, which is another sign of the country's defensive strategy. With this in mind, we must not forget the fundamental responsibility of protecting their people as much as possible. In the case of prolonged and indiscriminate shootings, it is up to each country to act. Something else is completely unthinkable in a well-functioning democracy. Israel has responded and attacked military infrastructure of various kinds in Gaza. These attacks have in some cases also unfortunately included buildings that also have a civilian function. The fact remains, however, that Israel has done more than international law requires and, as far as possible, warned civilians who have resided in areas where Israel is fighting terrorists. There should reasonably be no doubt about this.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-230	Madam President, I would like There are those who describe Israel – the Palestine issue as the perfect conflict. The area has a history that is truly conflict-filled. It is the center of three world religions and historical power struggles and has been influenced by two world wars. Sweden and many Swedes have a long commitment to the area. Sweden has stood up for the State of Israel's right to its recognised territory, for its obvious right to defend itself and international law, like all other states. On this basis, it has also been clear that the Palestinians have their rights under international law. We welcomed the Oslo Agreement in September 1993, when what has seemed to have happened so long was unbelievable, when Rabin and Arafat exchanged mutual recognition and signed the agreement. It required leadership from the international community but also courage from leaders in Israel and Palestine. The aim was to find, on this basis, a peaceful solution to the conflict through agreements between Israel and Palestine on a two-state solution, on borders, land changes and refugees, and on Jerusalem as a corpus separatum, a capital of two states. The solutions for peace that many hoped for lost energy when Rabin was shot to death by a right-wing Israeli. The objective of two states for two peoples living in peace within safe and recognised borders has not been achieved. The occupation of the West Bank has continued. New battles have broken out. New attempts at peace agreements have been tried following the agreements with Egypt and Jordan. The latest agreement has also been reached with the Gulf states. The Center Party welcomes all peace agreements concluded over the years, but would like agreements to be concluded between Israel and Palestine as well. We dream that not only the Israelis will be allowed to live in democracy and freedom in the rule of law, but also the Palestinians, that both of them will have to avoid the fear of the next attack by extremists who want to shoot hope in shame. The terrorist organisation Hamas kidnaps every conflict with new missiles from Gaza. They know that Israel has not only the right to defend itself but also the right to do so. They know that they thereby expose people to increased suffering on both sides. They invest in terror and increased polarisation instead of solutions and democracy. These are the weapons of terror and extremists. What if hard - hit people lived in peace and freedom and had to develop their countries! But, Madam President, there is no light in the tunnel today. The pattern of lost opportunities continues. The conflicts are receiving new nutrition from the actions on both sides with new battles, new cease-fires and again new battles. The dreams of a great Israel are nourished from various quarters and, of course, increase the desperation of the Palestinians, who are being squeezed back. This is a way of polarization, hatred and fear of the other. Where there is no hope, desperation and hatred grow.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-236	Madam President, I would like The most prolonged ongoing conflict in the world is Israel's occupation of Palestine. Already through the process that led to the proclamation of the State of Israel in 1948, the breeding ground for today's conflict was created. Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were expelled from their homes. Since the six-day war of 1967 Israel has occupied the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and East Jerusalem in violation of international law. This is not a conflict between equals. Israel is one of the world's largest military powers, and its military apparatus is supported by the United States. The country, as an occupying power, also has a greater responsibility under international law. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the acquis of international law, including the prohibition of attacks on civilians, covers all parties. Israel's occupation does not in any way excuse rocket attacks on Israel, attacks on Israeli civilian targets or Palestinian groups committing human rights violations in Palestinian areas. Israel's violations of human rights, international law and the Palestinian people are not only continuing, but are becoming increasingly serious. The blockade of Gaza is progressing, as is the construction of the wall that has long been condemned by the UN. The number of illegal settlements on occupied land is growing unhindered, and the expulsion of Palestinians from East Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley is increasing. No peace seems to be in sight. Through its consistent violations of international law, Israel appears to be genuinely uninterested in abrogating the occupation of Palestinian land, which has been going on for decades. Here is the key to a lasting peace in the Middle East. The Left Party believes that Israel must withdraw from occupied territories, that the blockade of Gaza must be broken, that settlements must be evacuated and that a free and democratic Palestinian state should be established within the 1967 borders. The starting point of the Left Party is international law and respect for human rights. We therefore pay attention and condemn Israel's gross and widespread violations of human rights. We do so both inside and outside this Parliament. At the same time, we have not hesitated to distance ourselves from the violations of international law and human rights committed by Palestinian groups. The Left Party sees that Sweden can play a crucial role in a future peace and reconciliation process to build a Palestinian state. Sweden's recognition of Palestine as a state was an important step, and the government should be commended for that. Now Israeli politics has finally changed. The corrupt former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is now charged with three cases of corruption after confusing his own interests with the country of Israel. This has led to the formation of an unlikely coalition. Right, left, Jewish and Arab parties have formed an eight-party coalition. It is a welcome development, although the road to peace and an end to occupation are still long.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-243	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new Middle East policy. With the governments of recent years, our country's ability to play an active role in dialogue and peace has been destroyed. The one-eyedness and inability to see the real causes of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has resulted in obsolete politics and an inverse view of responsibility. We last saw it in connection with Hamas' outbreak of violence a few weeks ago. When 4 000 rockets were fired from Gaza against densely populated areas in Israel, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde announced that Israel has a special responsibility to end the violence and armed conflict. When the attacks on civilians increased and Israel, with the support of self-defence, knocked out military targets in Gaza, the Foreign Minister said that pressure must increase on both parties. Democratic Israel, according to the Swedish Government's view, is a party that should be compared to a brutal terrorist organisation. Madam President, I would like When Hamas attacked Israel in the summer of 2014, Swedish Radio reported as follows: It is easy to tighten your mouth about this. But just like one-eyed media representatives, the government lives in the notion that Israel is automatically responsible for what is happening. Like a mantra, it is repeated that the occupation is the cause of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, despite the fact that the war of the Arab world against Israel was waged in 1948 and 1967 before there was any occupation. The goal then was the same as today's goal, to wipe out Israel. Madam President, I would like The deep hatred of the Jewish people and the Jewish state is the cause of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Both for this fact and for the deep responsibility of the Palestinian leadership, the government closes its eyes. This leads, Madam President, to the skewed views that have for far too long marked Swedish Middle East policy.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-248	Madam President, I would like What we saw a few months ago was how the Hamas of terror sprinkled thousands of rockets into Israel. But can think about it in the context of Sweden's recognition of Palestine. If you want to form a state, you can also start by acting like a state is expected to do. In practice, there are two Palestine today. There is a Palestine in the West Bank, and there is a Palestine in the Gaza Strip. In one Palestine elections have not been held for 15 years, and in the other Palestine, an organisation that Sweden and the European Union have labeled as a terrorist organisation. The outlook thus looks rather tough for Palestine to become a democratic state. Yet that is what we are striving for. We want a two-state solution – in any case, we want it from the Liberals – where a democratic Palestine can live side by side with Israel. However, that is not really what Hamas wants. Hamas wants Palestine to be on top of Israel and the Jews to be driven out into the Mediterranean. Israel left the Gaza Strip in 2005. What then happened was that something good could have been done on the Gaza Strip and built it up into something good. Instead, Hamas did just the opposite. The whole economy has been steered into a war economy. Instead of building houses, you dig tunnels. Instead of spending the money on investing in education and the future of Palestinian youth, the money is used to buy weapons and start new wars. The entire operation of Hamas is focused on starting wars to wipe out the state of Israel. It's not an actor for peace. In fact, Madam President, what we are now seeing will be repeated in the future time and again as long as Hamas remains in power in the Gaza Strip. This is really the only scenario that can be seen if Hamas is still in power. Every three years, every two years, or every five years, there is a conflict of this kind with rocket rain where Israel defends itself. Then Hamas rebuilds, digs new tunnels, and imports new weapons to start the next war. Israel must then hope that it can cope with its technical advantage and defend itself. Of course, this is not a sustainable order at all. Unfortunately, however, this is what the situation is now.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-256	Madam President, I would like In Sweden today we face a national challenge in the form of a government crisis. While it is not a desirable development, it follows all the constitutional rules we have. Thanks to the democratic society in which we live, it does not mean war, conflict or violence, but possibly concern. We must work actively to ensure that the same democratic conditions and conditions exist in other countries and also in the Middle East. Unfortunately, the Middle East is a region with few and inadequate democracies, and even the most democratic states do not always respect everyone's equal rights. In those countries, it is particularly important that Sweden contributes, for example, long-term aid to strengthen democracy and human rights. In this, Sweden will of course also support democratic elections, peace processes and mediation in the region. The recent armed conflict between Israel and Palestine, like all other wars and conflicts, has mainly affected women and children. We have been confronted with terrible news that up to sixty children have been killed. In such a situation, there is no time to withdraw the support you can give. We must be available in the most vulnerable parts of the world if we want more children to be able to go to school, more women to be involved in the construction of society and children to have a belief in the future. Sweden's development work – our support for conflict victims – should be characterised by a rights perspective and by vulnerable people's perspectives on development. The perspective of rights means that human rights and democracy should be seen as fundamental for development. It is difficult to see how peaceful development would benefit if we strangle support, for example in Palestine, when there is a chance to strengthen peaceful development if we start from international law. Nevertheless, I would like to believe, even though we have different views on the conflict, that we in this House are united in wanting to give children and young people a belief in the future.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-261	Madam President, I would like It is essential to combat forces that advocate violence, extremism and anti-Semitism. These are expectations that we have on all countries. Sweden has been clear in its dialogue with the Palestinian Government on the importance of disassociating itself from violence, hate speech and sedition. Similarly, the racist hate speech expressed during the flag march of the far right Israelis in East Jerusalem the other week is reprehensible. That is something that my new Israeli colleague, Mr Lapid, has also clearly indicated. The Palestinian leadership in Ramallah has long recognized Israel's right to exist. It has made a commitment not to use violence in its efforts to find a solution to the conflict. We expect it to continue to comply with these commitments. In order to help resolve the conflict, we have supported the good forces in Palestine, those working for peace, democratic development and respect for human rights. Swedish aid to Palestine is intended to do just that. The fact that Palestinian elections have not taken place since 2006 is deeply problematic and regrettable. The Palestinian people have the right to make their voice heard. Sweden has stated that free and fair elections should be held as soon as possible and that Israel must fulfil its obligation under the Oslo Agreement to assist with the conduct of the elections in East Jerusalem. The existence of anti-Semitism is an abominable reality. It is found both in Palestine and in our own country and in other parts of the world. The escalation of violence in Israel and Palestine in May resulted in the expression of anti-Semitism. I agree with the Prime Minister that this is sad, unacceptable and does not have a place in our society. Criticising the behaviour of the State of Israel is legitimate, as is criticism of any other state when justified. To express hatred of Jews and deny the state of Israel's right to exist is not. Anti-Semitism should be condemned wherever and whenever it is expressed and needs to be combated through consistent, systematic and sustained work. The Prime Minister has invited Malmö International Forum for Remembrance of the Holocaust and Combating Anti-Semitism on 13 October this year.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-269	Madam President, I would like I would first like to make a little clarification: I do not fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in her speech, despite the fact that this was the case. I tried to ask for the floor but failed in the first part. On the other hand, I can agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Madam President, in the second part: it is extremely important that we can be a credible partner both with Israel and with Palestine. That is why, Madam President, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: is the current Swedish Government perceived after the recognition of Palestine in 2014 as a credible voice in the conflict by Israel? Madam President, I would like It is also excellent that the Minister for Foreign Affairs reminds us of the important meeting that will be held in Malmö. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs in any way that Social Democrats want to reflect on the deep accusations that exist against not least SSU in Malmö for anti-sionist activities with slogans that have been chanted in the first May. What does the Secretary of State say about that?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-273	Madam President, I would like I believe that Israel regards Sweden as an important partner. Last week there was an extremely constructive conversation with Israel's new President Isaac Herzog, whom I personally know very well for many years. He just expressed the good cooperation they have had with both the Prime Minister and with me, which I hope will continue. Within a short time, Cabinet Secretary Robert Rydberg will be going to Israel for talks. As Mr Wallmark knows, I was also as Minister of Trade in Israel and had constructive talks. There are many different and very different views among the parties in Israel, so there are certainly those who have different views on Sweden's role, both positive and negative – just as it should be in a democracy.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-276	Madam President, I would like For a variety of reasons, we hope for a new government, whether this year or after the 2022 general elections. I hope that a new government will also have a new policy whereby the Swedish Foreign Minister makes an official visit to Israel. Madam President, I would like I hope that the Foreign Minister will use his second reply to comment precisely on the criticism specifically directed at Social Democrats in general and SSU in particular in Malmö. I think it is important that we show our third largest city on these issues. Not least, there is a great and good legacy from the Social Democrats from Göran Persson's time, but it has been wasted through slogans in the first May speech in Malmö. Finally, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs said that recognition in 2014 was an energy injection into the halted peace process. How would the current Foreign Minister like to review his predecessor's opinion?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-279	Madam President, I would like Wherever anti-Semitism is pronounced or carried out, it is, of course, totally reprehensible. Whether it is in youth organisations, in ordinary organisations or in states, it is always just as reprehensible. There is only one clear answer: it is never acceptable. As far as the recognition of Palestine is concerned, of course, I still support it. The government has considered that the international law criteria for the recognition of Palestine have been met despite the prolonged occupation. With recognition, Sweden joined a majority; it is over 130 countries that have recognised Palestine. I would like to say that developments since 2014 have as much to do with the Israeli Government as with our possible recognition.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-282	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for marking so clearly against anti-Semitism and Israeli interventions. I think it was a very sharp speech. These may be needed, not least in view of the recurrent finds of Social Democrats expressing themselves anti-Semitic or anti-Israeli. It is actually action that matters, and not words. In view of this, I wonder: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that the Palestinian side has paid salaries for terrorism? This is a question that we have repeatedly raised. The Minister for Foreign Affairs herself has considered these as a form of social assistance, as she said at a meeting in 2020 with the Swedish Friendship Federation – Israel.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-284	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is both action and words that matter, which should perhaps cause many of Markus Wiechels's party colleagues to think too many times about, not least on these issues. On the issue of wages, benefits paid, social benefits or whatever it is for families where the man is in prison, it was about when a man, a breadwinner, is in prison for something you cannot throw the family out on the street. Then the family, the mother and the children, get money from the state. Of course, the fact that there would then be more money if you have committed certain terrible crimes is not a good thing. But I cannot agree that it is wrong to provide support to families where the breadwinner disappears.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-287	Madam President, I would like This support clearly shows what kind of state we are dealing with. You reward terrorists, and the reward is higher the grosser the crimes they have committed. But it's not just about this. We have Israel, which is a democracy that protects civilians and tries to defend itself against terrorist attacks. Hamas and other terrorist groups attack, and Israel responds. In this connection, the Minister for Foreign Affairs called for restraint. She felt that Israel had a special responsibility. Madam President, I would like How can a democratic state that is attacked by terrorists have a special responsibility? And why should it act with restraint when trying to defend its civilians?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-290	Madam President, I would like There can be no doubt whatsoever about the strong condemnation that I have made countless times with regard to the indiscriminate rocket attacks on Israel. This must be stopped, and it must be stopped at once. It must never happen again. At the same time, when Israel defends itself, to which it is entitled, it must do its utmost to prevent civilians from being affected. These are the rules of humanitarian law. It is a matter of distinction, proportionality and prudence, which must be respected. There's nothing strange about that.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-292	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to welcome the clear language used by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in terms of the importance and accuracy of combating anti-Semitism and ensuring that it never takes hold again. This applies not least in Sweden and in Europe. The Center Party wants to see a Palestinian state, but we have clearly criticised the forms of this and the way in which the government deals with it. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether there was a government plan for recognition. How would this generate impact in the area? What was the plan? And were there talks before – for example with the Obama representation, which then seemed, and with EU countries, with which we are cooperating – to have a common position?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-295	Madam President, I would like The idea was precisely what my predecessor said: in order to have a two-state solution, you need two states. And for that to become a reality, one must have recognition of the other state, Palestine. In turn, it can give hope to young people in Palestine, not least, that there is a real possibility for two states – not only one state but also a Palestine that could live with Israel within safe and recognised borders. That's the idea. Then, of course, there were a lot of conversations in those years just before our confession. There were many confessions in the 80s and 90s and so on. As I said before, over 130 countries have recognised Palestine. Then not everyone came to the same conclusion as us, that they would actually do it then. There are other countries that continue to discuss it.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-297	Madam President, I would like It is an important instrument at the disposal of the government, and it is clear that using this instrument is vitally important for the government to ensure that it plays right and achieves its goal. If there is no plan, but it comes as a flash from a clear sky, then it is just a noise that is heard, Madam President.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-298	Madam President, I would like It certainly did not come as a flash from the clear sky. My party the Social Democrats had been talking for years about the recognition of Palestine. We had told our Israeli interlocutors, we had told the Palestinians and we had told everyone in the European circle that if we won the elections we would recognise Palestine. And we did. It is not always possible to carry out what has been set out, but in this case we thought it was reasonable. We felt that the international law criteria for the recognition of Palestine were met, and we joined a majority of the world's countries, over 130 of them, which have recognised Palestine. However, I can say that we had believed, not least after the talks that we had and which I myself had in a different capacity, that more countries within Europe than those who had already recognised Palestine would follow our example.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-301	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in this debate, particularly that of anti-Semitism. The bombing of Gaza by the Israeli military led to the death of 256, of which 66 children. This shows the military's lack of understanding of international law and human rights. That is why the outside world must now increase the pressure on those responsible in the Israeli military. Sweden today has too close ties with the Israeli military, mainly through our sent military attaché in Tel Aviv, but also through the fact that we have historically allowed Israel to test drones in Northern Vidsel. The EU countries are still today major exporters of arms to the IDF, weapons used on a daily basis to oppress the Palestinian people. It is therefore time for Sweden to cut the ties with Israel's military. This could easily be done by calling home the defence attaché, stopping allowing Israel to test drones and imposing an arms embargo on Israel at EU level.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-306	Madam President, I would like Sweden has no military cooperation with Israel, and there are no military drones being tested in Sweden. In addition, I think it is good to have defence attachés around, not least because they can give reports home on the state of the military, information on defence and military and so on. I cannot see that it would be a negative thing for us to get that kind of information from Israel out of our own defence attaché. On the contrary, I think it is positive.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-309	Madam President, I would like If you read the Swedish Armed Forces' and the FRA's description of what a military attaché does, that is what Ann Linde says, that is to report on the state of the military issues, and to engage in dialogue with the countries in the region where you are located and thereby have a military exchange. This means that the military attaché in Tel Aviv is too close to the Israeli military. You could have this kind of information anyway, without having a military attaché in place. It is also the case that Sweden has historically allowed Israel to test drones, and we know that they have been used in the previous wars in Gaza. This means that Sweden within the EU community, for example, needs to emphasise the importance of stopping arms exports to Israel in order to demonstrate that the EU is serious about wanting a peaceful two-state solution. Otherwise, however, I and the Minister for Foreign Affairs broadly agree on the direction of Sweden's Palestinian policy.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-313	Madam President, I would like Think, I think exactly the opposite of Håkan Svenneling here. I think it's great if our defence attaché has dialogues and talks also with personnel from the defence or military parts of Israel and thus can talk about what line Sweden has, how we view the issues such as the rules of humanitarian law and everything possible and get answers that can be reported home. I do not think it is a negative thing. On the contrary, I think it is very positive, and as I said before: we have no military cooperation with Israel in any way, through military drones in Norrland or anything like that.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-315	Madam President, I would like In order for a two-state solution to be possible, demands have been made for the Palestinian Constitution, the PLO Charter, to be amended so that the paragraphs dealing with an erasure of the State of Israel are deleted. The deletion of these paragraphs was promised by Yassir Arafat in connection with the Oslo Accord in 1993. This message was central both to Israel and to the outside world. A revised PLO charter was, as it were, the precondition for negotiations.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-318	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that Lars Adaktusson reads the PLO statutes more than I do. Actually, I have no idea what it says. Of course, if there is any mention of annihilation of the state of Israel, we are against it.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-319	Madam President, I would like The fact is that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the articles on the destruction of Israel. A report commissioned by the Christian Democrats from the Parliamentary Investigation Service states that the articles are deemed to have been declared repealed. However, the investigation services have not been able to find any information on an amended or revised version of the Statutes. Similar responses come from the prestigious Palestinian organisation Passia, which states that revised statutes do not exist. If the leadership of the PLO and Fatah have deleted the paragraphs on the eradication of Israel, there should obviously be revised statutes confirming this. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see that this is not the case?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-323	Madam President, I would like I think it makes perfect sense. Of course, if the erasure of the State of Israel has been removed, which should be a matter of course, it must be seen in the statutes. I totally agree with Lars Adaktusson.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-324	Madam President, I would like Two and a half years ago, a decision was made by a Swedish authority, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, on the award of state grants to the Social Democrats Youth Association SSU. In their decision, the Authority makes the assessment that SSU meets the requirements to be granted a state grant for the 2019 grant year. However, the agency excludes the associations belonging to the Skåne district, as the agency sees serious deficiencies in the 2017 base year for this district. The shortcomings concern democratic building (including the management of district-year congresses and board work). The agency also sees shortcomings among representatives in the district regarding the ideas of democracy, including gender equality and the prohibition of discrimination. ..................................................... This is about the recurring alarms about anti-Semitism within the SSU. Can the Social Democrats be credible in these matters when such accusations exist?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-326	Madam President, I would like The SSU is not anti-Semitic. There have been cases where individual districts or individuals have expressed themselves anti-Semitic, but the government has condemned this in all its forms. We reject all forms of racism and anti-Semitism wherever it is put forward and by anyone. But to say that the SSU is anti-Semitic is to go far too far, and I cannot accept that. Sweden is working on a broad front to systematically counteract anti-Semitism and secure the memory of the Holocaust, and we have decided to implement a large number of measures to prevent and counteract anti-Semitism. The government has, among other things, increased the appropriations for security-enhancing measures for the Jewish groups in Sweden. As I said, the Prime Minister has invited the Malmö International Forum for Remembrance of the Holocaust and Combating Anti-Semitism.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-328	Madam President, I would like Much of what Ann Linde has listed here is good, for example, to strengthen the protection of Jewish institutions. At the same time, however, the fact remains that a Swedish authority has reduced the state grant to the Youth League of the Social Democrats due to allegations of anti-Semitism in the district of Skåne. It's a fact. I myself am the old chairman of the Liberal Youth League. I know more than well that there are lots of talented young sossos who are not anti-Semites. I'm not saying everyone is. But it says something about a clearly problematic internal culture and attitude if you have that kind of problem within the SSU. In the long run, this makes it difficult for Sweden – as it is the youth federation of the government party – to be credible in the conflict with all parties.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-331	Madam President, I would like The Swedish authorities are functioning well. As soon as they see anti-Semitism, they react and remove the contributions where they have occurred, and that is very good. To claim that what some have said in a district in a youth union would affect Sweden's relationship with Israel is not serious. I understand that Fredrik Malm wants to point this out as if it were a major problem for Sweden, that it would not be enough for us to condemn anti-Semitism and have activities against anti-Semitism. He always raises this issue rather than focusing on something where our authorities have reacted vigorously. It's just party politics and actually a little unworthy.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-332	Madam President, I would like It has been pointed out by several speakers that a two-state solution is important. I also believe that there is a broad consensus in the House in the Swedish Parliament to advocate this solution. On the other hand, there is no broad support for the idea of recognising Palestine as a state in the way that was done. That is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated earlier that attempts were made to bring more EU countries along. But it failed. Sweden made this recognition unilaterally. The basic conditions for the recognition in 2014 were that it was done unilaterally by the government. It was not based on a thorough analysis work, but it was a sharp throw in relation to the Swedish line and there was not a broad political support. Madam President, I would like I would argue that the last time Sweden seriously tried to contribute to the important peace process in the Middle East was in fact in 2000 under Göran Persson in connection with the so-called Harpsund talks. It is not often that I long back to Göran Persson's time as Prime Minister, but in this case I do. Since then, Sweden has not played a role. We could do it, but we won't do it. Madam President, I would like On my bench is Johan Berggren's new book The Perfect Conflict, which is about Israel and Palestine. The book has been printed in a second edition and is very interesting. It is highly recommended for reading. He lists five criteria in order to be able to be a party, namely a personal commitment, it has been with Göran Persson for example, a clear strategy, it was missing in connection with recognition, international cooperation, we left the EU behind us, good relations with Israel, which I say we do not have, and Israeli and Palestinian interest in Sweden playing a role. All five criteria should be met, and they are not met by a government that chooses the path of unilateralism.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-337	Madam President, I would like Before I forget, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for responding to the request of SD and KD to hold this important debate. In principle, war always leads to victims, both military and civilian. That is precisely why military violence should be avoided at the longest. It can be said over and over again. I am therefore the first to deplore civilian victims, regardless of who is affected. Every civilian victim is a tragedy. For every death in a military conflict there are relatives and a society that is affected. We will, and we must never forget. Just as we never forget the victims of death in conflict, we must be able to put them in perspective. As long as Sweden, Israel or any other state has a military defence, it means that we must be prepared to use the defence when we are subjected to aggression, especially if the aggression comes from terrorists who do not respect international law or civilian victims, be they Israelis, Palestinians or anyone else. Madam President, I would like That is precisely why I cannot stop being surprised at what statements I see from a number of politicians as soon as Israel chooses to defend itself against terrorist attacks. This was particularly evident in connection with the rocket attacks in May. In fact, it is absolutely incredible that, in connection with these attacks, politicians had to blame the victims and almost defend the perpetrators. Even more remarkable is the fact that Sweden's own Foreign Minister calls Israel for restraint while thousands of rockets rain over the country and half the population, women and children, are forced to sleep in shelters. Having said that, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the chamber staff, colleagues and Presidents for the past year and wish everyone a pleasant summer.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-342	Madam President, I would like The pattern of lost opportunities continues. The conflicts are receiving new nourishment from the actions on both sides. Both Palestinians and Israelis have seen how settlements are growing and the space for Palestinians is shrinking. Everyone has a choice to make. It is about polarization, hatred and fear of the other or hope for a better future. Madam President, I would like Swedish governments and Swedes, such as Bernadotte, have previously worked for solutions, and of course a Swedish government can and will seek to contribute. However, as has been shown by previous replicas, we in the Center Party have noted that the government Löfven lost many opportunities by the way they crept in when, like lightning from the clear sky, they recognized Palestine. As a result, the government's capabilities have been wasted beyond the seat of the Security Council. It regrets the Center Party, and for that the government deserves clear criticism – then and now. But regardless of this, the possibilities for solutions are small. This would require clear leadership for peace on the part of both parties – courage on the part of both parties. This obviously also requires the strongest party to show that they are serious. The policy of residence, evictions and annexation must stop. We're not there today, I'm afraid. What happened in 1993 could happen again. We know the alternative well, i.e. continued violence, oppression or ethnic cleansing, or an Israel with equal rights for all, regardless of religion, ethnicity and so on. I have met many good forces in both Israel and Palestine. So let us be led by hope for a solution to the long conflict, for all Israelis, for all Palestinians, for their children and grandchildren.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-347	Madam President, I would like I have a lot of simultaneous capacity right now. I agree with much of what Kerstin Lundgren says. There is much about Israel and Palestine on which the Left Party and the Center Party agree. I had the opportunity to travel with two nice colleagues to Kerstin Lundgren to Israel and Palestine just before the pandemic broke out. There we saw the consequences of the occupation – the systematic terror that meets Palestinians every day. But we also met civilian Israelis who had built shelters in their own homes to protect themselves from possible rocket attacks from Hamas. It is a majority of the Left Party, the Government and the Center Party that makes Sweden still a major contributor to the refugee aid UNRWA and that makes Sweden's support for a two-state solution strong. But this line is constantly challenged by the right to the right of Kerstin Lundgren; we see that not least in this debate. I wonder what the Center Party considers to be the most important measures to protect the Swedish Palestinian aid and to promote a peaceful two-state solution.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-352	Madam President, I would like Of course, we need a majority in this House to ensure that there are conditions for continued support. It is a contribution, because regardless of support and whether Håkan Svenneling or anyone else would rule there are no opportunities to achieve peace from our horizon or a solution to the conflict. It takes will in place. It takes courage and leadership on both the Palestinian and the Israeli sides to achieve results. From our side, we find it interesting to read the book that Hans Wallmark referred to earlier. It shows that UNRWA has a history linked to, among other things, Bernadottes's work on Palestinian refugees.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-355	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Kerstin Lundgren points out and says. In fact, we are now seeing a renewal of Israeli policy with a new coalition that hopefully invites the Foreign Minister to Israel to renew the dialogue with Sweden that has existed historically. But hopefully Sweden can also help to pressure Israel but also the Palestinian parties so that new presidential and parliamentary elections can be held. It is important that Palestinian leadership is renewed. It is an old gang that was involved in the signing of the Oslo Agreement and has made important efforts for peaceful solutions, but it is to a great extent a tired leadership that no longer has the confidence of the people to the same extent. Therefore, Sweden needs to be an active party based on the parliamentary support that I believe is here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-359	Madam President, I would like Yes, after several elections – extra elections, re-elections – Israel has had a motley government. We have seen that extreme forces on the outer edges prevent solutions, and we hope that forces will now be found on both sides that have the courage and energy to seek solutions. Of course, you have to invest in your own people for solutions. There are forces that want this. On the Palestinian side, there is absolutely a need for elections and new leadership. There is no power, and there is no faith in the people for a solution with current leadership.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-361	Madam President, I would like The bombings of Gaza by the Israeli military and the rockets against Israeli civilians from the Hamas terrorist group came at an appropriate time for both parties. Through the war, Netanyahu was stopping the possibility for the opposition to form a new government in Israel. But it is also important to state that the action of Israel's military and police forces with fences around the Damascus gate, storms of the religious site al-Aqsamosque and expulsions of Palestinian families from East Jerusalem were a fund of events that increased the level of conflict at the end of the religious celebration Ramadan. Adding to this the disappointment of the cancelled Palestinian parliamentary elections, it is clear that Israel's occupation of Palestine is the basis of today's problems and challenges. It has now been a long time since the Palestinians were able to vote their leaders out. This year, there must be new parliamentary and presidential elections in Palestine, because one can be almost as old as I – 34 years – and never have voted in a Palestinian election. The Palestinian administration with President Abbas bears a heavy responsibility for this situation. But the Israeli occupation is also putting a stop to it, partly by holding leading Palestinian politicians in prison and partly by making elections in East Jerusalem more difficult. The pressure of the world on both Palestine and Israel must be crucial for Palestinian elections to be held this year. At the same time, we are in an interesting new political situation with a new Israeli government that provides an opportunity for the Swedish government to renew its commitment to a two-state solution and to end the world's longest occupation. The new government is in many ways an unlikely coalition but also a coalition that has the opportunity to take the country of Israel into a new political position. We have seen it happen in Iceland, for example, when the counterparts of the Left Party, the Moderates and the Center Party made arrangements to remove corrupt politicians. I believe that this can also happen in Israel and that it will create opportunities for a peace process in the future. I hope that Sweden can contribute to this.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-367	Madam President, I would like We have been told repeatedly that Israel bears responsibility for the attacks on Gaza and how civilians are affected. As I mentioned earlier, I am the first to regret the fact that civilians have been affected in this terrible conflict. But Håkan Svenneling also said that the responsible Israeli politicians would be held accountable for these attacks. What I wonder, Madam President, is what they should be held accountable for. What they have been doing is actually defending their people. What they have done is supported in the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Convention, which states that it is indeed possible to attack areas or civil buildings that effectively contribute to the implementation of military operations. Then they're legitimate targets. What are these politicians to be held accountable for?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-369	Madam President, I would like I want to correct Markus Wiechel – I said those responsible in the military. One can see that politicians are in some sense responsible for what they say to the military to do, but what I mean is of course that if war crimes have been committed, they should be investigated and those responsible held accountable. For a long time Israel has been opposed to the international community investigating events during the country's time as an occupying power and also the case of Gaza, where it has a blockade and has thereby shut down 2 million people in an area the size of Orust in Sweden. Israel must allow independent observers to come in and review. And when, for example, media houses with international press such as al-Jazira and Associated Press get bombed, you have to show proof that they are military targets, because we can see that when you kill 256 civilians and 66 children you don't just hit military targets. It will also kill the people of Gaza.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-372	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course war crimes should be combated. Any war crimes should be investigated regardless of where they occur. In this case, however, we have clearly seen that the undemocratic and deeply unsympathetic terrorist group Hamas and several groups have fired huge amounts of rockets against Israel, and they completely ignore where they are hitting. I know Håkan Svenneling also condemns this, but how would Håkan Svenneling and the Left want Israel to respond to that? In fact, buildings have been attacked precisely because they have been used as military bases in one way or another. What is the indication that the Israeli military has not done so?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-375	Madam President, I would like The crimes committed by Hamas are the sending of rockets from Gaza against civilian Israelis because they cannot be targeted at military targets, which would have been okay under international law. Instead, you meet hello wildly. Therefore, we are incredibly happy that Iron Dome exists and that so many of the massive amount of rockets that Hamas sends against Israel are shot down. According to international law, people have the right to defend themselves proportionately, that is to say, they must weigh civil and military objectives. This is part of Hamas' strategy, and that is also why, I believe, they cannot be defeated militarily. Had Hamas been able to defeat militarily, one of the world's largest military powers would have already done so, but that is not possible. That is why we must break the blockade of Gaza and give Gaza residents alternatives other than supporting a terrorist organisation such as Hamas. Today, however, Hamas is ruling because the outside world has not been able to put this pressure on Israel.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-378	Madam President, I would like When the heinous terrorist attacks in France occurred in 2015, 12 people were killed and 11 injured. We all remember the murders at the editorial board of Charlie Hebdo. We remember the hostage drama in East Paris and the days of dramatic hunting, which ended with the perpetrators being shot to death by the police. Last month Israel suffered Islamic terror. Hamas fired over 4,000 rockets to spread terror and murder innocent people. Does the Left Party consider that there is a difference between the right of Israel and the right of France to defend themselves against terror?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-381	Madam President, I would like According to international law, there is a right to defend oneself proportionately, i.e. that one must be able to identify that it is a military target one meets. This is the challenge in such a densely populated and small area as the Gaza Strip, where 2 million people live. In practice, therefore, it is impossible to know that civilians are not harmed when attacking legitimate targets. This is also part of Hamas' strategy. That is why I believe that both Israel and the outside world need a different strategy for the people of Gaza to have a better life situation. Today, you may be twelve years old and have experienced four wars. You don't have clean water daily, you don't have sewers and it's hard to make a living – precisely because the blockade is there. I believe that we must focus on the opportunities for the people of Gaza to live in dignity. Then we will also stop the recruitment of radicalized people to Hamas.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-384	Madam President, I would like I've been to Gaza and seen what it looks like. I see the needs that Håkan Svenneling is talking about – there is no doubt about that. But this is a completely different matter, namely that the Left Party always sets out a particular yardstick when it comes to Israel. What applies to other countries does not apply to Israel. When the rockets rain over Israeli cities and hundreds of thousands of inhabitants are chased down into shelters, the Left sees Israeli violations of international law – because Israel is doing as France did in 2015, that is, using its right to self-defense. When the terror hit Paris, Svenneling's party leader spoke of a disgusting deed. When Tel Aviv is hit, the reaction of the party leader is that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs must lecture the Israeli ambassador. The anti-Israeli attitude, Madam President, is in the DNA of the Left Party.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-387	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson is wrong, and I'll explain why. There is a very big difference between Israel and Hamas. Israel is a state – a democratic state with free and fair elections where you can elect your leaders. This means that they also have ambassadors in Sweden. I think it is reasonable to call them if there are air raids on an area where there are 2 million people, where we can ultimately count to 256 deaths, 66 of which – certainly not Hamasters. At the same time, in Hamas, we have a terrorist organization that violates international law by indiscriminately sending rockets against Israel, as Lars Adaktusson describes. Most of them are turned down by Iron Dome, and I'm grateful for that. Otherwise, the death toll on the Israeli side would have been higher. As for those who died on the Israeli side, it is about the same kind of cruelty that characterises this whole conflict, but the occupation is the basis.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-389	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it sounds like relations between Sweden and Israel are problem-free. In fact, they're fucked at the bottom. Of the 27 foreign ministers of the EU countries, Ann Linde is the only one who is not welcome in the only democracy in the Middle East. Sweden's relations with Israel must be restored. For seven years the government has failed to do so. At the same time, aid to Palestinian areas must be changed. For too long aid money has been used to spread anti-Semitism and hatred against Israel. For too long, the Palestinian Authority has paid convicted terrorists and their families. Until terrorist aid and anti-Semitism are stopped, aid to Palestinian areas must be frozen. Madam President, I would like Of course we will assist the Palestinian people. Over the years, the Palestinians have suffered serious wrongs. Responsibility for this falls heavily on corrupt Palestinian leaders who have consistently put a stop to democratisation and peace. From the British Peel Commission's proposal of 1936 to the United Nations Plan of Division in 1947 and the recent peace initiative, Palestinian leaders have said no to settlements with Israel. Without an increase in political pressure on this leadership, there will be no change. To keep the regime in Ramallah under the arms of the Swedish government is not to help. It is to betray the Palestinian people.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-394	Madam President, I would like For a long time many have compared the way in which the Israeli Government and its authorities divide people because of origin with the apartheid system in South Africa. Yet the human rights organisation Human Rights Watch's judicial review of Israel's laws, which states that they resemble apartheid, came down forcefully. Talking about apartheid aims to demonstrate the systematic nature of the oppression that meets the Palestinians daily in their lives. I remember when I passed through checkpoints in Palestine. It's like being a cattle animal. You get pushed through a tight checkpoint where you play high music, the same song that goes on repeat to drive you crazy. We can look at the discrimination faced by Arabs living in Israel and being Israeli citizens. They are structurally discriminated against by giving priority to their societies. Roads are not being upgraded, and once you have turned into an Arab dominated area, you will notice the difference compared to an Israeli. This creates divisions even in Israel. Why doesn't Lars Adaktusson see this systematic repression of Palestinians?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-398	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling sounds like the most extreme Palestinian groupings, which usually use the same terminology and talk about Israel as an apartheid state. The report mentioned by Håkan Svenneling is far from uncontroversial. Even the former head of Human Rights Watch has acknowledged that the organisation has a major problem of impartiality in relation to this conflict, as this report certainly expresses. If you compare democratic Israel with an apartheid state, you reduce the system that plagued the people of South Africa for such a long time. I think it's really, really bad.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-401	Madam President, I would like Domestic violence is a daily threat to Palestinians in the West Bank. Getting the house demolished or being forced out of their homes is threatening and affecting many Palestinian families. It is this systematic repression that the occupation brings. Today, many bourgeois politicians have talked about SSU and things that have happened in Sweden. However, we talk far too little about the violence that has taken place within Israel, between Palestinians and Israelis, both of whom are Israeli citizens. That is what is new about what has happened this spring. I am concerned about the violence that has spread. I believe that this is due to the invigoration that has taken place during Netanyahus's time in power as Prime Minister. Hopefully, it will end now. The new broad coalition of both Jewish and Arab parties can create a precondition for reconciliation and in the future peace and peace agreements. However, if we are to achieve this, we must also see the structural repression that affects Palestinians on a daily basis.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-404	Madam President, I would like I share the hope of the new Israeli Government. I also hope that it will succeed. In fact, I also believe that there are some conditions for this, despite the fact that it is an unusually broad coalition for Israeli relations as well. But there is a clear dividing line between me and Håkan Svenneling – yes, there are several, but one is very clear – and that is that Håkan Svenneling does not see Israel's vulnerability. The Left Party does not see that Israel is being attacked by more or less brutal dictatorships that surround the country with half a billion people. The country is attacked or threatened by some of the world's worst terrorist organisations. It places some demands on safety, of course. There must, of course, be an understanding of respect for human rights, but Israel must defend itself. That is the basis of the situation we have.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-406	Madam President, I would like One of the main threats to future peace and one of the main catalysts of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is another country in the Middle East region, Iran. The Iranian regime hangs people in cranes. You put electrocution under the feet of your critics, and you torture the inhabitants of Evin prison in Tehran. Please note that this does Iran without nuclear weapons at its disposal. We can only speculate on what the Iranian regime would be able to do if it were also to have nuclear weapons, which it is striving for. Madam President, I would like The world's worst regimes should not sit on the world's most dangerous weapons. Iran has repeatedly, year after year and every day threatened to wipe out Israel. They are even trying to acquire nuclear weapons, probably for this purpose, among other things. The outside world must also understand that if every day, year after year, and time after time, someone threatens to wipe someone out or kill someone, they can also be serious about it. This has not really been understood by the outside world, but it has been thought that it is only empty rhetoric from the Iranian regime. But it must be understood that for Israel it is quite essential whether it is empty rhetoric or serious. This is about the existence and future survival of the state. If you want to seek peace between Israel and the Palestinians and a two-state solution, as most people want, you have to see that it will be virtually impossible to achieve as long as the Iranian regime acts in the way it does and with the destructiveness it has. Changing this is therefore part of the solution.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-411	Madam President, I would like Thus, we devote the last day of the parliamentary year to showing the different thoughts of the Swedish parties about the solution to the situation in the Middle East. I think it requires some humility, that from an outside perspective we believe that in posts of two plus two minutes we should be able to deliver something big. I also think that we should focus with humility on the people who live in Israel and Palestine during this conflict, which has been going on for generations after generations. It's on these people our focus should just be. Nevertheless, with respect for the nature of the conflict, I would like to explain the position of the Green Party, and we are not alone in this. Israel's settlement policy, including threats of evictions of Palestinian families, violates international humanitarian law, undermines the two-state solution and contributes to an elevated level of conflict. The occupation must stop. Israel must also respect international law and seriously try to find ways forward for a two-state solution, instead of continuing to expand settlements on Palestinian soil. Sweden and the rest of the international community have a responsibility to put pressure on Israel and not turn a blind eye to what settlement policy does. The given counter-question is then– I ask it before anyone else does it: Is everything Israel's fault? No, but Israel is the stronger party. It's an occupying power. And as an occupying power, Israel has a special responsibility that no other countries have. It is also a responsibility to keep the tone of a debate globally, here and around the world, which contributes to a peaceful solution and does not stop it.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-416	Madam President, I would like If you are to be a credible partner, you should also see the conflict as a whole. What has happened recently is a rocket rain from Gaza. It doesn't seem to be part of the Green Party's way of describing what is happening now. Madam President, I would like The Green Party is in the Ministry of Development in the Swedish Government. Something that is usually a credo and that is repeated is that of democracy efforts. It's been Drive for Democracy and some other things. Can Camilla Hansén as a representative of the Green Party define the democratic status in an area that receives Swedish aid but has not conducted an election since 2006? When is the measure heaped, according to the Green Party?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Hans Wallmark. There is no doubt that wherever the bombs against the civilian population come from, it is reprehensible, regardless of the country. It is not a way to move forward towards peace anywhere in the world. But here we need to have a bigger picture of why it is happening. This does not mean that it is acceptable at any time. I want to be very clear about that. With regard to the democratic status of a country that has not had elections, I cannot see that it is up to me to tell you what year it is time to have an election. Our assistance will help prepare for elections. When you haven't had a choice in so long, it's obvious that it should happen as quickly as possible. But if this is delayed, should we withdraw our support for democratic elections? I'm not so sure about that.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-421	Madam President, I would like The last elections took place in 2006, and there was to be a new one in 2010. Then the Green Party could think that this should happen now. That's what they said in 2011, 2012, 2014, 2018, 2020 and 2021. But is there any reasonable reason to believe that a choice will now be made in the near future if it has not been made since 2006? This is the problem, not least for the party in the Ministry of Development. It says that the strategy for Palestine is about respect for human rights, strengthening democracy, the rule of law and gender equality. What exactly does Camilla Hansén see of this in the area which the government supported by her party has recognised as a state? What has Swedish aid contributed to when it comes to democracy and human rights and about an election that has not been conducted since 2006?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-423	Madam President, I would like I would remind you that we not only support the government, but we are also part of it. I'm thinking about how to look at how to contribute in the world. It is not progressing quickly enough to get to elections in Palestine. Is that when you should back down and say, No, now it became difficult, we back down and stop supporting democratic development in Palestine? I think it is a matter of not giving up, of staying and of continuing to push for human rights and democracy. What kind of country do we become if we back off when it's at its most difficult?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-426	Madam President, I would like As you know, the Green Party is currently in the Ministry of Development, with the declared ambition to promote democracy and human rights, among other things. Despite this ambition, we repeatedly see money being channelled directly or indirectly to the Palestinian Authority, for example to UNRWA. Within UNRWA, we know that there are schools that have been used as recruitment bases for terrorist groups such as Hamas. Propaganda are being spread in school books showing incitement to terrorism and attempting to brainwash students with gross anti-Semitic messages. Madam President, I would like How does Camilla Hansén view this?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-428	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the question of how I look at the things you listed! That's a little strange question to answer, because you can't reasonably believe that I would think that terrorist recruitment and all the things you mentioned would be something that I think is a good idea or that I think it's good that aid might end up in the wrong hands. That's absurd. Of course, we want aid to go to the right things. I'll say it again. When you are in one of the most difficult conflicts in the world and you want to contribute it will be difficult. If you back up for every difficulty you encounter, you may not be part of that kind of solution. Me and the Environmental Party want Sweden to be a part of supporting peace development and democracies around the world.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-430	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Camilla Hansén, too, thinks that aid should go to the right things, and I am not, of course, surprised about that. That is precisely why I asked the question. I do not see how the aid funds that go to UNRWA schools, for example, go to the right things, if it is to promote democracy, human rights and so on. How can such a policy be claimed when it actually finances the very opposite? One specific question, Madam President, with regard to the government's efforts on aid in this area – to Palestine – is: what positive results can the government indicate that these efforts have been made? After all, it is Swedish tax funds that are being channelled there in order to do something good. Has anything good come of it?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-433	Madam President, I would like I'm thinking about when we're gonna give up giving education to kids. Unless we are there to support education for children and young people in the Gaza Strip, what other education will they receive? I still want us to be there and to give hope for a future that looks different from what it does today. One can always think about the results of efforts. Sometimes it feels rather uncomfortable when you feel that you are not reaching your goal. This does not mean that efforts are ineffective. It is clear that I want Swedish aid to contribute to solutions, but I can also understand that it may not be enough to do so. With regard to Israel and Palestine in particular, the whole international community needs to support a peaceful solution.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-435	Madam President, I would like In the debate, it has been mentioned that the Palestinian Authority continues to pay out money to the condemned Palestinians and their families. Last year it was about the equivalent of SEK 1 1⁄2 billion that went to the pay of people who carried out terrorist attacks. The more people killed and injured Israelis, the higher the compensation. Pay for slay, is the English term. Over the last few years, environmental aid ministers have all assured us that no Swedish direct aid goes to the Palestinian Authority or to terrorist aid. Regardless of this, I would like to know what the Green Party's view is about the Palestinian Authority's support for terrorism.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-437	Madam President, I would like The Green Party's view is that there should be no support for terrorists. I'll settle for it.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-438	Madam President, I would like That was a clear answer. I note that the Green Party obviously makes a different assessment than the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who calls it a form of social assistance. That's good. At the same time, we have seen over the years how the Green Party is holding or has kept the Palestinian regime under its arms. From Per Gahrton to Gustav Fridolin and Mehmet Kaplan, the party has devoted itself to constantly blacking out Israel. My suggestion, Camilla Hansén, is: why not settle this? Why not, like this on the last day of the parliamentary year, stand on the side of democracy, against Palestinian terrorism?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-440	Madam President, I would like I am sure that Per Gahrton, Gustav Fridolin and former environmentalists have always stood on the side of peace against terrorism. We will continue to do so. In this particular situation, we are on the side of peace. This means that Israel, as an occupying power, needs to assume the responsibilities assigned to it. This means that all concerned need to gather and look for a peaceful way forward. This is what we need. Here, of course, the international community should back up and support all steps in the right direction.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-442	Madam President, I would like The Environmental Party is responsible for aid issues in the government. Sweden is a very large donor to the Palestinian Refugee Agency UNRWA, which is a very special UN agency. The Palestinian refugee tragedy took place before the Geneva Convention existed, which means that UNRWA has a mandate that came in 1949. According to it, the Palestinians have a different definition of their refugee status from that of all other refugees. In fact, Palestinian refugee status is inherited, and other refugees do not. My question to the Green Party is: Since Sweden is a major donor to UNRWA, would it not be reasonable for Sweden to start discussing the issue of changing the fundamental status of UNRWA so that the Palestinians are treated in the same way as all other refugees in the world?
i-9ec67756c72598a4-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Fredrik Malm! As usual, you are knowledgeable in this field, and you know more than I do. I really cannot answer this question because I do not know the difference.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the sincere answer, Camilla Hansén – I cannot say all the questions either, I will say! However, I have been involved in this matter. This is because there is no ambition that, for example, all Kurds should be repatriated to Kurdistan or that all Bulgarians living around the world should be repatriated to Bulgaria. However, as far as the Palestinians are concerned, there is an ambition called the issue of return, and it is based somewhere on the return of all Palestinians to Israel. This means, of course, that many of the countries in the Arab world where the Palestinian refugees live do not have to take any greater responsibility, because it has been shoveled over at the UN body UNRWA – which in turn will then become some sort of good man for, today, 5 million Palestinians. It is not reasonable for the Palestinian refugee tragedy to proceed in this way only in generation after generation. That is why I believe that these statements should be reviewed.
i-9ec67756c72598a4-448	Madam President, I would like It is true that what we wish for – I take the opportunity to be a little far-reaching as we approach the end of the parliamentary year – is a world where everyone can move where they want to but where no one who does not want to move is forced to flee. I imagine that we need to continue to talk about this in the future and to get deeper into the issue. With that, I wish I could enjoy a summer!
i-9ec67756c72598a4-450	Madam President, I would like In order to build a sustainable and fair peace between Israel and Palestine, the needs, rights and security of both parties must be taken into account. Sweden has tried in various ways, politically and through aid, to contribute to a two-state solution and to end the occupation, violence and terrorism. A long-term solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is only to be found in a negotiated two-state solution based firmly on international law, where Israel and Palestine can exist in peace and security, side by side and with Jerusalem as the capital of both states. With that, I thank you very much for the initiative for this debate and wish all Members a happy midsummer!
