i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-9	Madam President, I would like I am sending my thoughts to health care and care, which has been working on this pandemic for almost two years. There was no air in the system before the pandemic started. And now, two years later, we can see that there is still no air in the system. Madam President, I would like In September 2021, the Riksdag announced to the Government that it would return to the Riksdag by 10 November 2021 at the latest with a letter describing the measures taken in connection with the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures and its attitude towards the continued validity of the laws. In the report, the committee examines the letter from the government and states, among other things, that it assumes that the government will continue to report on the measures it has taken and its attitude towards the continued validity of the laws. The debate today is based on the letter from the government and our answers. Madam President, I would like There is no other law to use at the moment. The CDC Act is individual-oriented. Moreover, since 2006, and until now, governments have not been proactive in building a structure and laws for major pandemics. Right now, the spread of infection is increasing. In comparison with the rest of Europe, Sweden currently has a spread of infection that is increasing but not overall alarming and a fairly favourable development in the rest of the world. We can also see that hospitalisations are rising from a very low level, Madam President. Vaccinations mean everything. In Sweden, 79.5 percent are now vaccinated from twelve years onwards. That is a decent figure, but I would like to see that we reached at least 90%. Everything can change and get worse. We know that. It can also get better. Throughout the pandemic, the Left Party has argued that there is a need for a careful balance between effective measures to protect infection and the rights and freedoms of its inhabitants. We agree with the law, but we have objections. Restrictions on fundamental rights are very serious in themselves, but it can be exacerbated if the restrictions persist for a long time. The question of proportionality is and remains very difficult to assess in this legislation. Several referrals looked at it when this law came in its first version. The risk of a negative impact on public health is obvious – we need to look at it – when restrictions can now be introduced under the law. Particular attention must be paid to the right of children and young people to good health. There's something we need to look at. We would also like to point out that the application of the law risks having worse consequences for economically vulnerable groups in Sweden. People who live and live cramped are more affected when activities and social meeting places are closed. Socio-economic factors must be taken into account. It is clear from the Act that some of the Government's regulations issued under the new Act are to be submitted to the Riksdag within a week by means of a bill in each individual case. We believe that this is too long. Like the initial opinions of a large number of referral bodies, when we adopted the covid-19 law in January of this year, we are recommending a shorter deadline. Our offer, Madam President, is about to happen. We also have other objections. The government also proposes the possibility of introducing a ban on staying in a park, in a bathing area or in another similar designated place if there is a high risk of congestion on the site. For many people, the possibility of getting out and moving, for example in a park or another green area, is essential for maintaining their health. Not everyone has summer cottages, as you might know. If the beach, playground or green area in a particular area is completely closed, it can lead to people being very limited in their ability to get out. It is mainly about people who have limited resources and who are without access to cars. The Left Party also sees problems with how to control such a ban and who in the area can be regarded as responsible. We will soon have a pandemic discussion again, Madam President, in January. Then this will probably be lifted away, and we are happy about that. Maybe it's a certain influence from the Left. Madam President, I would like One of the most fundamental rights and freedoms in our society is the right to come together to express their opinion and try to form opinion. Manife stations and demonstrations are a natural part of every democracy. The temporary pandemic legislation means that the government can limit the opportunities to gather for public opinion in streets and squares. We defend the right of citizens to express themselves in the form of manifestations and demonstrations and safeguard this fundamental right in our democracy. We therefore want the government and the authorities to look in particular at citizens' right to freedom of demonstration in the implementation of the legislation. How long are we going to have a suspended demonstration ban? I thereby lift our reservation and motions 1 - 4 in our exercise. But this law is not enough. Left, and hopefully more parties, want more. It is not enough for the West to produce, buy up and pax vaccines when about 42.7 percent are vaccinated in the world. The ego boost in the West is now hitting hard back. Mutations will come and go. The whole world must be vaccinated to a much greater extent. In Tanzania, 1.5 percent have been vaccinated. In Congo, it's 0.3%. In South Africa, it's 25%. This is a disaster, not only for the whole of Africa but also for the whole world. African countries have little chance of gaining control of the covid-19 pandemic unless 70% of the population is vaccinated by the end of 2022. However, there is vaccination discrimination that leaves this continent behind. Now it's time for the whole world to join forces. Mutations will follow each other unless the whole world is vaccinated. We need to find a global structure, lift patents and launch global vaccination.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-24	Madam President, I would like I would have liked the pandemic to have now passed into a post-pandemic phase and approached a more manageable epidemic. That's what it's gonna be, but it's obviously gonna be a while longer. We still have a pandemic. We have coronaviruses that are contagious and cause some to suffer severe disease, and more than 15 000 people in Sweden have died in the pandemic. When the current pandemic law – or rather the laws, because there are two laws – was dealt with shortly after the summer, just as Karin Rågsjö referred to, there was a hope in all of us that the infection would continue to be at low levels and hopefully ebb out as more vaccinated with double doses. I'm glad so many people have vaccinated themselves. Thank you, all of you! Now a refill dose is offered, and if you are up to date for it – take it! I'm glad that my home region Jönköping already offers us over 50 years to take a refill dose provided it's been six months since the last dose, and I've booked an appointment for a refill in the middle days. I wish everyone in the country had access to the vaccine you need at the right time. Madam President, I would like It is vaccines that allow us to avoid restrictions and restrictions. Without vaccines, we will have to keep a proper distance, and if the infection continues to increase, more restrictions will be required. Therefore, vaccinations must continue in all regions of the country so that everyone who wants to receive their first, second and third doses. Vaccines are always an offer, no compulsion. However, those who choose to abstain must also bear the consequences of the need for greater distance and not expose risk groups to the risk of contamination. Madam President, I would like When the current pandemic laws were extended until 31 January, Parliament introduced a mid-term review. That is the reconciliation that we are now dealing with. The view of the Christian Democrats is that a government must be able to act in the event of a crisis and make the necessary decisions. In principle, this possibility was missing throughout the first year of the pandemic. It was only at this time a year ago that the Pandemic Act came into being, and it began to be used in January 2021. The Covid-19 Act has a design that allows restrictions to be introduced and removed in a flexible way. It also provides for the possibility of intervention measures affecting freedom of assembly and freedom of religion. Therefore, no government can have such a law indefinitely. Parliament must also always be able to go in and reverse it if it is not needed to reduce the infection. This opportunity was obtained by the Riksdag through the decision we made earlier this autumn, and we are therefore now trying the extension. Madam President, I would like None of the parties in the Riksdag have considered that the law needs to be repealed now. It should remain in place until 31 January. It thus enables the Public Health Authority to provide general advice on precautionary measures that were announced yesterday and apply from today. These are precautions that seem reasonable on the basis of the increase we see in the infection now, albeit from low levels. However, since we do not want to go back to the high levels, we need precautions. The Public Health Agency needs to have an opportunity to take more steps if we do not manage to limit the infection. If you do not want to keep a distance at events with more than 100 participants, vaccination certificates can be used. They are therefore an alternative to keeping a distance, and each organiser has to assess how they want it. I have been to an arrangement this past weekend: a service with more than 100 participants where the distance requirements were used, and I was at a concert where vaccination certificates were used. Both options are possible to use. The organizer's in charge. If the government considers that they want to extend pandemic laws after 1 February, the Social Affairs Committee wants the government to better describe not only the risk of infection but also the consequences of measures taken. Parliament has to assess whether the laws are proportionate. If the government wants to return with an extension, the Riksdag will require a better basis next time we will assess it. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to tell about the development of covid-19. However, if more people vaccinate, we will reduce the need for restrictions. Conversely, the need for restrictions will remain unless more are vaccinated. The infection is increasing but from low levels. It should stay there and go down again. That should be our common goal. Medical care sees an increased need for care for covids, and some need intensive care. Health care and care for the elderly have for a long time been doing great things. Should the infection increase more, health care and elderly care will be severely affected again. We don't want to go there. The infection must be held back and go back down. Together, we can do so through vaccinations and by following the precautions that apply from today. The Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-41	Madam President, I would like Of course we're all behind this law. Yesterday the government and the Public Health Agency also came with a whole package of measures in different stages. We hope we'll be on stage 1 and then end up at 0 again, right? For example, a temporary suspension of the Karen Day was introduced precisely to bring down the infection. Many people can work at home – we ourselves, for example. However, Karen's Day makes many with low wages sometimes forced to go to work, simply in order not to lose so much of their income. I must say that, from the point of view of disease protection, it is a matter of course to delete Karen's Day. I wonder, Madam President, how Mr Ankarberg Johansson's party views the matter of Karen's Day.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-44	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question! We welcome the fact that yesterday the government not only presented precautionary measures but also added the necessary financial compensation. We have repeatedly requested from our party and from the Committee on Social Affairs that measures to protect infection be combined with financial compensation for those affected. In fact, yesterday was the first time the government presented both things at the same time, which was very welcome. It is a bit bleak that we have had to point out so many times from the House that both things have to be done at the same time. If you tell me that I must probably be even closer to staying at home when I am ill, there must also be financial protection that makes it possible. For all those traders who are now affected by the precautionary measures, there must be a possibility of financial protection. That is why yesterday's announcement was welcome for us.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-47	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for his reply. I see Karen's Day as part of public health work. When the pandemic is over – which we all hope will be quite soon – I hope, of course, that we will remove it, precisely because it is very preventive in terms of health. A Karen's Day is not good for public health. How does Acko Ankarberg Johansson's party view this?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-50	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats do not have a proposal to delete the Karen Day in general. However, you need to look at how it works. We have had many discussions, for example, about how it will work when you go home after half the day, so there is every reason to review the Karen Day, not least from different jobs. It beats quite different and unfair depending on what work you have. So there is every reason to review this as we approach a more normal situation. However, we think that some kind of withdrawal day is needed in health insurance.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-52	Madam President, I would like As has been said, today's report is about an announcement from the Riksdag that the government would return with a letter outlining the measures taken in connection with the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control at Serving Sites and how to look at the possible extension of these laws. The Government's strategy has been to implement measures aimed at reducing the spread of infection in public environments, workplaces, etc. by reducing congestion and preventing new infection chains from arising when people who normally do not meet. The measures taken under the law have had a considerable effect with less congestion and smaller crowds. Followiveness has been good among the population. Madam President, I would like Let me turn to the efforts that have been made under the Covids Act. In the context of the entry into force of the legislation, measures were introduced quite quickly. Provisions on restrictions on public gatherings and public events, such as gyms, sports facilities, baths and trading venues, were introduced. A few months later, more new provisions were introduced requiring disease control measures in museums, art galleries, amusement parks and zoos. Local authorities were also given a stronger mandate to introduce certain prohibitions to reduce congestion. Earlier this month, Madam President, the government decided to introduce vaccination passports for public and public gatherings. Last night, the Government presented a new three-stage action plan, the first of which will take effect today. Basically, it is a matter of tightening up the requirement to keep distance and reduce congestion and in certain situations use masks. Madam President, I would like With regard to the part of the legislation dealing with disease control measures at catering points, the same thing is happening there. The Government authorised the Public Health Agency to issue regulations for catering facilities aimed at the same purpose, namely to limit congestion and to keep distance between guests. In September this year these restrictions were lifted. Here you can see how fast it goes in a pandemic. The letter also describes the strong support measures initiated by the government to reduce the negative effects of the restrictions. The measures introduced included short-term work and conversion aid. In the fields of culture, sport and public transport, substantial support has been given to cover loss of revenue. Both the government and our expert authorities see a need for an extension of the Pandemic Act, which will expire on 31 January next year. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we are still in a pandemic. It is important that we all remind ourselves of this. We have to keep trying to stay one step ahead. In the outside world, there has been a marked increase in infection in many countries. More and more countries are introducing new corona restrictions. In our country we have had a low spread of infection during the autumn, but unfortunately we now see that the spread of infection is increasing here too. But still few are cared for in intensive care. It is important to maintain this good position in the future. The dominant delta variant can now be replaced by a new mutation that is more complex. It's called the Omitron variant. What it means remains for us to see, but there are already strong suspicions of a more powerful spread of infection and a shorter incubation period. Another important issue for us is to gain more knowledge about how our vaccines work against the new variant. As several speakers have said, vaccination is one of the most important tools for combating the pandemic. We have good access to vaccines, and there is a readiness to update various vaccines. If it turns out that the new variant makes our vaccines worse, there may already be new updated vaccines on the market at the beginning of the spring. It is now important for all health care, care, school and elderly care personnel to have the necessary rest and breathing. That is why I would like to call on you, from the floor, who are listening to you, if possible, to vaccinate you. In view of the current situation, the government has already taken the initiative for a new Council of Law referral. It will be proposed to extend the temporary law until 31 May 2022. We will have to return to the question when the matter arises. However, I would also like to emphasise that, even if restrictions and legislation are extended, it is a matter of being prepared. It is not a question of introducing new restrictions automatically. It is good that the majority of the committee supports the letter. I also note that the government intends to return with a new letter in spring, based on the epidemiological situation and on new legislation. The government has found and will find a good balance between the needs of society and the needs of the individual. The Social Democrats support the proposal, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-66	Madam President, I would like Everyone is behind the Pandemic Act, even if we had a number of questions. Everyone knows about what to do nationally. There's a fair consensus. The interesting thing is what the situation in the world looks like. It does not help that there are many different vaccines and that we vaccinate ourselves if the mutations will pour into the world. It's about vaccinating the whole world. 42.7 percent are vaccinated worldwide. It is not very much, and in some countries extremely few are vaccinated. Madam President, I would like I wonder how the Social Democrats view the issue of how we can act more internationally on this issue. It's connected to the Pandemic Act. We have to take different steps to try to limit the infection. One of those steps must be a completely different approach to countries where the population is not vaccinated. We will do everything we can to enable countries to build a structure to vaccinate their population. It may seem that this is not related to the question, but it does. How do Mikael Dahlqvist and the Social Democrats view the prerequisites that Sweden can do more when it comes to the international work on the pandemic, specifically targeted efforts to countries that have few vaccinated and a poor health structure?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-70	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for the question. Madam President, I would like I share Karin Rågsjö's concerns. In order to combat the pandemic effectively, we must eradicate it worldwide. Unfortunately, as Karin Rågsjö describes, most of the countries have not made much progress with vaccination or even had access to vaccines. The government and the Social Democrats are committed to international solidarity. This includes, among other things, the availability of vaccines. That is why the government through the EU has driven the process of developing the international vaccination programme. Sweden has also ordered considerably more doses of vaccines than we need with, among other things, the intention to give away to all countries that need vaccines. More needs to be done. As I understand it, the government is pressing for these issues in the context where it is needed.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-73	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that sounds promising. There are countries that have supported the proposal to temporarily lift patents and do something more radical. The United States and France have expressed this. Surely it cannot be said that the EU is directly at the starting points to do this. It takes more than passing on a number of doses of vaccine from time to time – something more manifest is needed in the world. Madam President, I would like I wonder, Mikael Dahlqvist, how you will act. Will you press for more in this context, for example in Europe, to find a more accessible way to vaccinate, for example, the continent of Africa?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-75	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your comments, Karin Rågsjö! I am convinced that the government is doing what it can in the forums in which it represents Sweden in order to achieve more effective international vaccination. It is clear that the European Union is a large organisation with many different countries and views, but I still think that the government's representatives in official appearances have made it clear how important it is for us to have a spread of vaccines throughout our world, Madam President. I think it is important that we continue to work on this issue, just as you describe, Karin Rågsjö. I am convinced that the government and all of us who are working on this issue are doing what we can to bring about this development. If we do not succeed in this, we will have a pandemic for many, many years, because the virus will mutate as long as it circulates.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-78	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns the letter from the Government setting out the measures taken in connection with the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites. The Government also describes its position on the continued validity of the laws. Today, however, we do not decide on an extension of the law, despite the title of the SoU8 report. It can still be good to say for new viewers and listeners. The extension will be dealt with later in special order, in a government proposal. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that the spread of covid-19 is still ongoing. The danger is not over, and the spread of infection is increasing – albeit from low levels. It is important that we keep each other safe, keep our distance, be careful about hygiene and vaccinate ourselves. Madam President, I would like The Pandemic legislation allows vaccine evidence, which is perhaps the most important disease control measure in addition to the vaccinations themselves and precautions. Sifo showed in a study the day before yesterday that eight out of ten Swedes think it is right to make more stringent demands on unvaccinated than on vaccinated people. In the same study from Sifo, nine out of ten people think that health and social care employers should be able to require a vaccine certificate for the staff. There is thus an overwhelming majority in Sweden who think that this is the right way to go – although the most vocal are the opponents of vaccine evidence. These are the ones we hear most from, but, as I said, they do not constitute a majority. For the Moderates, it remains crucial that Sweden keeps the spread of infection down, that hospitalisation decreases and that we do everything we can to prevent people from becoming seriously ill in covid-19 and thus end up in intensive care. At the same time, measures and restrictions on people's freedom must always be proportionate to the need to protect the most sick and fragile – elderly people and people with serious diseases. We Moderates believe that the way out of the pandemic is vaccination, that vaccine evidence should be used effectively and widely as an important protection measure and that the spread of infection must continue to be kept down in society. As I said, the vaccinations are the way out of the pandemic, Madam President. Unfortunately, however, a third dose will take a while in some regions, although today we have heard good examples from the Jönköping Region. I know that many regions are working very hard, but I will say a few words about why it is going to take some regions. Let me just briefly draw a few dates! On 29 September this year, on the advice of the Public Health Agency, the government abolished most restrictions and recommendations regarding covid ‐ 19. On October 20, the then Director General of the Public Health Agency, Johan Carlson, stated that the West should be careful to give a third dose very quickly. One week later, the Swedish Public Health Agency announced that all over 65 years of age should be given a third dose, as well as staff at SÄBO and in home care and home care. It should be done after six months from the second dose. Madam President, I would like Of course, this twitchiness can be a little difficult to understand, and so can the lack of foresight. After all, it makes the work of the regions difficult. I believe – and it is not just me as an opposition politician who thinks so, but I have the Corona Commission with me there – that the government has been slow. Sweden's management of the pandemic has been characterised by slowness, says the Commission. The initial protective measures were insufficient both to stop and to severely limit the spread of infection in the country, the Commission continues. When you give so different answers only a few weeks apart, I might think it would have been a bit dressy of the government not to load the regions to be slow. The regions are doing what they can on the basis of the conditions they receive from the national level. I think it's good that we remind each other of that. Madam President, I would like Finally, there is the freedom issue – a concept that is absolutely central to me as a liberal moderate. We Moderates believe in the greatest possible freedom for all people. The debate sometimes says that vaccine evidence would mean less freedom, whereas the use of vaccine evidence during the pandemic actually increases people's freedom. And to say the obvious, for the obvious reason: Sweden will not force anyone to vaccinate. However, if you choose not to vaccinate as an adult, there will be consequences during an ongoing pandemic. Let us remember that these consequences affected all of us not so long ago, before the vaccines were in place. Before vaccination started, it was primarily the elderly and people at risk who had to make great sacrifices by not meeting friends, family and family for a very long time. The vaccinations were what made it possible to break social isolation, and many were very grateful for that. Let us not forget it!
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-89	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Ulrika Heindorff from the Moderates. After all, it is two and a half months ago that the Swedish Public Health Agency made its recommendation that everyone in the care of the elderly should be vaccinated. That's two and a half months ago. Today, Madam President, it is 55% – or we may have reached 60% – who are vaccinated in the home care sector, which I believe is a major failure for the regions. It is also the case that regions with large surpluses – such as my own home region Region Stockholm, which has 7 billion in surplus – have not been able to inflate the possibilities of vaccinating those who are going to take the third dose. I have to say that we cannot simply stand by and point to the Public Health Authority and the Government as guilty in a situation that has meant that we are now standing here without the third dose being delivered specifically to the most fragile. I think it is a failure on the part of the regions. My second question concerns Karen's Day, because it was the one that was flagged from the government yesterday. It was in a package around the entire Pandemic Act, so to speak. I wonder, of course, how the Moderates and Ulrika Heindorff stand on Karen's Day, Madam President – not only to remove it temporarily but also in the future. However, is it clear that the spread of infection and inequalities in public health will increase if we have a withdrawal day? It can even be measured.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-93	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the questions. I can start with the last one, about Karen's Day. Yesterday there were new bids from the government on this issue. One can start by saying that exceptional situations obviously require exceptional measures. There was an extended Karen's Day earlier, and we Moderates may as well follow the situation. Now it has been removed, and the new direction came yesterday. We are prepared to take a new position, which I will have to discuss with my moderate colleagues in the framework of the Social Security Committee, where those decisions are taken. It may be that you should go back to the end of the day; you simply have to follow the situation. It should be remembered, however, that this is not something you do lightly, but it is something that is done because of an exceptional situation such as a pandemic. With regard to Karin Rågsjö's second question, I think I explained this quite well in my speech earlier. It has not been an optimal situation for regions to follow developments and recommendations made at national level. It is clear that they go back into capacity when it is said on 29 September that restrictions and recommendations will be removed. The large vaccination facilities that existed were removed, and other activities that previously existed there were resumed due to the removal of the restrictions. Then it was a few weeks before the third dose came, one week after the Director-General gave a slightly different message. So it is clear that it has not been an optimal situation for the regions to act in view of the twitchiness experienced by the Public Health Authority on this issue, which I think the honourable Member can also see.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-97	Madam President, I would like I'll think about it, Ulrika Heindorff. If two and a half months pass and the regions know that they are going to vaccinate in the home care but do not manage to do so, I am very surprised. It is also about the lack of capacity of the regions. What are we gonna do? Should we send calls home to people, perhaps? It is not teeming with summons home to the unvaccinated right now. I think that the regions have been slow on this issue. The Public Health Agency – I do not know if it was the Director General, Anders Tegnell or who it was – went out and said exactly what I am pointing out, namely that we must ensure that the whole world is vaccinated. I think it is a big problem that we in Parliament cannot raise this together. If we do not overcome the pandemic worldwide, we will be here next year too, with various proposals for the Eighth Pandemic Act. That's not how I want it. So I think we should look at this a little. When it comes to Karen's Day, it's about a class team, based on the way I see it. When I have been sick, I have been able to work at home, as a Member of Parliament but also before. There are always conditions for us who can sit at home. But those who work in preschool and school, in shops and on the bus, those who have the low incomes and the single mothers can hardly survive if they are home when the Karen Day is introduced. That means they go to work sick. It cannot be a public health hit. I think we should remove mistrust of people. That people are resting at home on the sofa lid when they are not actually ill is not something I have seen in my vicinity. I hope there are several of us who can lift Karen's Day when that day comes. I think it goes without saying that it is being removed now, temporarily anyway.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-101	Madam President, I would like We will simply have to come back later on when it comes to the abolition of Karen's Day. But this, as I see it, is also linked to the evolution of the pandemic. Nevertheless, as far as the regions are concerned and their work is concerned, I think that, on the basis of the conditions laid down at national level and with the twitchiness that has been achieved and the various messages that have been given, they have done a good job. I don't think it's about money. You mentioned surpluses in some region and the like, but I don't think that's where it is. I believe that we need common forces – that we at national level and the regions work together. It's about information. We know that there are socio-economic differences in vaccinations, and there is a great deal of work to be done to reach everyone. It's very important for us to get out of the pandemic that we reach all the groups. We have about 85% vaccinated. Well, that's a good thing so far, but of course we have to go up higher. That is why we must work with common forces, both the Moderates, the Left Party and all the other parties in this House, to ensure that more people are vaccinated.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-104	Madam President, I would like Earlier this autumn, the Riksdag sent an announcement to the Government that we wanted to see a letter about the measures taken by the Government and how the Government views the law's continued validity. Madam President, I would like I believe that several of us Members have received e-mails and messages from citizens saying that today's debate concerns the possible extension of the Covid-19 law. This is not the case, but today we are debating the letter we requested earlier this autumn. The proposal to extend the law will come later this week, and the debate ahead of such a decision will only be held later next year. Madam President, I would like The pandemic continues to affect the world and our existence here in Sweden. We naturally see a wide range of attitudes to both the presence of restrictions and their non-presence. To have a calm and nuanced picture you need to take much into account and carefully weigh the effects of restrictions on the individual but also on society at large. The Swedish Democrats have early criticized the government for its slowness in the early stages of the pandemic. This is also clearly described by the Corona Commission, which, like us, has highlighted, among other things, that Sweden's management of the pandemic has been characterised by slowness. Initial protective measures were insufficient to stop or even severely limit the spread of infection in the country. Swedish pandemic preparedness was also poor. Furthermore, care for the elderly was particularly affected, and reports show that the infection entered housing via staff rather than through relatives. According to another background report, research also shows that the risk of dying in covid-19 was higher in housing with high staff turnover and on larger housing. This is a major failure for Sweden. Sweden also has the highest mortality rate in the Nordic countries, and healthcare has been particularly challenged. Healthcare professionals have made a heroic effort and a heroic effort throughout the pandemic, especially when the peaks were greatest. In some places it has been like war zones, with lack of beds, protective equipment, oxygen machines and so on. Given the slowness of the government, I would dare to say that the Pandemic Act has in some sense been used with caution. Madam President, I would like When we were in a messy parliamentary situation without a government, we from the Swedish Democrats felt that it was not within the remit of a transitional government to take decisions on regulations to enable the introduction of vaccination certificates, as we also said. We had a prime minister's vote around the corner and thought that it would first be discussed – that the introduction of vaccination certificates was not so urgent that it could not wait until Sweden really had a government in place. At an early stage, when the first proposal for the introduction of the Pandemic Act was to be discussed, we raised objections to the far-reaching delegation given to the government. Among other things, the Swedish Democrats believed that more types of writings would be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. We did not get a response to the proposals we made. However, like all other parties, we still welcome the existence of the Pandemic Act. The Swedish Parliament has therefore not dealt with the issue of vaccination certificates in connection with the Pandemic Act. It is simply the transitional government that has presented it as a whole on the basis of the request from the Public Health Authority. It has therefore not passed the Constitutional Test of the Law Council nor has it undergone a thorough review process. We have, of course, looked at the proposal, and it is our view that all three evidence should form the basis of a passport. In other words, in addition to the vaccination certificate, the proof of recovery and a negative test must also be valid. This would be more inclusive, in our opinion, and therefore more beneficial. Having said that, it is after all the case that we cannot influence either one way or the other. Madam President, I would like Despite some questions along the way, we can see great benefits from the vaccination certificate now introduced and the type of valve it nevertheless constitutes. It is based on volunteering and gives organizers the opportunity to maximize their events. The vaccination certificate thus opens up in order not to have to take into account other restrictions that are otherwise imposed, and that is extremely positive, in our view. This is especially true now that we are in a situation of more restrictions and increased infection. The vaccination certificate may also be applied in an ever wider context. We must also work to ensure that entrepreneurs, who have been severely affected by pandemics and restrictions, have the opportunity to live to the full. This is extremely important. It is good that the government has developed a three-step model with restrictions and is therefore a little more forward-looking, pragmatic and transparent than before. It is important that restrictions are also observed so that the spread of infection is as low as possible. Madam President, I would like We have a comparatively high vaccination rate, and the majority of the population is actually vaccinated. This allows for a vaccination certificate, which would otherwise have been completely unthinkable. It is a relatively small part of the population that is not vaccinated and is in some sense adversely affected by the introduction of vaccination certificates, and judging from all the emails that have come, I can say that one is good at pushing the issue. With our attitude, the small group of unvaccinated people would not be affected. Only those who are actually ill would be excluded. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have always had the view that it is important to work for increased vaccination coverage through increased availability, adequate contamination detection and increased test capacity. The presence in the country must increase. In order to avoid restrictions in the future, we need to achieve as high a level of vaccination as possible. It's a fact. Then we need to have continued good dissemination of knowledge that also reaches those groups in areas of exclusion, for example, which for some reason have chosen not to vaccinate themselves. Let me point out, however, that the responsibility to vaccinate lies with the individual. As I said, the report we are debating is a letter based on the laws which lapse on 31 January 2022. The Swedish Democrats have chosen not to follow-up on this letter because we await the bill waiting around the corner, including an extension until 31 May. We also note that the government intends to return to the Riksdag on its own initiative in March with its description of the government's position on whether the laws will continue to apply until May, which is a good thing. However, in the committee's view, we expect, not least in view of the proportionality assessment that the committee has to make, that the government will also present a more in-depth basis, not least on the consequences of the laws, but also on a slightly broader basis.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-123	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the Public Health Agency and the Government came with a whole package of measures of various kinds. One of these was a temporary stop of Karen's day. What is the view of the Swedish Democrats on Karen's Day, on the one hand the temporary stop and on the other, on how to remove Karen's Day more long-term for the sake of public health? It hits people who can't work at home quite hard, and it's a fairly large and scattered group. They risk becoming sicker if they go to work and also risk infecting others, even when there is no pandemic. It could be about the flu and other things. We live in the time of mutations. How do the Swedish Democrats and Linda Lindberg think we should act internationally? It's connected. We can vaccinate ourselves several times over and extend pandemic laws, but how are we going to work to get the whole world vaccinated? Only then can we put an end to this pandemic.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-126	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for the questions. As far as the withdrawal is concerned, we basically have the same entrance as the Left Party. Already in March 2020, when the government presented the proposal for a flat-rate carer's allowance, we thought full compensation should be paid. We have also made this clear in many different contexts. As far as the withdrawal is concerned, we have budgeted to be able to remove it for certain occupational groups, such as health care and school staff. I think we and the Left Party are quite in agreement on these issues. Just as Karin Rågsjö says, it is of great importance that we get a broad vaccination all over the world. As soon as we open up for travel, the spread of infection increases, and then we are back to square one and have to shut down. That is why it is important to work on this, as I believe it is. However, it is not really for us in the Committee on Social Affairs to look at it.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-131	Madam President, I would like I thank Linda Lindberg for her answer, specifically about Karen's Day. It will be interesting to follow this in your cooperation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, because they are not as alert to take away the Karen Day. It's going to be a wakeet in the larger lineboard we're all in. I hope you take the Karen Day and see what consequences it has for people who cannot work from home, which is a large group. It particularly affects single mothers with low income. The economic decline that becomes when one day, so to speak, disappears means a lot to these families, but it seems difficult for the other parties to understand that the economy can be very fragile for some people. They do not have 67,000 in fees to sit in parliament, but may earn 22 000 a month.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-133	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that we have a common vision and entry point in relation to the withdrawal of withdrawals. As has already been said, we wanted full compensation to be paid in March last year and not just a flat-rate compensation for the withdrawal date, because otherwise it would cost the individual to be at home. We will have to work on this issue in a broader context.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-135	Madam President, I would like I intend to put two questions to Mrs Lindberg on the basis of her speech. The honourable Member criticises the government for its slow action at the beginning of the pandemic while criticising the transitional government for the decision to introduce vaccine passports. How does the honourable Member view the government on the one hand being criticised for being slow and, on the other hand, being criticised when it acts quickly? So to my second question. How does the honourable Member see that the state and regions have a shared responsibility for health care in Sweden? This means that it is the regions that carry out vaccinations, for example, which are responsible for the budget, the working environment and the division of labour. I would therefore like to ask how the honourable Member views the relationship between state and region with regard to health care.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-138	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Mikael Dahlqvist! Of course, it's a balance. It is clear that the government has initially been very slow on these issues. This is also clearly stated in both the first and second interim reports of the Corona Commission. It is a fact, then, and we all know that this has been the case. When it comes to the issue of vaccination certificates, there is a constitutional part to it, and I think you need to be careful to distinguish between things. I am not saying that vaccination certificates are bad or that they should not be introduced, but we had a prime minister's vote just around the corner. It is our view that it should have been able to wait until we had a government in place that could be held accountable for the things being done. As far as the relationship between state and region is concerned, it is clear that one has a shared responsibility. We all, each one of us, have a responsibility. We have a responsibility to vaccinate ourselves and to stick to the restrictions that exist, and it is extremely important that we all take that responsibility. As Mrs Dahlqvist knows, given the draws we have had in committee, it has been very twitchy. There has been a sharp shift in restrictions and priority groups, and perhaps it is not simply for the regions to react to such rapid fluctuations. My view is that it should be a more transparent and flexible direction towards the regions so that they can make priorities based on the evidence available and who actually wants to vaccinate themselves at the moment. Then we would have been able to increase the rate of vaccination considerably more than is being done today.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer to the question, Linda Lindberg! There is still a reflection on my part. It concerns Linda Lindberg's criticism of vaccination passes and that the government made decisions under the current circumstances. At the same time, the honourable Member criticises the government for being slow. I would like the honourable Member to clarify how she views this connection. The criticisms from the Corona Commission will be evaluated when we get the full letter and the evaluation is done. The actions of the regions during the pandemic are also interesting, Madam President. I sometimes think that you shoot the messenger, that is, the government. The government is ultimately responsible – no talking about that – but we know that the regions, with the order we have in our country and the way we govern, have a huge responsibility. My idea, Linda Lindberg, is: In what way do you think the government would have acted differently from the regions?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-145	Madam President, I would like If Mikael Dahlqvist had listened to what I said in my speech, it might have been a little clearer what I think about the relationship between state and region. Nevertheless, it is the Public Health Authority and to some extent the Government that gives instructions to the regions on how to work with vaccination. My view is that there have been at times quite unclear there. It has been clear which groups should be given priority over others. I think that if one had pointed a little less with the whole hand, it would probably have been easier for the regions to increase the vaccination rate. That is my definite entry into this matter. Again, you have to distinguish between apples and pears. We did not think it was entirely appropriate for a transitional government to proceed with the regulation. We had a transitional government that could not come and visit the committee because it was a transitional government. We also had a transitional government which, for example, did not take written questions or other things, and then one might think that it should be looked at the purely constitutional nature of the matter. Having said that, there is no reason for the honourable Member to worry that we would be against the vaccination certificate.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-148	Madam President, I would like I noted that the honourable Member, Linda Lindberg, repeatedly pointed out that we are not dealing with an extension. We do this indirectly, because the mandate we gave ourselves was that we wanted to be able to agree after two months. Surely we would have had the opportunity to repeal the law today. I just want clarity from the Swedish Democrats, who, like the Christian Democrats, had the opportunity to follow-up on repealing the law. We chose not to do so, and so did the other parties in the committee, including the Swedish Democrats. I would therefore like to ask: do we not agree that we should extend the law until 31 January, or what is the attitude of the Swedish Democrats?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-150	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Acko Ankarberg Johansson! You're absolutely right, that's exactly what it is. I am thinking of the entrance to the emails that have come, where I understand many citizens so that it is the new pandemic law that we are going to deal with today. But that is not what we are doing, but we are dealing in substance with the letter that we have requested from the government. It's possible I've been unclear there. So that is what we are dealing with here today, not the new bill. Then it is clear that we have had the opportunity to follow-up and suggest that we would like to repeal the law, but that is not something that we have any thoughts about at all. It should be fixed until January.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-153	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the clarification. I get a lot of emails too. It is quite easy to say that we are not dealing with what we believe and then not really taking responsibility for the decisions that are made. I have participated and intend to press for the law to continue to apply until 31 January. I stand for this because the current contamination means that we need a government that can take action. However, I intend to do what I can, and I am very pleased that the government has already listened. You have to remove the most intrusive parts. We have exercised this in the past. I want to stand by the decisions I make, and that is why it is important for me to get clarity. I thank the honourable Member for clarifying the position of the Swedish Democrats. Sounds good.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-157	Madam President, I would like It is very important and good that Acko Ankarberg Johansson raises the issue here. I want to make it clear that we also support all the decisions we make. We have no intention but to stand behind the Pandemic Act until 31 January.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-158	Madam President, I would like When the Parliament debated and decided in September on an extension of the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites, the Center Party had some fundamental objections that we followed up with reservations. As a whole, however, we agreed that the laws should be extended to 31 January. It was good that the decisions could be made with broad support through an agreement that the government would return with a letter to Parliament in the mid-term. It is important, Madam President, that we can find broad majority positions on important issues for Sweden. We are now debating this letter. It is a strength for Sweden that we also have a broad consensus before the decision to be taken by the Riksdag. In view of the developments we are now seeing with an increase in the number of infected people, it was a wise position in September to allow the laws to apply until 31 January. There is much to be said for them to be further extended. The Swedish vaccination campaign has been successful. Soon more than 80 percent of the population older than 12 years have received two vaccinations. We remain concerned that there are areas in the country where vaccination coverage is too low, for example in the vulnerable areas. We are also concerned that regional differences in third vaccination are so great. Among the elderly in our retirement homes, the coverage rate is good, but among the elderly with home care, in several regions it has been too slow. The committee has taken note of reports from the Swedish Public Health Agency, from Swedish Municipalities and Regions and from the government. It is regrettable that we still see the pattern of wanting to blame someone else. It wouldn't have to be like that. The government, as the Corona Commission has pointed out, should demonstrate in a crisis situation that it is the government that is running the country. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the Left Party's reservation.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-163	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Melki for his speech. I would also like to make it clear that the Left Party also supports the whole law, so far. But we had some objections. My question is about yesterday's announcement. The Swedish Public Health Agency and the Government gave very clear information about what to do in different stages – steps one, two and three. Among other things, a temporary suspension of the Karen Day was introduced depending on the infection situation, because so many people cannot work at home when they are ill and that there is a significant risk of increased spread of infection if people, so to speak, cannot afford to be at home when they are ill. This concerns a very large group. And a lot of people can't work at home. They are preschool teachers, bus drivers, business assistants, and home help staff — a large group, so to speak. Madam President, I would like My question to the Center Party and Aphram Melki is how the Center Party feels about the temporary withdrawal of Karen's Day. My second question is how the Center Party views itself more from a public health point of view. I'm curious about that.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-167	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for the question. We in the Center Party have been involved in the support measures that were taken when the pandemic started in 2020. Among other things, the companies were compensated, which we were very happy about. They also removed Karen's Day. We haven't been against that. There is one point to the fact that in these exceptional circumstances you can help. We know that many people are not going to work when they are sick and so on, so that we can reduce the spread of infection. We think that's okay. But in general, we think that Karen's Day in a normal situation is an instrument that should not be removed. It is a labour market measure that has to do with the willingness to go to work and which overshadows the other. Normally, then, we are not in favour of the withdrawal of Karen's Day.
i-TVx7dtY15AN5ebFVvTbHXL	Madam President, I would like There was direct news from the Center Party and Aphram Melki about the temporary removal of Karen's Day. Normally when we don't have a pandemic – we hope we'll be there soon – doesn't the Center Party and Aphram Melki see Karen's Day as a risk of people going to work even though they're sick? I know a lot of people who can't work at home. And my picture is that Karen's Day for families with low income and poor economics, such as single mothers, is a scourge. So sometimes you are forced to be so economical with your family and children that you go and work when you are dirty. It's never good. Karen's Day is therefore not a good thing for public health. And my picture is that people still go to work to a large extent. They go to work. It is not 20 percent who are on the couch and are on sick leave because there is no Karen's Day. I think it's a very wrong picture that you send out to people who can't work at home – to the bus driver, to the preschool teacher, to the business assistant and to the others who can't be at home. Some people can afford to be home. Karen's Day means nothing to them. For others, it will be a huge economic setback. On the whole, this is a major aber, somewhat negative, for public health and for the spread of diseases other than covid-19.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-173	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for the question. I see, of course, a concern that there are groups that are economically more difficult than others. But the Center Party believes that it is a labour market measure that would strike the other way and in a negative way if the withdrawal of the Karen Day were permanent. The incentive to stay at home gets a little bigger if you feel snuvy and do not have covid-19 and there is no karen day. I'm talking about what it's like normally. We have had very long periods of sick leave in the past. There are different categories of people who have heavier jobs. Then you have to look at other measures to help these people and facilitate their work. But removing the Karen Day permanently is not something the Center Party is behind.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-175	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a good, important and clarifying debate. It is always nice to come to the end of the debate precisely because you have heard all the good arguments and precisely because you can actually take something with you. That is how democracy should work. Madam President, I would like The Covid-19 pandemic has killed 5 million people worldwide, and it is not over. Health care in Sweden is exhausted. People who today become ill in something completely different from covid-19 or who have an accident risk not being able to get the care they should be able to get in Sweden because the care has been busy and because the care has been serviced because of the pandemic. There has been a lot of thanks from the speaker's chair to those health workers who have worked around the clock every day of the year – and all the years, as it is now becoming – to make this work despite the shortcomings that have existed. I agree with these thanks. We should also be concerned about what lies ahead. That is why the Liberals support the extension of this law, simply because we see that the need continues to be great. Madam President, I would like This is also legislation that we have to weigh against a lot of other things. This is not just about the spread of infection and disease and the consequences that it can have. It is also about freedom of movement, freedom of assembly, property rights and freedom to conduct a business. Both the right to life and the right to property, the freedom to conduct a business, the freedom of movement and the freedom of assembly come out of all individuals' rights to their own bodies. Ultimately, all these rights, including that care should work, are about to boil down to the individual's right. That's why the Liberals have followed up. We have followed up on the fact that, when we continue with this legislation and when the new law comes, we must strike a balance not only from a public health perspective but also from other points of view, such as fundamental rights and freedoms. There, the Liberals have received a great deal of support from the committee. That is why we have chosen not to follow up on that motion, but we have achieved what I see as a consensus in committee and sent it to the government that we need to weigh off more things and have a broader perspective. Madam President, I would like It is also from this perspective that the Liberals have previously argued and are now arguing that the most important thing in pandemic legislation will have to be the requirement to keep a distance – not other restrictions, which are actually not needed if people keep a distance and are not as effective. One such example is the opening hours. It has been a rather ridiculous sight when the state tried to impose restrictions on opening hours. Absolutely, people haven't been out partying till 4:00 a.m. anymore, because you haven't got that. But instead, people have started partying at four minutes after noon, around lunch. It has been the case, Madam President, that such restrictions have proved not to work, simply because people quite easily get around them. They're not working. What works is to keep a distance, and keeping a distance is also not as much a restriction on business freedom, freedom of assembly, property rights and freedom of movement as, for example, restrictions on opening hours. That is why it is important for such legislation to be effective and balanced. Madam President, I would like In this context, I think that we should also mention this issue of covidpass or the use of vaccination certificates. In the debate and in the tone of the government at press conferences and other press appearances, it has sounded like a further austerity of the covid passports. That is not the message that has been conveyed in committee or at other times when the government has not had a press microphone and a camera in its face. On the contrary, it has sounded like the covid pass is supposed to be a relief. Restrictions on pandemic legislation are introduced, but if you have covid passports it should be a relief. This would mean having a free choice as an individual. You can either vaccinate yourself and get a proof that you can show, and then you get freer leeway, so to speak, or choose not to do so and then subject to more restrictions. But it also means, and perhaps that is the most important thing in this, that traders and others who organise different events can choose. Do you want to follow strict restrictions, such as distance, which we have been through, or do you want to introduce vaccine passports into their activities and then get a little easier restrictions? If the vaccine passports are used in the latter way, the Liberals are very positive about them. We have formulated and emphasised this in the past. However, if the vaccine passports were to mean a further restriction, then we would be quite critical. It is important that the government adheres to what has been conveyed in talks outside the media and does not push on with the rhetoric that has been mediated. Here, too, it can be said that pandemic passports can already be used today. The person who has an event may request a passport at the door that shows that you are vaccinated. Vaccination is not a ground of discrimination. It is not discriminatory to say no to someone who is not vaccinated. We have laid down what constitutes discrimination, and this is not one of them. It's not weird. In fact, it is also part of the freedom to conduct a business that you can say no to anyone you want as long as you do not discriminate. Madam President, I would like Let me tell you something else. I see that my time has expired, but since I am not the one who reported my time in this debate, I am taking that freedom. The Corona Commission deleted the fact that the government has been slow in handling the pandemic. It's been a hating. The big problem with this, I think, is that it has damaged confidence in the measures that we from the state decide on. I was contacted by one person this week in the run-up to this debate. It was not one of the mass mails that went out, but it was a person I knew who told me about his situation. They have a child who attend preschool, but because preschools do not have confidence in the public's actions, they face a lot of tougher restrictions than the restrictions and recommendations that come from the state. This isn't the idea either. I think that this is an important contribution: you should not be tougher than the restrictions and recommendations that come from the Public Health Agency, because it strikes a balance. The Public Health Agency strikes a balance between different things. The spread of infection is one such thing. But the need for preschool education for children to be met is another such thing, and one must weigh things against one another. It does not have an individual preschool teacher's competence to do; it does not have an individual pathologist's competence to do so. This must be done as a balance between several professions, and this balance is being struck by the Public Health Agency. The last thing I want to say is that I would urge those who listen to this debate to follow the restrictions and follow the recommendations, but trust that the balances are made and that they are done in a reasonable manner. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I should like to point out that Members are always responsible for the time they have been notified. )
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-195	Madam President, I would like I've used a lot of time. I want to do that; I think this is an important discussion, and it has also become a rather good discussion. Thank you for your speech, Joar Forssell! I would also like to thank you for the closing vote – that the recommendations should be followed. If something else happens along the way, like this preschool, I think you should take on it and look at it. My question concerns Karen's Day. Yesterday, together with the Public Health Agency, the government announced a temporary end to the Karen Day for disease protection reasons. It's about a lot of people not being able to work at home. It is a large group – bus drivers, preschool teachers, teachers, health professionals, care workers – who cannot work at home, and some of those people are also severely affected financially by the Karen Day. My first question to Joar Forssell and the Liberals is how you see that the Karen Day is being lifted for a period of time. My second question concerns something a little interesting. We are talking about infectious diseases of various kinds in this debate. I wonder how the Liberals view Karen's Day in general. Is it something that benefits public health, or is it something that you want to remain? Is it something that makes people healthier, or what is the Liberals' attitude toward Karen's Day?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-200	Madam President, I would like On the first question, the answer is clear: Yes, we think it is positive that the withdrawal of Karen's Day in connection with the pandemic. It is reasonable to do so in certain situations. The answer to the second question is also clear: we think that the Karen Day should remain when there are no special situations, such as this pandemic. We see that there is a balance between different things, and that is a reasonable one. But I understand that the Left Party wants something different. The Left Party has wanted that even before the pandemic, you should be honest with. The legislation we have had is a reasonable balance. We have no proposals to change it. But we need to be able to be flexible when faced with the kind of situation that the pandemic entails. It is interesting to note how the Left Party is using the pandemic. It is free for all parties, but the pandemic is used to bring forward a lot of other policies that you are always passionate about. Patents are another such thing. It was highlighted in the speech by the Left Party that it wants to abolish the patents for vaccines as they currently stand. We are critical of this on the part of the Liberals. We believe that it is important to have clear patent legislation that creates incentives for innovators to contribute, in this case pharmaceutical companies, to the fight against pandemics. There are other such examples. When you listen to the Left Party in this debate and in other debates about the pandemic, you can see a pattern of the Left Party raising all kinds of issues that it is always passionate about. All parties are fully entitled to do so, but I do not believe that the Karen Day outside the pandemic should be interpreted as a pandemic issue.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-206	Madam President, I would like We also look at the pandemic from a public health perspective, and then other issues arise. Of course we run our questions in parity with the pandemic. Thank you for your answer on Karen's Day. As far as patents are concerned, it is very interesting. It is not only the Left Party that is running this, but it is also France, the United States, the Health Association and Doctors Without Borders, for example. We in this country, Joar Forssell, have full coverage. Like the whole West, we have bought a lot of vaccines and will be able to vaccinate us several times over. At the same time, we can see that vaccination rates in Africa are horrifyingly low, and it cannot be said that we in the West have contributed directly to getting vaccinations started in Africa. Of course, Joar Forssell of the Liberals, we will live in the realm of mutations if we do not do something united around the world. If, precisely during the pandemic – precisely in the situation we are in now – one could lift the patents, it would mean a great deal, not only for Africa but also for everyone in this room. I am very worried that we will live with this if the vaccination coverage in the world does not get higher, specifically in those places where you have extremely low vaccination coverage and where the number of people who have received two syringes is almost zero. I do not think it would be good for public health, democracy or anything else. I find it very difficult to understand that a party like the Liberals, who have previously been very interested in other parts of the world and who have had an international pathos, cannot look at this issue from a public health perspective and from a fair perspective.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-212	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the concern that the pandemic will have new mutations and increased spread and that there will be new infections. However, I do not share the euphoria of being able to use the planned economy rather than the market economy to meet the needs of pandemics. The Liberals were in the January agreement pushing for more resources for Covax. After all, money, infrastructure, skills and so on are needed to combat the pandemic in other parts of the world. There, Sweden has a responsibility as a major aid country – where we share our view. As far as patents are concerned, the right to something that you yourself have invented creates opportunities and incentives for more people to participate and contribute to development because you get something because, for example, you come up with a new vaccine. It is interesting, Madam President, that the Left Party highlights the USA as a good example; it is not usually the Left Party. In this case, however, I actually think that the USA is a bad example. The US went out and talked about the desire to abolish the patents, but at the same time they had an export stop for raw materials and things needed in the manufacturing industry for vaccines to be produced. It's not that vaccines are some Breaking Bath business and that you can stand by your stove and cook it up a bit anyway, but you need these things. Parts from 30 countries and from 90 companies are needed to produce these vaccines. Then we need free trade – then we need goods to move freely around the world. There will be no one, two, three or ten five-year plans from the Left Party. We need free trade, and we need patents.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-217	Madam President, I would like It feels fun, and a little bit unusual, to be back in this Chamber after three years at the Government Office. It feels honourable and important to participate in a debate about something as urgent as how we handle the covid-19 pandemic. In recent years, I have worked very hard on this at the Government Office. I have worked to prepare measures that were required to halt the pandemic's progress and alleviate the consequences for society. I have followed the work of testing and vaccination and tried to ensure that as few people as possible become ill with this disease. As has been the case with many of you, huge efforts have been made by large sections of society and by health care in recent years. Unfortunately, a great deal will be required of us in the future. This has been, and continues to be, an incredibly important task for us and, of course, for the government. Covid-19 will be a major challenge for the whole of society and for the world for a long time. The spread of infection is now increasing again everywhere, even if it looks better in Sweden. We have less strain on health care, and we do not have the same level of infection. However, it is very worrying, and it is going very quickly. That is why we are seeing new restrictions and recommendations that are taking effect today. It will continue to be a period in which we will have to think, keep our distance and do what we can not to exacerbate developments. Nevertheless, we seem to be in a better position than other countries. Much of this is about the fact that during these years we have had a high level of vaccination coverage. We have a lot of people who have gone and vaccinated themselves. However, we need to keep working on it, because it is not yet a problem that people do not vaccinate. It also looks different in different parts of the country, with the third dose and in different areas of society. There's still a lot of work to be done there. We need to continue our efforts to facilitate the availability of vaccines in other countries. One of the last things that the Green Party was involved in preparing and making decisions in the government was to donate 1 million doses of vaccine to Rwanda. Sweden has done a great deal to ensure that the world has much more access to vaccines. We need to continue this work – otherwise the pandemic will be prolonged, and the mutations are at risk of getting worse than today. It is also important that we follow up the work on the measures that are being developed and ensure that they are logical and proportionate. One of the most important ways of getting people to know trust in society, and thus also wanting to help and want to vaccinate themselves, is that they feel confidence in the measures presented. It is important that people know that the measures come at the right time, that they are proportionate and that they do not last longer than they are needed, but that they are there when they are needed. It is therefore also important that this is something that is made clear in this report. Today, therefore, we are debating the Government's letter Continued validity of the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites. These laws have been developed to ensure that there are more tools than were previously available to prevent the spread of infection. In the past, there was only the blunt law of order, which, on the one hand, affected certain areas and sectors very hard, and, on the other hand, could not be used in other parts where this had been necessary to reduce the spread of infection. These laws now exist. They are temporary but necessary, and they will continue to be for some time to come. Now you can have more accurate measures and target the tools needed to keep people away or to impose restrictions much better than before. The reason why these laws have had to be developed is that unfortunately Swedish legislation was not adapted in the way required for this pandemic. Now we have much better opportunities to do something. These laws can introduce different types of restrictions, and the government and the Public Health Authority have presented in a few different steps what may be required if more are needed. We can hope that we do not end up in such a situation, not least because the high vaccination coverage means that despite a high spread of infection we have fewer people in need of medical care now than last year. However, restrictions can be imposed on bathing houses and trading venues, private gatherings and public events, for example. As we all know, the Public Health Authority considers that these laws should apply for a further period of time. It is good that the letter on what measures have been taken has gone through and that we continue to follow up that work. It is also positive that we are already looking at what tools we need in future pandemics, so that we do not end up in situations where we do not have the tools that we need in future at risk of pandemics. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-231	Madam President, I would like More than 70 sentences have been tightened. Some thirty acts that were previously unpunished have been criminalised. A historical expansion of the entire Swedish judiciary is under way. The target of 10,000 more police workers is well on track to be reached. A major expansion of the prison system is being carried out and the capacity of the courts is being significantly strengthened. We have changed Swedish criminal policy. Never has so much been done in such a short time. It is an important and purposeful work that we have done since we got the voter's confidence to form a government. We've done it as Social Democrats. We have done so in cooperation with the Green Party as a government. We've done it together with the Center Party and the Liberals. This work will continue as a party and as a social democratic government. Sweden can do better. We have a situation that is serious, and the country needs more cooperation, not less. It is my conviction as chairman of the Committee on Justice and as the first speaker in the debate on Category 4. Much has been done, but more needs to be done. The penalties for gang-related crime will be further tightened. The possibility of using secret coercive measures preventively to prevent serious crime is investigated. The punishment for perjury, abuse of justice and the protection of criminals are sharpened. Anyone who commits more crimes should be punished harder. Criminal protection against psychological violence shall be strengthened. The penalties for violence and other violations in close relationships are tightened. This, together with a series of other reforms and efforts, will continue to strengthen the judiciary in the fight against both gang crime and men's violence against women. It will provide sharper and more effective tools for our authorities and, step by step, continue to push forward society's fight against crime in our society. Madam President, I would like More cops? Yes, of course. More severe punishment? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Enhanced Correctional Services? Yes, of course. But is that the solution? No, it's just part of what we have to do. If we do not break the new recruitment from the queue of young guys standing in line to take over when we pick a gang leader, unless we are able to ensure that the first battle never takes place in a relationship or does not succeed in breaking the destructive man standards that exist in our society, we will never succeed. Only by combating both crime and the causes of crime will we succeed. In our vision of the strong society, everyone, no matter who you are and where you live, can feel safe all hours of the day. You can move freely in streets and squares and in your residential area without feeling insecure and anxious. You can trust that the police are there when they are needed and that they have the time and resources to investigate crimes. This is a broad exercise. We've come a long way, but there's still more to be done. The strong society never backs up for serious organised crime or gang crime and does everything to make ordinary people feel safe. The strong society never backs up from one of our biggest social problems, namely men's violence against women. Basically, it is about equality, about everyone's right to a safe upbringing and existence no matter where you live or who you are. Madam President, I would like I can promise that in this debate some will sing the eternal demonstration of the opposition that it is too little and too late, despite fairly limited changes in what you are presenting yourself. Reducing crime and increasing security in society requires both effective law enforcement work and crime prevention, involving many actors in society. It is essential that more crimes are prevented and more crimes cleared up. Therefore, this year, I can think that the most interesting thing is not what our spending area is added for money but which parts of society are paying for the party. Of the great speeches about unity and government power and the negotiation of an alternative budget, there was still a tummethott. The idea in the proposals is directed at ordinary people. Labour market policy is being strangled. When you say no to extra services, no to introductory jobs and no to government spending on labour market training, unemployment and exclusion increase. The investment support for rental and student apartments is slaughtered. They say no to renovating our millions of programme areas, when we know what needs we have and how segregation will increase. The Funki tax will not go away, and climate investments will never happen. Family week goes from a reform for ordinary people to being defoliated from money. There is only the right for those who can already afford to take time off to accompany their children to a development discussion or to be at home one day when the preschool or school has a planning day. For me, politics is a whole. Broad efforts are needed to break the segregation that leads to poverty and hopelessness and that fattens gang crime. The changes made by the right-wing conservatives, even if only 20 billion out of 1 137 billion, are not a good policy for Sweden. Madam President, I would like In order to increase security in our country and strengthen society, we must mobilise ourselves in the fight against organised crime. Early efforts for an equal school, stronger social services and welfare, as well as strengthened legislation and effective tools for police and law enforcement are crucial in the fight against crime. We must fight crime and, at the same time, combat the causes of crime. In this way, welfare policy and criminal policy are intertwined. So is our budget. As we see the budget as a whole, we choose to follow practice and refrain from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-248	Madam President, I would like It was not that everything Fredrik Lundh Sammeli said was bad. It was, of course, a description of the reality of the long-term return of the judiciary. Many omissions have been committed in this area. However, in my line, I thought to limit myself to the fact that we need to invest more in the police in order to increase the recruitment within the police. It is good that we have five so-called normal – ordinary – police training courses in place. But they're not coated. People don't go to the police. We have also opened up a functional education, which is welcome. Now you also start with a workplace-oriented education for people who may not primarily have another academic degree. There you should be able to study in half time. Many good efforts are being made by the agency to suck for people who are fit to be police officers and carry out this important mission. If we are to reduce crime and increase security, more local police officers are important. In our draft budget, which unfortunately falls, we in the Liberals have made a salary effort on the police to continue what has been going on during the parliamentary term and which the government omitted. We think it's about pay and leadership. We also believe that this is about the working environment. There too we need to do more. Cops should not be desecrated, humiliated and hated at their job. We must make it clear that there is a limit to this. All in all, we must take action against this. Let's talk about the budget. We have the resources allocated to this, but the government chose to refrain from spending on police salaries. Why?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-251	Madam President, I would like I share Mr Pehrson's commitment to police matters. It is important that the agency is given the opportunity to grow and that we do not repeat the historical mistakes when governments have cut back on police training. It is important that we keep the target of 10 000 more police workers and that politics does not stay there. It is about both recruiting and maintaining and working with the attractiveness of the profession, as Mr Pehrson also pointed out. This can be done in different ways, for example with functional training courses and an opportunity for people who work civilianly in the authority to read on to the police. The government has met in this budget. The police are an authority that has received many billions of historic contributions over these years. I am absolutely convinced that attractiveness is about education, career opportunities, pay, work environment and much more. I think this is important work for the parties in the Swedish model to manage, and I think that even with the budget that the government is presenting there is an opportunity to invest in attractiveness.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-253	Madam President, I would like If it were enough! Nevertheless, the police authorities themselves have said that there is a huge gap after these salaries, which they want to continue with. In fact, negotiations with the police union are in progress right now. They are calling for this. You don't want to deliver. We wanted to deliver. I believe that the majority has now also partially delivered on this. That's very good. But we need to see the reality that once again means that more and more police officers are leaving the profession. We have an increasing curve. Then we must face this. It's indecently low pay for anyone who starts out as a cop. We need to increase attractiveness and get the right people to join the police profession. After all, we want police officers who can be monologue police officers when needed, but dialogue police officers at the beginning, so that crime can be reduced on the ground and the crime in progress can be stopped in the best possible way, but also able to arrest people. It's sad that the government doesn't want to spend money on police salaries.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-255	Madam President, I would like The government is investing heavily in the Police Authority, has done so for many years and will also do so in the future. Police salaries are an important part of attractiveness. I assume that the police authorities are working on the budget they have on these issues in the future, just as we, together, social democrats and liberals, during the period of the January agreement's cooperation, pointed out that this is important. Then I think that politics also needs to be honest. It may sound very good to say that we are spending a lot of money on police salaries. At the same time, the Police Authority itself is clear about the problems it creates internally when politics tries to govern in detail. I believe in the Swedish model. I believe in the parties and that they best deal with these issues. The police department is getting money.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-257	Madam President, I would like I noticed that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli addressed a lot of other areas, which are outside of Category 4. It may be noted that every day you get information about shootings when you look at your phone and as soon as you open a newspaper. Now that we are debating the budget for the judiciary, it will be a little too strong to argue that we, on the side of the budgetary alternative parties, are putting forward a policy that will increase unemployment. What if Fredrik Lundh Sammeli took the time to examine his own policy in this area for the last seven years? The aim was to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. The result of this policy is that we are now at the top and have the highest unemployment rate. It is a parenthesis – I think we need to focus the debate on the area of expenditure, Madam President. I would like to ask a question about the concept of a thumbnote, which Fredrik Lundh Sammeli used. Police salaries were previously under $5,000 for a quarter of the police in external service. The 360 million in targeted money for policemen has now meant that only 4 percent remains under $5,000. Police in external service and police in the core business, in investigative activities, need to be paid higher wages given the risks they face when establishing order and security. This is why it is so remarkable that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli describes these initiatives, which for individual police officers are about thousands in the pay envelope every month, as a thumbnote. It is not good enough if you are serious about us doing everything we can to stand up for the Swedish police and ensure that they have the conditions and powers but also the salaries they deserve. Why are the Social Democrats against it and describe it as a thumbnote?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-260	Madam President, I would like I assume that Mr Carlson heard the whole speech. I made a criticism of the right-wing reform of the budget. Yeah, it's a thumbnote. You make a big deal out of government ability and unity. They say that they are ready to take over the government of Sweden, but negotiate for a long time. Five in twelve deliver something that doesn't mean much change. It should be made clear, both in this budget debate and in all other budgetary debates, that the vast majority – over 98%, I believe – of the state budget, including in our area, is basically a policy put forward by a Social Democratic Government together with the Green Party. These are changes in the smaller categories. In our field, it's about 1 billion out of 63. Of course it means changes. This will lead to an opportunity for continued targeted wage initiatives. But the Police Authority itself is not entirely convinced that the tapering and focus you have taken forward in the budget option is successful. It creates new concerns when politics points to some of the police and does not see that it is the entire Police Authority that needs to have those opportunities. However, my picture from the preparation that we have had in committee is that it has become clear to Mr Carlson and others that those changes were not a good proposal.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-264	Madam President, I would like That's not true. We have broadened the wording based on the preparation process we have had in the Committee on Justice. Police pay should go to police officers in external service but also to strengthen the attractiveness of the police profession and intensify the work against serious crime. I understand that there is a great deal of support for this. Madam President, I would like Finally, I have a question. It is about Fredrik Lundh Sammeli saying in the debate that the Police Authority received the funds it requested. But the Political Authority's own financial manager has something else in front of him. They clearly highlighted in the budget base the need to continue the investment in police salaries that they have started in 2019 – 2021 as they see it as an important component to be successful in their growth efforts. That is what the budgetary option means that is now going through. We can set aside 400 million for targeted police salaries for those who support security, order and order. It's not a thumbnote. This is an important initiative, Madam President.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-267	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that it became very clear during the preparation that what was on the table was not good enough. It could have created new concerns even if you were to add money to the police department. The emerging majority also saw the need to broaden that part. As I said in my speech, politics is a whole. It is not possible to stand here and debate criminality if we do not also see what the price is for the budgetary changes that have now been made. Of course, more money is being spent in this area. But it is taken from other important areas. Segregation is one of our major social problems. These are vulnerable areas that pay a high price for the crime we have. But it is also a breeding ground for supply and recruitment.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-270	Madam President, I would like It paints for Christmas, my friends. It hasn't escaped anyone. But I think it's hard for a lot of people in our country to find the real Christmas peace. The night of today there was another explosion, this time in Malmö. The damage was so great that they affected the house facades 30 meters away from the detonation. The night of today there was also a shooting in a stairwell in Huddinge. These are exceptional events and things that really don't belong in such a many other ways prominent and well-developed country as what we have the privilege of leading. However, it can be said that these things are unfortunately happening so often that they do not even always become national news. There'll be a note flickering by. You get used to it. Unfortunately, they do so in a country where the shootings have become commonplace. They happen so often that it becomes just one item or maybe two. Madam President, I would like These problems are not new, but they have accelerated in recent years. It is shootings, explosions, robberies and an insecurity of the Swedish people that is increasing and is now at a record level. It has consequences for people in their everyday lives. They're afraid to go out. They're throwing a worried look over your shoulder. Can they feel safe in school? They worry about loved ones, their children, and their parents. It's not blacking out. It is to describe Sweden for what it is. If you don't see it, you have to be more than legitimately naive, because Sweden actually looks like 2021. It puts its finger on a lot of things. One such important thing is that what we are going to consider here today, the funding for the judiciary, is not just a matter of justice policy. Basically, it is a very ideological question. It's about our freedom. When the criminal gangs take more freedom and take advantage of themselves, they do so at the expense of all the other people. More freedom for criminals means less freedom for all well-being in Sweden. But it also points to the fact that freedom and security are not entirely separate things. Actually, they're connected. You could even go as far as saying that they are different sides of the same coin. Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to feel free if you worry about your physical safety. But it is also very difficult to be safe if you do not feel free. Freedom and security are a couple of concepts that we will need to talk more about how they relate. In recent years, there has been a very sharp increase in the number of shootings and blasts. The problems are in many ways the greatest in Sweden throughout Europe – in the country we live in, in Sweden. However one twists and turns this, however much beautiful-weather policy one wants to use to describe this, as we heard earlier in our speeches here today, it is not possible to get away from the fact that it is a major political failure that it looks like this miserable way in the country that in many other ways is so extremely good. The responsibility for this falls to the government in general and to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson in particular, who has consistently reduced the problems for a long time and given the impression that development is moving in the right direction. It is enough to open a newspaper or to read a wide range of studies from, for example, Brå, or the police's own statistics, to see that this is not the case. The government has refused to act and has done so only when the Riksdag has forced a move forward through a wide range of announcements. Nor have they been able to show the leadership that these very serious times for Sweden require. We've heard that before. The government does a lot of things. It lists different things. But politics is not just to hold press meetings. It's not like most press hits win. It's not even about putting forward the most proposals. It's about the results, my friends. That is the core issue here. The result is as follows: More shootings, more blasts and more insecurity. There, Madam President, is the result of seven years of red-green policy. It is easy to stand in this speaker's chair and list a number of things you have done. It's easy to stand here and seem tough and say: Now there's going to be order; n u we're going to crush crime; d et here is unacceptable. The hard part is doing it. I believe that the Swedish people are tired of politicians who are standing in this pulpit talking tough but who in reality are very weak and who have consistently failed to reverse the very worrying development with more shootings, more blasts and greater insecurity. Madam President, I would like In the middle of the darkness, there is also hope. This afternoon, the Parliament will decide on a budget for the judiciary that will increase resources to the entire judiciary next year. It is clear that this budget for this individual year does not solve all the problems and does not put all the things right. Nevertheless, Madam President, it is an important step forward. The police alone will receive an additional SEK 850 million next year. It is money that will have a great effect. That's also confirmed by the police department. For example, there is a sharp increase in the number of police surveillance cameras. We know these cameras are working. We know that they give people a sense of security. We know they're jamming out the criminals. We know that they make it easier to prosecute criminals when they commit crimes. With the budget that we have put forward, there will be a very large pool of forces for just more cameras. But it is also about raising salaries to our police officers, to those who are out there and who are really the heroes of the entire Swedish people in this serious situation. They come with the budget from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats not only to get the regular wage bill, but they will also get a targeted wage bet. And this is not the first time, but we have done it once before. That wage investment did not want the government parties to build on. They said, "That's enough! I don't want any more money for the police. There's not going to be another crown in a targeted pay bet. We're gonna spend the money on something else. We have an idea for more vacation instead. Let's focus on that! Then we said stop, we're not gonna do that! Our cops are heroes. They will receive the salary appropriations and salaries that they actually deserve, and they will receive this targeted wage investment. Moreover, it is not only for one or two years, it is three years old. And it's not about any small sums. When it comes to the precise allocation of funds, it will of course be a matter for the social partners, as usual. But it is much easier to distribute money if you have any money to distribute, and that is what our budget brings. With the government's budget, there will be zero SEK in targeted wage investment; it is a very important consumer information in the election movement that we are about to enter. But, Madam President, it is not just a matter of ensuring that the police are paid the wages they actually deserve. It is also about making the police profession more attractive. Fortunately, there is now a consensus in this House that we need more police officers. Once again, however, it is not enough to say so; we must also have the reforms to get there. It is troubling when you talk to young police officers and hear that they choose to leave the police profession prematurely. No one goes to this profession to become a millionaire, because you won't. But it is sad to hear from people that they give the police profession a few years and then interrupt their work and choose another profession precisely because they otherwise do not make ends meet. But it's not just about the police. The Security Service, the prosecutors, the courts and the Correctional Service will also receive, with our budget, the additional resources that we believe are necessary to put things right. We are spending more money on this than the government is doing precisely because it is so incredibly high a priority. At the same time, however, I will say, Madam President, that it is not only the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who focus on the judiciary. The Center Party and the Liberals are also putting more money into their budgets. I think it is important to put this on the record of the House. Even the Left Party does. With all due respect – the party that you normally do not associate with spending the most on the judiciary may put more money in its budget than the government does. It still says something about the Left Party today – something good. But it also says a great deal about the government that no matter which party we look at in this House, everyone is spending more money than the government does. Then you can stand and say that you should turn over all the stones. You may well do that, but at the end of the day it is about what you put on Parliament's table and what you are prepared to prioritise. There is a broad political consensus, except from the government, that we need to do a lot more here. With the budget we are going to decide on here today, we are laying down a basic foundation for reversing developments and ensuring that not only the criminals but also the changes needed to reverse the developments that have been bitten down over all these years are tough to talk about. It's darkness, but there's also hope.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-297	Madam President and Johan Forssell! We must be honest and say that the budget of M., K.D. and SD has created some confusion for the police and police. This is what happens when such late changes occur. We fully agree that police salaries must be increased; there is no doubt about that. However, I am rather critical of this way of providing money, because it has proved to be quite a strain in the police department and, above all, between police officers. In fact, 50 percent of police officers will probably get a pretty good pay raise and some may not get anything at all. What would be needed if we really wanted to raise police salaries is a major push in RALS, i.e. the regular wage negotiation. That's why it gets so strange when the Moderates push for a salary set through the Justice Committee meetings where changes take place at the last second one and the police don't know when to make the payment. It has now happened that one has received a mark-up through the ordinary wage negotiation and one payment later. There's no order when this happens. It doesn't feel and feels like something serious, even if the changes in pay have to happen. Lena Nitz, chairman of the Police Federation, has said in the Police Magazine that an upgrading of the police profession must include the entire police force. Now this was adjusted at the last second one, but we in politics must ensure that we do not divide the police force. If we do that, the police profession will never be the attractive profession that we want it to be.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Westerlund Snecker, for the question! We have presented and prepared this policy according to the usual procedures in both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Finance. I don't really understand what would be the weird thing about this. Is there a problem with the opposition presenting its own budgetary options? In that case, it is a little strange, because it is part of the core of democracy. It was so fortunate that this time there was support for our budget. It is also democracy. Democracy is not that a government should only be able to send a budget to Parliament and then get it through without exerting itself or caring about whether there is support. The government had not done its homework, and then it was our budget option that won. It's no stranger than that. If we are deepening precisely in the targeted wage investment, we see that this is not a new issue, but, basically, this is the same system that has been in place since 2018. Instead of saying that the starting point would be that this is something to be added, one might ask why the government parties, supported by the Left Party, wanted to interrupt what has been in force since 2018. We do not interfere in the exact distribution of this. It's never been like that. We allocate funds to the extra-targeted wage investment, and then it will be up to the social partners to distribute them. It's done according to standard practice. We have chosen to broaden the writings a little this year. The focus in 2018 was on police officers in external service. There was a reason for this, for many chose to go from external service to other, in itself important, tasks but not external service. This time we have broadened the wording a little, and that will enable us to invest, for example, in very experienced investigators. I have good hopes that this will be a very good result. Linda Westerlund Snecker is right that it gets a little uncertain for a period of time. But you should know one thing: if the government parties with the support of V had got their budget through, there would have been no money at all. That's really all we know. At least now it's money, and it's easier to distribute money you have than money you don't have.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-307	Madam President, I would like No, this is not a question of democracy. All parties are allowed to present their draft budgets, and Johan Forssell knows that very well. This is a question of whether you want to undermine the wage model that we have in Sweden today or whether you want to keep it. It is not the policy that should point out which working groups should have a pay mark-up. It is the trade unions, together with the employers, who should do so. It is OFR that should put central RALS depending on the brand in the industry. That is precisely where the trade union negotiation takes place. Johan Forssell is driving a change in this way when it comes to changing wages. As I said, I welcome an increase in wages, and I think that everyone in government should have significantly higher salaries. This way, however, undermines the trade union commitment, which is very strong in the police. The League of Police is being eroded, and the police force is being divided. I don't think that's a good strategy. But the police are supposed to pay higher salaries.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-310	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I understand Linda Westerlund correctly, but I think this is a little symptomatic not only for the Left Party but also for the Social Democrats and the Green Party. They say something like this: The police should have higher wages, but there should be zero crowns in targeted wage investments. Try calling a friend, the one who understands the meaning of it! It is not just a matter of saying things; we must also do it in reality. We've been in contact with the Police Federation. They have been very clear that it was this budget that contained the targeted wage investment. They have been in favour of it. We can also say that the police authorities have requested this money, but there was no money in the government's budget. We have also heard from many police officers how much this actually means to them. We therefore believe that this is an important step along the way, both to enhance the police profession and to give our police the compensation they actually deserve and to overcome the problems of attractiveness and the fact that very many people today unfortunately choose to seek out of the profession. Then it's not just about words, but ultimately also about crowns in the pay envelope.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-313	Madam President, I would like Securing people's security is the most important task of the state and protecting its inhabitants from internal and external threats is its primary interest. If this is not achieved, nothing else is worth much. For a long time we have lacked the leadership needed to ensure the security of all those living in our elongated country. The government has failed to reverse the negative trend, and people today feel a far greater risk of crime than perhaps ever before. Unfortunately, there seems to be a greater interest in blaming someone else, rather than actually producing results. It is possible, and even likely, that many of the proposals that are being prepared and that have come into place will have good effects, but these proposals have mainly come about on the initiative of the Riksdag through announcements and not as part of a structured plan based on a clear direction, an idea of what one wants with legal policy in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Swedish justice policy is characterised by a lot of fuss, when we know that cooperation takes us further. Unfortunately, too few people seem to be able to look beyond the temporary gains of opinion, put the party premiere aside, roll up the sleeves and do what is necessary to reverse developments. Because it can be turned around. But it requires that we work together for the good of Sweden and that we devote our time to things that will certainly have real effects on law enforcement capabilities. We need to search for answers in research and promote methods that have good support in evidence and proven experience. We also need to give our law enforcement authorities work and planning peace so that they can focus on their, literally, vital task. We need a long-term legal policy. Madam President, I would like It takes money to solve the problems we face. Even before we started preparing this report, it was clear that our spending area, the judiciary, would be drawing around more than 60 billion next year – a record figure. However, we must be prepared to go further. From the Center Party we proposed an additional EUR 7 billion in the framework period, of which SEK 400 million this year. With the budget motion that reached the majority, we are ticking an additional 800 million to a total of 63 billion. The 7 billion that the Center Party wants to add is about some important things, such as visible presence. The police must be there in the corner of the street and in the square, not just today, but tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, in a year, in ten years. The police authority must be able to mobilise not only for short-term efforts but to meet the threats to people's safety in everyday life, build trust and establish relationships that lead to trust, which makes it self-evident to report and makes it feel safe to tell the police about things you are exposed to. There has been a rapid increase in the number of police officers in the affected areas, but at the same time we see that there is still a shortage of district police officers and, in general, of police officers in external service. Many district police work much of the time with other things and desk work, as noted in the Swedish National Audit Office's report on police work in vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like All parties now agree that the police will be expanded with 10,000 more police employees by 2024. Unfortunately, however, it will probably not be enough. There is a purely practical limitation on how many police officers are trained, but we also need to use our police better. That is why we want, among other things, to raise the salaries of police officers and improve their working conditions, so that more people get into the profession and more are attracted back. We also want to extend the attempt that has been made in at least one police area, namely to hire police support assistants to relieve the police of administrative tasks. In addition, the police, in cooperation with the municipalities, should be able to ensure that there are more security hosts to the particularly vulnerable areas that can provide answers to questions about security, rights and how to get help if you are exposed to crime. We want to strengthen collaboration between social services, schools and police in everyday life so that young people on slide are caught up and separated from destructive environments. The National Forensic Centre must be given strengthened resources to meet the increased pressure for rapid technical analysis, while equipping the whole chain of justice, from evidence-proofing to prosecutors and courts, to prosecute and condemn guilty persons. This is where we want all parties from the judicial authorities to meet. The Centre Party's budget exercise, even outside the specific area of the Justice Committee, focuses on raising the areas affected by increasing the opportunities for young people and vulnerable people to find work, facilitating small businesses and strengthening schools – what can give them hope. Madam President, I would like One cannot make a speech in a legislative debate on the budget without mentioning a specific category of crime – one that affects tens of thousands of people every day, where the suffering is great and the numbers of darkness are enormous. One of the most important reasons, perhaps the most important one, why we need to strengthen the judiciary is that we need to break down the enormous social problem that we call violence in close relationships. We have come a bit on our way, and in the spring we got a lot of momentum on the issue. A few months ago we also debated and legislated on a series of measures that will have an effect. But we can't let go now. The danger is far from over. For those of you who listen to this and know someone who is afflicted, or may be affected himself, I would like to remind you that there is help to get. The situation can be resolved. It may not be easy, but there are good forces that want nothing but to help you get the security you deserve and start building the life you want. N umret to Kvinnofridslinjen is 020-50 50 50. The call costs nothing and is not visible on the phone bill. You do not commit yourself in any way to anything, but there you can get a first help to move on. There's hope, and you're not alone.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-331	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the Center Party and the Liberals have drawn together to push the government towards more sustainable efforts in the judicial system. That's good. After all, this cooperation ended last summer when four parties lowered the January agreement and it ceased. Now we have put forward our own budgets, and then it has been important for the Liberals to go forward with efforts on the police to increase the attraction and get more people to join this mission. We know that the needs are enormous. We have 61 areas that are vulnerable; it was previously 60. We know that the shootings, the blasts and the killings continue and are largely unchanged. We see the enormous spread of clan and gang environments and how they replace the Swedish rule of law with a different legal order in the affected areas. To face this, we need more cops. Not least is it about what Johan Hedin from the Center Party raised last and which the Liberals are also passionate about, namely meeting men's violence against women. It is central that there are police officers who can investigate, arrest perpetrators and ultimately take them to trial so that they are sentenced and put in prison. There's got to be more cops, but there's a lot of places in police training. We need to increase attractiveness. Then my question is how does the Center Party view the Liberals' special and targeted wage policy? Legislation is needed, but money is also needed in the wallet. We also know that it is a central part of democracy that the police have the monopoly of violence and that this is not left to others. How does the Center Party view this venture?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-336	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a very well-proven effort. In our budget motion, we also take up increased police salaries in the 7 billion we allocate to increased attractiveness for the judiciary. But pay is a part; there are several things we need to do to develop the attractiveness of the profession. It is very much about work environment, and work environment can in turn be many different things. Perhaps the most important thing, I think, is that when we go to work we feel that there is a good chance, if we make an effort, to do a good job. I'm afraid not all the police feel it today. Something must be done in the form of leadership and organisation, and the effectiveness of working must be very much controlled. Police support assistants, as we have proposed in our budget motion, are an important part of this and can relieve the police from administrative tasks so that one can focus on one's most important work, namely ensuring security in the local community. Another detail of the whole thing that I think we need to take into this equation to increase attractiveness and also get the right people to apply to the police is to put in the last piece of the puzzle to make police training an academic education. There I think a lot is happening. The Center Party is clearly on that issue, and I would like to put the counter-question to Johan Pehrson of the Liberals if they are on that train now. It actually sounded like that when we discussed this with the Police Federation in a debate this spring, and I hope we can agree on that. That would be an important part of the whole thing. Then I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Liberals on a very wise decision that they took at their country meeting hereabout that the issue of search zones should no longer be pursued, on which we should now agree, is a harmful method that will not have any particularly positive effects at all, but rather dig the ditch deeper between law enforcement authorities and local people all over our elongated country. Thank you for that!
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-342	Madam President, I would like On the question of academic education, the Liberals are pleased that it is in fact offered as an additional supplement to most police training courses. Anyone who thinks this is important and believes that it is the way forward for more policemen can now do this. That is so to say freedom for real. Keep it up, no problem! As far as search zones are concerned, an investigation came here in the days involving search zones after the entire Swedish border – we will see how the Center Party sees this issue – to stop the huge exodus of stolen goods from our country that is going on. The cross-border criminality that exists must also be looked at by the Center Party. Liberals will look at it. But we do it in the light of our country meeting that decides our policy. Liberals want to see a police density at European level. This means that after the turn of the year 2024/ 25 we have reached 26 300 police officers in Sweden and are increasing by another 5 000 police officers. Then police wages have to be raised. I hope the Center Party is a strong player in this future.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-345	Madam President, I would like I'll try to be as strong a player as Johan Pehrson is. His work on these matters is, of course, very impressive. I have learned a lot from Johan Pehrson over the years and hope to continue doing so for a long time. I will answer the question of search zones and visits. It is in no way that we can be against searches. Visiting is an extremely important tool for the police to use, but there should be a suspicion. The Police Act goes quite far in Sections 19 and 20 when it comes to the police's ability to conduct searches. The problem is that it does not do so enough to protect Sweden from the entry of illegal weapons into the country. This is an extremely important task that customs and the police must take even more seriously. There, of course, visits must be carried out. Even in the case of outgoing stolen goods, where customs have been given increased powers, we must monitor this very closely so that it is carried out. I am pleased with the announcement of search zones and congratulate the fact that the political centre has become somewhat wider.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-349	Madam President, I would like For seven years, the government has presented an increase in penalties following an increase in penalties and has given the police several ways to monitor and take in classified intelligence, and today many gang leaders are on long sentences and both the detention centres and the prisons are overfilled. Yet, the shootings are not reduced. Criminal gangs do not become fewer, nor do they become more difficult to use. And security hasn't increased. Yet the government continues on the same track. Again and again, the Minister of Justice boasts of the number of penalty increases — 70 or more. But the Minister of Justice is not bragging about the decline in violence. It is because the punishment and the number of coercive measures are not the only solution. Of course, some penalties were needed, and certainly some people walking around with guns in the city needed immediate detention. But does that solve the problem of shootings in Sweden? No, obviously not. That's because it takes completely different solutions to stop gang crime. As the chief of police says, the police alone cannot solve the situation. The problem of gang crime has never been about the length of penalties, but that we have a society that has accepted that some young boys in socio-economically vulnerable areas find it more attractive to start dealing drugs than studying. Had society not accepted this, social efforts with social secretaries, teachers and police would long ago have stopped this development. But Sweden has become a country where some should be poor, outside and not part of society, while others should be able to stand in the Swedish parliament and cry for more punishment. The efforts in the area of the rule of law are enormous at the moment. The police are doing a good job of stopping the active criminals. But the recruitment base is endless, and that is where the efforts must take place. What is needed are social intervention groups in each municipality and that social services never have to save and reduce their outreach and support work. And that is where the Left Party spends its budgetary effort: on reducing the gaps and on giving everyone a chance. It is not budget lines that exist in the area of the Committee on Justice, but that is where the difference between a runaway insecurity and a secure society can be made. The Left Party is also committed to quiet violence, to violence against women, to increasing the resources and skills of the judiciary, to keeping rape reports high and to preventing women from being let down because the ban on contact is not being used in the way that is necessary. The Left Party is therefore proposing a femicide package for the entire judicial authorities to deal with men's violence against women, sex purchases and trafficking in human beings with increased violence, legal certainty and seriosity throughout the legal chain. Madam President, I would like The Left Party's budget motion is to be seen as a whole, and we are abstaining from the motion.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-359	Madam President, I would like We now have the budget for the rule of law, for the judiciary. This is something that is not only affected by Category 4. Liberals focus a lot on the police, and that's because we think it's good to have more cops. The best thing about more cops is that they can stop crime from being committed. With more district policemen and more police close to citizens, crime can be prevented, and it is better that a police officer is very reactive and prevents ten crimes a day than trying to hunt down people who have committed ten crimes a day. Of course, both are needed. We can see that the government's proposal went on the pump. So did the Liberals' proposals. It was then the second best proposal that won with the alternatives of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, and we have already come some way in the debate on that. Then I would like to say: was it really the case that the Liberals did not have the most money? We want to see this as a whole. When we meet police officers in the field and meet the police officers responsible for development, for example, and for combating and counteracting serious violence, gang crime and the horrendous shooting and murder, they say that they have great difficulty doing this through just the police. They say: We can't figure out the 331 unsolved murders and attempted murder just in the Stockholm Region right now. Think! Even if the whole Parliament were to sit and sort out all these, it would not be possible to move forward anyway. Thankfully, it is very professional people in the police who are working on this. But they're too few. One of the heads of the National Operations Department said that some 1 000 new young recruits per year are involved in serious organised crime. It is believed that there must be broad work on early and clear efforts. In another budget, which could have been adopted in this House, the Liberals are investing in the same process, in which before Christmas we are going to set the state budget, a huge amount at school. We spend 14 billion on the school over the three years under discussion, of course 2022 but also 2023 and 2024. We do that because it starts at school. We know that passing grades 6 and 9 and finishing high school is the best vaccine against being drawn into this environment of death and misery, which affects one's own, one's family, one's area and the rest of society. It goes hand in hand; it's preventive. That is how, in the long term, together with efforts in not least social services, we must attack and face this problem. We are also clear, as I have mentioned in some lines, that there must be more police officers in place. The dropout is starting to increase again. More policemen are again starting to leave their important mission. It's about compensation for the job you do. And it's about leadership and the working environment. As far as the latter is concerned, we in Parliament have plenty of proposals to deal with, such as ensuring that people cannot stand and in practice shout policemen in the face and be totally disrespectful to them and their missions. Gangs of all sorts of weird people come up with, stand around and act threateningly against police officers who are going to make an intervention. By the way, I like one thing that our Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said in his government statement: Then I wonder why those men who show up when the police intervene are not in a workplace. I would like to hear that from Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, the representative of the government. Everyone who can work is going to work. But where are they? There must be something these people can do. They can stand and yell at a wall and get paid for it. But they shouldn't be yelling at the police. It is also about being able to feel that you are doing an important job, beyond the intervention situations. The police experience it as terribly unconsoling to arrest a drug driver again and again, for the thirty-seventh time; but nothing happens. You see this discount system that provides huge discounts on sexual crimes and on offenses. And you see that things should be written off, that they should not be investigated or that preliminary investigations are limited. Nothing happens, and the criminals come out again and stand grinning at the police. It is clear that we must respond to this if we are to recruit more police officers. Liberals' vision is that by the end of the year, we will reach 26,300 police officers. We've reached the number of civilian employees. Now it's the police that's coming through. We see the need to achieve a European cut, not more and not less. We need to reach a European average for the number of police officers to be able to work preventively and to ensure that district police officers, in close cooperation with schools, social services, companies and organisations, are able to build that society and ensure that young people, especially young boys, are not drawn into this senseless violence and killing. I usually describe it as almost a total mental ice age. Long-term efforts are needed here. But the police are absolutely central. I also think that we need to discuss how we in the Committee on Justice should respond to it and ensure that the police can cooperate better with the school and social services in order to get early and clear action. I am pleased to hear suggestions and ideas about starting to intervene sooner and more clearly. Liberals have always argued that it is easier to sue in the stream than in the river. It's a famous expression. In this mental ice age, with the fantasy poverty and hopelessness that one experiences and the de facto criminality into which the kids are drawn, one must react early. Society must intervene if there are no consequences from first-line managers, that is, parents who in different ways are not capable – we will make them as capable as we can, but if that is not the case, society must intervene. First crime is supposed to be the last crime. It's absolutely central. It also requires police officers who work closely. We also need to remove this enormous, meaningless secrecy. It is great that there is confidentiality within the authorities in Sweden. But there should be no one between the authorities. The confidentiality from the police to the school and social services and back applies to the information you pass on. It is not in this way that the Chairman of the Committee on Lundh, Mr Sammeli, should have a clear view of everything. But the authorities that are responsible for preventing and combating crime must be given it. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals have stated in our special opinion that we had another option. But we look forward to delivering in the spring on the space provided by the budget and look forward to further important legislative changes for a safer and freer Sweden.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-372	Madam President, I would like The Liberals had a country meeting a few weeks ago. It was interesting for everyone interested in politics to follow, at least for me. It emerged here that during the country meeting a lot of decisions were made that at least I thought were good, Johan Pehrson. You endorsed the 1% target for aid. You said no to the proposal that has been made on language requirements for permanent residence permits. There was also a decision that the principled approach or similar approach to permanent residence permits should be pursued. You said yes to gender education in preschool, which in the long term is important for tackling crime. And you said yes to the protection of public services and the independence of culture and so on. In the field of justice, you said no to search zones and anonymous witnesses. How do you think you're going to do those things together with Jimmie Åkesson?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-375	Madam President, I would like Both the Green Party and the Liberals should wait for the election results. But I am absolutely convinced that, when we go to elections next autumn, there is a strong room for a clear liberal party among the Swedish people. Rasmus Ling now presents a number of issues that are important to us liberals. I haven't been in Parliament for 20 years by chance. I have wanted to be here fighting for liberal ideas, and I am absolutely convinced that there is strong support for a liberal party that wants to change government, after so far seven and almost eight years of navel viewing and strangeness. I can list everything from energy policy to mass unemployment, care queues and a pension system that does not deliver to the most vulnerable, although important efforts were made at the end of our cooperation in the January agreement. Madam President, I would like At our country meeting, important political proposals were adopted for a suburban lift and for a policy for the communities throughout Sweden to be able to live. We have a new school program. We have a modern energy policy that does not give us e bills that are like rockets. And we have delivered new proposals in the field of justice. In a liberal party, it is in that way that no one alone is in charge, but we have a broad and important debate. We got support for more cops. In practice, that means 10,000 more police officers. We received support for a substantial criminal justice reform, so that we end up with this pointless system of rebates. Life's time is to be met by a progressive increase in punishment. We took big steps to confiscate crime profits. Most people who commit crimes do not do so because they are by definition sadists but because they do not want or can work and instead commit crimes. We adopted new proposals to protect women from violence, and we also took huge steps to work against honour-related violence and repression. This will generate broad support in the elections. And by the way, I can talk to all parties.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-381	Madam President, I would like The liberal ideas referred to by Johan Pehrson appear mostly as fleeting thoughts rather than something long-term ideological. It is great that the Liberals also apply member democracy, but when you not only change your position on the margin but from one week to another there is no real sustainability in the whole. It was not long ago that the Liberals wrote a debate article together with M, KD and SD on a number of proposals in the area of justice. Now the Liberals no longer stand for it. This applies, for example, to search zones and anonymous witnesses. Madam President, I would like My question to Johan Pehrson is therefore: Can Johan Pehrson really say that the Liberals are clear in this area?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-384	Madam President, I would like Liberals are seeking support for a new government in which we want to join and be a liberal middle anchor. It will be a government that has to address the problems caused not least by Rasmus Ling's party, the Green Party. I do not know whether Mr Rasmus Ling has ever received an electricity bill. If so, he would be surprised, especially if he lives in a terraced house, a low house, or a villa. He will have a shock, something that affects many Swedes outside this room. Speaking of our cooperation: We do not think the same as the Moderates or Christian Democrats in everything, and we definitely do not think the same as the Swedish Democrats in everything. But there are a number of measures that need to be taken with a new government. For this navel viewing, self-glorification and denial of reality, which not least the Green Party stands for, must end for the sake of Sweden, for the people of Sweden and for the sake of the integrity of Parliament.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-387	Madam President, I would like Security is a prerequisite both for individual freedom and for trust between people and solidarity in society. Developments over the last decade with an increased number of open street shootings must be broken. Unfortunately, fatal violence has always occurred in Sweden, but some things that are happening now differ from what it was like before. One such difference is that the perpetrators of these crimes are younger. The serious violence and other crime in these environments is extremely dangerous. Leaders of criminal gangs use children recruited to commit crimes. Many things need to be done to reverse this. I am very pleased that an investigation has been set up to look at sanctions for young offenders, i.e. those convicted under the law on closed juvenile care. It should have been added before, but it is very good that it has been added now. Not least, social services need increased powers. It needs sufficient resources around the country. School is also something that we must never forget in this context. Between those who have graduated from primary school and those who have not – or even more between those who have graduated from high school and those who have not – the difference is enormous in terms of the risk of entering crime, among other things. Madam President, I would like Another thing that differs from what it used to be is that the actions take place in public, open environment, i.e. in streets and squares. Previously, the murders usually took place in a closed room where technical evidence can be obtained. It's much harder on the open street. This also makes violence much more evident in people's everyday lives and closeness. Madam President, I would like One aspect of this is the harsh and strict culture of silence in these groups. Those in these environments do not testify, and this is spreading. I've been talking to cops who told me about when they've been hit by gunshot wounds young people on their way to the ambulance. They made it that time, but even then they don't talk to the authorities. This is dangerous. Many do not dare to testify, and others do not because of the culture that exists. This is dangerous if it also spreads. Madam President, I would like You can discuss punishment and increase punishment. We have had both the discussion and done something about the implementation several times in the debate and in the House, and there is certainly more to come. The problem is when offenders who have committed crimes are not caught and convicted. Then the scale of punishment doesn't matter. Getting more is therefore the most important focus. That is what we must give the most priority. In this context, the tools and resources of the responsible authorities are crucial. The police have been given more authority, and further powers are being investigated. This has also been done to other authorities. The authorities are growing, and they will continue to do so. But this is not just a matter for the police, but the whole of society must rally around it in order to fight crime. Madam President, I would like Next year, Sweden will be governed with a budget that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats are behind, although it will be administered by a Social Democratic government. This is the eleventh budget of the last 16 years that is bourgeois. On two of these occasions, the S- and MP-government has been able to change this to a large extent by amending budgets. It took place in 2015 and 2019. None of the amending budgets reduced the appropriations allocated to the authorities under Category 4. I think that this should be carried along, because it means that responsibility for the situation lies not only with one or two parties but with several. These developments have been taking place for a long time. In recent years, the judiciary has been strengthened. A lot of resources have been added, but this has happened from a far too low level. As I said, my own party is not the exception to responsibility, but it is not, for example, the Moderates, the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats. With this, Madam President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the report.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-399	Madam President, I would like Law and order are the most important issue for Swedish voters. It is an issue that probably takes up a majority of the discussions that take place at coffee tables, breakfast tables and dinner events around the country. Today, we are debating the distribution of the budget in the area of expenditure which concerns this major issue. As is well known, we have succeeded in getting a voice in the Committee on the Budget Reserve of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, which means that both the Green Party and the Social Democrats and a couple of other parties instead have special opinions. I have a question about that. Let me quote from the Special Opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party: ..................................................... It is possible that there is a clear link between preventing recruitment and making climate investments. It's not obvious to me. The question therefore becomes: In what way do we now risk new recruits entering gang environments increasing as a consequence of the fact that we on the part of the Swedish Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats do not endorse the kind of symbolic policy in the field of climate that they have from the government?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-403	Madam President, I would like In this area, there is a difference between what the government presented to Parliament and what was then passed. It has been said even before in a couple of lines here. 800 million to the police is absolutely money. It's a big budget, but there's absolutely a difference. It can be noted that all the authorities got what they had wanted in the process when they told the government what they thought they needed to do their job. The authorities were thus given the resources they requested. Then the opposition has made its own reservation, which went through, and there it was an increase. Of course, there is no head of government who rejects more money. Then there are things that have been removed. It is mainly in other areas. The fact that Tobias Andersson, Madam President, calls it symbolic policy does not surprise us because we know what our attitude is towards environmental and climate policy. It denies that climate change is happening and does not care about these issues at all. This was incredibly bad politics. I very much regret the fact that it was achieved and made the major cuts on, for example, protection of a valuable nature. However, in the proposal that we had, as I said, we gave the judicial authorities the appropriations that they requested.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-408	Madam President, I would like It may well be noted that there are differences of opinion as to whether or not the Office's wishes were met. Rasmus Ling apostrophes the opposition, perhaps old-fashioned. But nowadays he's part of it. In fact, we are both part of the opposition, according to our two parties, at least occasionally. But what I'm asking is how climate action can be important to stop re-cruiting to gangs. That is what you say in your particular opinion. I don't see the connection in between. I do not see that there are people out in society who are now in danger of falling into gang crime, as by chance, because we from M's, KD's and SD's side do not go forward with the state buying private landowners' forests. I do not understand who is in danger of becoming a serious criminal because we do not want to buy private landowners' forests. Can you explain that, Rasmus Ling, because this is in your particular statement?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-411	Madam President, I would like Yes, it was part of the opposition that got its budget through. It wasn't all opposition parties. Nor was the Left Party on the budget reservation that was decided. It was just M, KD and SD. Then there were some other parties abstaining. But it is true that we are now part of the opposition, and we will act as an opposition party. It will also be noticed in different ways. Madam President, I would like As regards the specific opinion, it was a description of the budgetary options as a whole. It is an extremely poor policy to cut back on protection of a valuable nature in the way it did, and on energy efficiency, as many have done in the field of energy. It's an incredibly bad policy. But this was a description of the entire budget and the options available.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-414	Madam President, I would like I'll quote from an interview: I think many would recognize themselves in my history. It starts with school not working, from an early age. You walk away from school, and then you meet those who have also passed away from school. It'll be a vicious circle. It is a quote from an interview with a young person, as well as a famous artist, who was recently murdered on an open street in a central part of Stockholm. There are many young men but also women and others who have been injured. These are children who have been exposed. They are affected by the terrible violence that has spread and persisted in recent years, when Rasmus Ling has been responsible for the policies that have been pursued. I know, Madam President, that Rasmus Ling shares my view and the Liberals' view that spending on school is very important and that it is the best vaccine. Covid vaccine is available. But there are also vaccines against misery, crime and death, and the best we have is completed schooling. One thing that came quite early in this term of office was the 34-point programme. At the time, Rasmus Ling, as a representative of the Green Party, it was indeed the case that no tougher measures should be taken to prevent the interception of suspected criminals. You would not remove the penalty discount except for murder if it were for young people under 21 who had committed the act. There was little desire to see punishment tightened up. The Green Party slowed down the government in areas by area when the rest of us tried to find a broad agreement. That's when it fell apart. Then the government has returned. That's good. But how does Rasmus Ling want to investigate 331 unsolved murders and attempted murder in Stockholm?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-418	Madam President, I would like When I made my speech, I pointed out a shared responsibility in which many parties should have done far more in the past. Liberals do not seem to want to make such a confession, but to point out healthily to others and do not want to see their own part. That is the case, Madam President, despite the fact that the Liberals are actually the party that has been behind the most budgets in the Swedish Parliament in the last 16 years. In addition to having been in Parliament for 20 years, Johan Pehrson has also been deeply involved in the cooperation that we have had during this parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like I think the 34-point programme presented in autumn 2019 was good. That was a lot of action. It was a matter of increased punishment. It was about more tools. It concerned measures to overcome the culture of silence. It was a strong programme, which has been implemented to a large extent. But there are still things left. But, Madam President, just because someone has an idea of a solution does not mean that that idea is good. Not all the suggestions are. There were such examples in those discussions. The examples that Johan Pehrson is now developing were actually partly included in the 34-point programme. Several of them have now also been done. For example, we have removed the penalty for young adults who commit serious crime.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-423	Madam President, I would like Of course, me and the Liberals have been involved in making decisions that have not always been perfect. We know everything when we look in the rear-view mirror, but looking forward we don't know. Right now we are discussing the lack of Swedish police. We agree that there is an emergency shortage of 5,000 police officers. It's a flaw. You don't fill the police training. You make up a lot of other, certainly good, efforts to get more people to come to the police, but it's empty now. That is the question. The huge police structure that was built when the alliance government took over led to a huge number of police officers. The mistake that was made was that police training places were then reduced. It was a mistake. That was wrong of me. But I never heard Rasmus Ling protest, I can say. You'll have to show me that record if you do. But now it's 331 unsolved murders and attempted murder. There are 5 000 police officers missing - we agree on that. I mean, we're missing 10,000 cops. Why doesn't Rasmus Ling want to raise their salaries so that more people are recruited?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-427	Madam President, I would like We'd like the police employees to have higher salaries. I have not understood that there are differences of opinion on this issue here in Parliament. In terms of whether to do so according to the Swedish model, which has actually served and still serves Sweden very well, or whether to do so by changing appropriations in this House, we think differently. But the most important thing for those who are out working is what is actually in the pay envelope then. I am pleased, Madam President, that Johan Pehrson is self-critical when it comes to how to cut down on educational places. From the Environmental Party in Malmö we shouted during these years after getting a police education to Malmö but was rejected by Johan Pehrson and his alliance friends. I am pleased that one has come about in recent years and that we can now train policemen who are prepared to go out and work on the streets. It was a pity that it did not come earlier, for it takes time to strengthen such authority.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-430	Madam President, I would like 中 Crime and insecurity are spreading in Sweden. The judiciary is underfunded and for a long time out of priority. An irresponsible, unconditional migration and integration policy has created even greater segregation. Trust in the police and the judiciary is becoming less and less. At the same time, radicalism and extremism around the world are creating new problems, with terrorists moving more easily across borders and with new technologies threatening what was previously safe. The central task of the state, to safeguard the security of its citizens, is under threat. ..................................................... This is how we started our area of expenditure exercise for the judiciary. Since it was written, much has happened. It has been two very eventful months in Swedish politics. This turbulence reached its peak when Sweden on 24 November got its first female prime minister ever but got rid of her within the space of seven hours. The reason for this mess, which is likely to be somewhat difficult for many to keep up with and fully grasp, is the budget. It was in itself something new and a big step forward for the Swedish Democrats when, for the first time in 2014, we voted for the Moderates' budget option after our proposal had fallen, and we were thus the tongue of the wave for a budget decision. Since then, much has happened, and today such action would not be considered a great success for us as a party. What we managed to achieve this autumn, however, can only be seen as one of the greatest successes for us as a party. We have negotiated an SD-M-KD budget and heard it in this House. The report we are debating and deciding on today has therefore been adjusted so that the draft decision is not the government's budget proposal but the joint draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Now, perhaps so far in this speech, it has sounded as though this in itself is the great victory for the Swedish Democrats. Although this is the case, it is the biggest winner in this judiciary, which is now receiving substantial additions to its activities. Because, just as I began my speech, Sweden is in an extremely serious situation. Sweden is no longer the safe country we were once so proud of. Sweden has changed and been neglected by ruling politicians for a long time. Sweden has among the lowest police density in Europe but at the same time is described internationally as one of Europe's most dangerous countries. Sweden deserves better than that, and it was against that background that the Swedish Democrats, as in previous years, focused proper efforts on the judiciary in our budget motion. All in all, it was 4.5 billion in addition to the government's budget for 2022, and a majority of the effort would go to the Police Authority. With 1.5 billion in special salary investment, we would encourage employees to stay at the agency and create incentives to recruit police officers who are currently working with other things. Through EUR 870 million in paid police training, we would further strengthen the attractiveness of the profession and make it easier for those who today are thinking of going to the Police Authority but cannot afford to return to the school bench. Through 200 million in investment at the National Forensic Centre, we ensure that their long-undersized and underfunded operations can obtain the resources needed to provide an invaluable tool in investigating crimes. Madam President, I would like We have further investments in the Police Authority in our budget exercise, but there are also other things to be found. The Swedish Democrats realise that there are other parts of the legal chain that also need increased powers and resources, which is why we also direct funds to, for example, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Courts and the Swedish Correctional Service. In symbiosis with the policy proposals we are pursuing, these budgetary efforts could have really helped reverse developments in Sweden. With such a policy, we would have been able to guarantee a more secure country in the long term. But it didn't really get that good. You can't have everything you want. We have negotiated with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, and some of our efforts have had to stand back. In practice, however, this means that we have now agreed on something that constitutes a significantly better proposal in relation to the government's budget proposal. In our common budget option, the judiciary is not allocated 4.5 billion as the Swedish Democrats had wanted in 2022 but 1.5 billion, which is now becoming a reality that it has gained a voice in both the committee and later today the Riksdag. I am proud that the three of us, more or less conservative parties, have been able to sit down together and deliberate, negotiate and land in an overall draft state budget with significantly better priorities than the previous government. The justice system will be the big winner. By abstaining from typical Social Democratic election frenzy as family week and typical environmental party symbolism such as buying forest from private landowners, there were resources left for us to invest in the judiciary – the political issue that voters consider to be the most important and one of the areas neglected most by former state ministers. I'm proud of that. I am proud that Parliament has already voted in favour of an SD-M-KD budget framework and today will vote in favour of SD-M-KD-M-KD's proposal on distribution in most areas of expenditure, not just this. Madam President, I would like I look forward to seeing the cooperation that is now growing up and really working to get Sweden on the right course. Having said that, I shall do something I am not familiar with, that is to say, in favour of the committee's proposal in the report as a whole.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-449	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in the midst of a pandemic. But we also have an epidemic — an epidemic of shootings and blasts. The development of crime in Sweden can only be described as extreme. Serious organized crime is tying up an increasingly harsh grip on society. City after city is put in terror. Statistics from Brå show that Sweden is at the absolute European peak when it comes to lethal gun violence per capita. The police have 331 ongoing investigations into murder and attempted murder only in Stockholm, linked to shootings and explosions. The situation is particularly serious. Through the Committee on Justice and the Riksdag, the opposition has brought before it the government in question as requested. We have had this government in place for seven years, that is, we have had seven years of red-green policy. It's a matter of looking at reality. Has it gotten better or has it gotten worse over the years? For the Christian Democrats, it is clear that more needs to be done when it comes to prevention. We also have in our budget – which we are not discussing today – a considerable effort on a parental support programme that should be available throughout the country to strengthen support for parents so that they can assume their given parental responsibility. It is one of the most important preventive measures. However, when we discuss Category 4, Madam President, it is also a very clear priority for the judiciary. There we agree with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. A total of 1.2 billion more is being made available in this area. It is only by creating order and security in streets and squares that freedom can increase for everyone to live their own lives. Women and men should feel safe going out into their neighborhood. Parents should be able to let their children out to play. Newspaper distributors shall not be required to use assault alarms. Store owners should not have to close down because they are being threatened and blackmailed. Hardworking people should not be terrorized by criminals, but violence today limits citizens' life space – and children end up in the firing line. We also see how people don't dare testify in gang crime. Officials, both municipal and state, experience discomfort when doing their jobs and hesitate to report crimes. This erodes both the rule of law and democracy from below. Gang crime is a poison in our society. It is currently the greatest threat to the security of society, and it must be fought with full force. This means both considerably increased penalties for gang criminals and resources that meet the judiciary's need to fight crime. Madam President, I would like This is also about all other crimes being suppressed at the same time: rape, violence in close relationship, assault, burglary, fraud, robbery or other crimes against a person. Extensive measures need to be taken to combat everyday crime and to increase the security of citizens throughout Sweden. All the authorities in Category 4, the major judicial authorities, will receive additional funding. The police department will receive SEK 850 million more next year. Security gets 50 million more. The prosecutor's office will receive SEK 80 million more. The courts receive SEK 50 million more, and the Prison Service receives SEK 200 million more. I thought I'd go over every authority separately. The police authority receives the very large and necessary addition of SEK 850 million. Almost half of the millions go to a targeted police salary initiative, which has already been debated in the House. It is about increasing the number of police officers in external service but also about strengthening the attractiveness of the police profession and intensifying the work against serious organised crime. The increase is escalated by 400 million years one, 2022, 800 million SEK 2023 and 1.2 billion 2024. We see this as absolutely necessary in order to reach the target of 10 000 more police workers and to enhance the profession and give the police the salary they deserve when they week in and week out, out and in, do their utmost to ensure the safety of our streets. Of course, increased police salaries are not enough. We also need to make sure that it is more severe to punish police officers, shouts impoverished words and taunts for police officers and violates police officers. Today it is a higher bar for convictions. Here, the crime against civil servants needs to be re-introduced, as the Christian Democrats have proposed. We also hope to get support for this – but later on, Madam President, not today's vote because the issue is not on the table. Madam President, I would like I was going to spend a few minutes on the other parts of the justice system. It is often the case that, when investing in the Police Authority, it will be the authority that is most debated. The Prosecution Authority is being pushed forward with today's decision of SEK 80 million more. That's a lot of money for the District Attorney's Office. I would like to remind the House and the audience that last year the government forgot the EUR 49 million that had been requested, which was in danger of having major consequences for the prosecutors. What, then, can 80 million dollars lead to? According to the Public Prosecutor's Office, who visited the Justice Committee during the preparation process, this means that it is possible to recruit more prosecutors, provide more support to prosecutors with the help of review lawyers, analysts and prosecutors' resources. It can be ensured that experienced prosecutors stay by making pay for prosecutors. The necessary IT initiatives can be implemented and the security of prosecutors can also be strengthened. The 80 million are extremely important for the dimensionalisation of the judiciary to be linked. When we strengthen the Police Authority, the Prosecution Authority must also be strengthened. Similarly, the courts will receive SEK 50 million more next year. This amount is expanded to SEK 100 million more in framework increases for the years that follow. This has already been prepared and will be distributed to the courts, giving more opportunities to hire and secure the business. We will contribute SEK 200 million more to the Correctional Service to further strengthen and accelerate the planned capacity expansion for detention, detention and care. The budget which today appears to win the approval of Parliament, which spends 1.2 billion more on the whole of the judiciary, is a powerful reinforcement. Of course, in terms of winners in the budget, the justice system is the winner. But this also applies to the entire Swedish people, who are now getting a budget that gives the judiciary stronger muscles to fight gang crime and the everyday crime so that Sweden becomes safer. We can now overcome the problem of crime. Madam President, I would like Once again, it is the Riksdag that takes the step ahead and shoots the government in front of it by providing the means necessary to take the fight seriously.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-466	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an interesting debate so far, although I have to say that I have not heard much new from the opposition. This is the same policy of overbenders that has been going on for seven years. It is not being pretended that the very great efforts that the government has made, even though every person who follows the issues knows that we have had an extremely high pace of reform in this area. This is because we fundamentally changed Swedish criminal policy when we took office. The Moderates had devoted a very weary interest to this policy area during the years of their government. There were almost no penalties, no major projects to set up cameras, a wet blanket over the data storage issue, virtually no improved interception possibilities and no reinforced terrorist legislation. Even the terrorist voyages you could not ban, even though it was travelled to Syria at its worst during the years 2013– 2014. Even the Moderates couldn't clear out during their reign. I could make the list as long as possible with questions that the moderate-led government then didn't care about. You were sleeping during your reign. When it really was, when the money ran out in the treasury, what was it that had to be ironed on the foot? It was police training. In two years, you reduced police training by over 90% – to finance your tax cuts. This was the case when the Moderates ruled Sweden. Who did this? Yes, it was among other things Johan Forssell. Forssell actually worked in the Government Office during the alliance years. Johan Forssell hardly wants to feel this now that you talk to him. Soon he will have erased from his CV that he has even been in the Government Office during these years and worked for Reinfeldt, but so it was. My question to Forssell is therefore: what did you think when you reduced police training by 90%? Did you understand the long-term effects of this? In his post Johan Forssell talked to me about leadership, but no, Johan Forssell – when it comes to leadership, I don't take any lessons from you. It is easy to stand in opposition in the speaker's chair, get wide and pick on the government with the increasingly tired message of too little and too late – and then just promise one thing than the other. The citizens know, however, that the right wing never delivers. For when the situation is sharp, tax cuts always go before the judiciary for the Moderates. When we took office, we changed politics. Since we took office, the Ministry of Justice has submitted over 300 proposals to the Riksdag, and everyone has gone through. There have been over 70 punitive measures and recent criminalisations. 450 cameras have been set up, and there have been record applications for funding to the judicial authorities. There are completely new tools for police and prosecutors to get to crime, and we have new police training. This is also remarkable: despite the high tone we hear from the right, the Moderates have never started any new police trainings, even though they have had the chance. We Social Democrats started police training in Växjö. It was we Social Democrats who started police training in Umeå. This was 20 years ago, during Laila Freivald's time as Minister of Justice. It was we Social Democrats who started police training in Malmö a few years ago, and it was we Social Democrats who started police training in Borås a few years ago. Those who now stand here talking far and wide about how important it is to educate police officers have never cared about it themselves when they have been in power. One of the most fun things that is available as Minister of Justice is just to visit the places you have been and decided on – to visit the police trainings, meet the students and talk to them about their ambitions and expectations, wander around the premises, see the practice environments and visit the shooting ranges. It is the celebration of politics when you see with your own eyes what you have been involved in and decided on. Johan Forssell will never be able to do that, because you cannot walk around in a tax reduction. That is the case: it is we who have delivered an enormous amount both to the judicial system and in concrete terms over these years. You say that not all places in police training are filled, and that's true. But we're working on a much bigger suit than you did. At the end, you were content to train 600 to 700 police officers a year, and when it was at its lowest, you only brought 142 police officers in in one year. You were content with those levels, and then it is not difficult to fill the seats. But when you go up to 2 000 places a year, which is our level of ambition, it becomes of course more difficult. Moreover, if you are to do so year after year, in order to have a long-term perspective in the growth of the police, it will of course be more difficult. We have about 2 000 seats per year, and by 2020 it was adopted in 1 950. In 2021 it was slightly fewer, partly due to a pandemic effect, but we are working on to be able to stay at those levels. We are doing this in order to meet the mission we have, namely the objective we have set for there to be 10 000 more employees in the Police Authority by 2024. So far, everything points to that goal being achieved. So far, the number of employees has increased by over 7,000. Many of them have been civilian workers so far, yes, but as I said, the great hills are coming out of the new police training that we have started. Thus, every six months new police officers come out in the business, and right now we have over 3 000 police students in education. That's the highest number ever. To sum up, we now have more policemen than ever. The judiciary has more resources than ever. We have better tools than ever. We've got more surveillance cameras than ever, and we've got tougher penalties than ever... at least in modern times. In addition, we see a record number of police are now being trained, fewer police officers over time actually quit and more police officers are returning to the profession. Of course, I am very proud of this, but it is not over there – quite the opposite. We will continue with this very high pace of reform, and we have two priority areas: gang crime and men's violence against women. For these areas, we have two very ambitious programmes that are now being rolled out gradually. It is a 34-point programme against gang crime and a 40-point programme against men's violence against women. I noted that the Moderates did not mention men's violence against women in a single word in the debate. Johan Hedin did it, and Linda Snecker did it, of course. But not a single syllable of this came from the Moderates. It is, of course, because you do not care about that issue, Johan Forssell. You do not care about men's violence against women, and therefore you do not raise it in the debate either. You never talk about it. We do so, and these are just two priority areas that we are working on. We have a wide range of measures, both repressive and preventive, and work that spans broad areas in virtually all departments. That's what you do when you turn every stone around. So there will be a series of new measures now – practically every week, I would say. Last week, I was able to present new ways of taking coercive measures in preliminary investigations, such as the possibility of collecting information stored in cloud services and of confiscating text messages between relatives. Today in the morning, I presented new proposals in which we tighten up terrorist legislation and the law on special foreign control on the important issues of national security. Soon there will be tougher penalties for gang criminals, increased possibilities for detention, tougher penalties for abuse of justice, Crown Witness systems, increased access to criminal money, tougher penalties for sexual crimes and much more. So you can look forward to hard work in committee this spring, because now, week after week, the government will deliver legislative proposals after legislative proposals and initiatives after initiatives. I am, of course, keen to get all this important legislation in place and therefore hope for a good cooperation with the Riksdag in order for it to be so. I think you are as concerned about this as I am. All these essentially repressive measures are rolling, and for this very reason I think it is even more important that we now also highlight the second important element of a modern criminal policy: prevention. When you talk to the police in the affected areas, they almost always say three things. They say they need to be more cops in place, and they are now. Then they say they need better tools – more cameras, better wiretaps, tougher sanctions and increased arrest possibilities. They're getting all of this now too. Then they almost always say one more thing, and it's: Keep in mind that it's not just about us! Then they mean the police. If this is to work, we need not only a strong police force and a strong judicial system in general; we also need a strong social service that can catch up with the young people who are about to go wrong. A good leisure activity is needed so that young people who may not always have it so easily at home can have a positive development – perhaps through sport or music end up in different contexts than they otherwise move in and get other role models, simply. There is also a need for a strong school so that every young person is given the very best opportunity to come into the labour market later and find their place. We need to talk about this more. Of course, from the state side, we can do some things. Now until the turn of the year, for example, we are beginning to subsidise LVU transfers so that it will be cheaper for the municipalities when they have to take in and take care of a child or a teenager who is suffering ill. We'll bet almost half a billion on it. This spring we will be presenting proposals to the Riksdag that municipalities should be given a statutory responsibility to work crime prevention, and it is certainly about time. It is mainly municipal activities that need to be strengthened – social services, leisure activities, childcare and school. Can we then demand this from the municipalities? Yes, of course we can demand it! The municipal sector went over SEK 50 billion in surplus last year. It is clear that we can demand that some of that money be spent on preventing crime. In Stockholm we have big problems when it comes to shootings and explosions – we have a Stockholm problem, I would say – and only Stockholm went with almost 5 billion in surplus last year. Of course, we should be able to demand that increased measures be put in place to prevent crime in such a municipality. These surpluses are, above all, money that the municipalities have received from the state, but it is also surpluses that are emerging as a result of the strong growth we have today in the economy. It is clear that we can demand that municipalities use some of this money for social services, school and leisure activities, rather than reducing taxes. Isn't that reasonable? I saw this morning that a number of moderate municipalities have instead chosen to lower the tax on the money they have received from the state. Rather, strengthen welfare and help prevent crime! I guess that's more important after all. We need to invest in social measures. The whole of society must move in the same direction. Every cop, social worker and teacher in the affected areas knows this. But it does not get the right, at least not to judge by the policy you are now pursuing. The last time you got your budget reservation through – it was in the autumn of 2018 – you went for the state money to lift the vulnerable areas. You went to social services, school and leisure activities in the vulnerable areas and took this money away. This time you are going in another area, which is at least as serious. But before I tell you which one it is, I want to clear something up first. It is when we talk about the budget issue that we are wrong to say that we are now going to steer a right-wing budget because you got your reservation through. In fact, 98% of the budget that will apply to 2022 is made up of the red-green proposals. You can get changes that apply to less than 2% of the state budget. This in itself is a negotiating failure on your part. So you could not agree on more than 2% of the budget. How will the Moderates, KD and SD be able to control Sweden when you can't even agree on more than 2 percent of the budget? That's a good question to ask. You could say this is bad enough. If you look at the 2% you touch, you will see that you systematically strike at things that could increase justice, raise our ambitions in climate policy, as we talked about earlier, or mean a lot to ordinary people. You are focusing on just such proposals. Last time, as I said, you went to school, social services and leisure activities in the vulnerable areas. What, then, is it that you are embarking on now, which may have a bearing on crime? Yes, it is housing policy. You are slaughtering government efforts to increase housing construction. We have managed to get housing to record levels. It is now built more than in 20 years, especially rental apartments. The investment aid that now exists, about 4 billion, has helped not only to increase construction but also to push down the rents so that ordinary people can afford to live. Now you are going after those investments and abolishing them, and you are asking: what does that have to do with criminal policy? Then I say: it has everything to do with criminal policy. One of the major problems in the affected areas is overcrowding. It is a question of a child not being able to have a calm corner to read his or her homework in and that home conditions can be so bad that young people are driven out to hang out on the city instead and thus become easy prey for the criminal gangs who want to recruit them. This is something that every cop, social worker and teacher knows, but obviously the right does not know – or you do not care about it, quite simply. In those circles where you move, the richer social classes, this is never a problem. There's a house in town and one in the country. They have already put money away for their children so they can buy a right-of-occupancy apartment when they are 20 years old. But for those who need these investments in order to get away from overcrowding, you are putting away the bones of that kind of policy. It is pure class politics, directed straight at the low-income earners. Of course, this will also have an impact on crime, perhaps not directly and immediately but indirectly and in the long term. If these major social policy problems are not solved, of which overcrowding is one of the greatest, crime will never be dealt with. In fact, this should also be learned by the right wing at some point. With this, Madam President, I look forward to a renewed and, I hope, broader criminal policy discussion, where we can focus on combating both the crimes and the causes of the crimes.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-500	Madam President, I would like The Alliance government carried out important things in the judicial system. For example, the number of policemen increased more in those years than Morgan Johansson has succeeded in his time as Minister of Justice. But sure, not everything was done right there and then. But what did Morgan Johansson do back then? It's easy to come now and be hindsight. But when Morgan Johansson was chairman of the Justice Committee and had the chance, there was not a peep on these issues. Then the strong proposals he is now talking about were not put forward. It's easy to be hindsight. But when Morgan Johansson had the opportunity in opposition did not come a peep. We now have an acute security crisis in our country. It does not really matter, Madam President, how many press meetings Morgan Johansson holds – it is the results that count. And those results did not mention Morgan Johansson : more shootings, more blasts and greater insecurity. There we see the results of seven years of red-green government and seven years of the Minister of Justice we have had. If we are to be able to reverse this trend, we must invest in the judiciary in a completely different way than before. The budget put forward by the Social Democrats and the Green Party is the worst in the class. There is no party in this House that adds nothing more than the Social Democrats and the Green Party do. So if you want really little money for the justice system, Morgan Johansson's alternative is a very good choice. But we reason differently, and we prioritize differently. For example, we invest in our police officers, the heroes of our time, and in getting more money in the pay envelope. In fact, they are worth it, for the work they do, but also for us to recruit more. But the Social Democrats are voting against this. You are voting against it now, just as you have done years in a row. Where, Morgan Johansson, have you received the inspiration to take money from the judicial system and invest in increased grants and more holidays, when we live in an emergency security crisis? Tell me!
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-506	Madam President, I would like That's a strangely asked question. We don't take any money from the justice system. On the contrary, we are spending more money than the judiciary has ever had. They get every penny they've asked for and for the police even more than they've asked for. We are not taking money from the judiciary; it is completely wrong. As far as the Alliance government is concerned, you spent a year or two on police training. Then the money ran out in the Treasury because you had reduced the tax so much. That's when you pulled down by almost 90%. You can't treat the biggest authority in the state that twitchy. Long-term development and long-term investment are essential. That is why we set the target of 10,000 more employees by 2024 – to create that long-term. My question to Johan Forssell was: How did he and the others who worked at the Government Office when they reduced police training by 90 percent in two years? Did Johan Forssell not understand what this would mean in the longer term? Is this what we have to wait again if the Moderates were to take office, this twitchiness and that tax cuts were to be given priority over the police? On the issue of wages, I can only say that police salaries have risen more during our time than they did during the alliance period. The average salary for a police officer is now 38 394 kronor, in August 2021. It has increased by almost 6,000 SEK since we took office in 2014. Police salaries have risen more during our time than they did during Johan Forssell's time in the Government Office. I think we should be careful about wage issues as such. It is not the Riksdag that should decide who should have a higher salary and what the wages should look like, because then we will eventually tear apart the whole party model. That is why I do not want to go that way, because in the end all professional groups will be the subject of discussions here about who should have the highest pay. Then we will tear apart the whole partisan and labour market model.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-511	Madam President, I would like It is true that there have been wage increases in recent years. And why is that? Because Parliament has adopted an M-KD budget, which the Social Democrats voted against. It is easy to stand here and take credit for the politics of others, but when it really is, the Social Democrats are not up to the task. Then you take money. Your alternative means less money in relation to the budget that is now going through. Then you spend money on grants, more vacations and a lot of other things. It's easy to stand here and pretend, but what really matters is what you do. What will happen if there is a bourgeois government, asks Morgan Johansson. I can tell you. We will get more police officers, we will speed up recruitment work and we have a new target of 32,000 more police officers. During the alliance government, more policemen were added than Morgan Johansson has been able to produce. We'll also make sure cops get paid more. Let me repeat my question: why is the government voting against the targeted police salary scheme on higher salaries for our police officers? Why, Morgan Johansson?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-515	Madam President, I would like Again, the average salary of a police officer is just over 38,000. It has increased by 6,000 during our time. Police pay has increased more in our time than in your time. The basis for this is the agreement concluded in 2018 between the Police Federation and the Police Authority – long before the Riksdag entered into a decision on salaries. How far is Johan Forssell prepared to go? Should the Riksdag also set salaries for nurses, doctors, firefighters and midwives? Aren't they heroes in society, too? When you go in and start to touch this, you fuck up, which turned out during the preparation. That's exactly what Johan Forssell did when he was going to lock it up to the police in external service and it turned out to be completely wrong and he had to change it. Will this money go to police officers in Säpo and at the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency? When the Riksdag takes over the wage formation from the parties, it increases to the wage formation. I would like to see higher salaries for police officers, but it must be with the preservation of the Swedish party model.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-520	Madam President, I would like We now have a socialist one-party government that does not govern its own economic policy. As you know, it was the budgets of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats that went through. The Government says that 98 percent of the government's budget is intact, and the Prime Minister has described it as marginal adjustments. Clearly, the parties that got their budget through do not interpret it in the same way. On the contrary, they have celebrated and seen it as a big thing. There are a number of months left before the elections. We have a spring budget ahead of us, and at the moment there is no indication that any other constellation will get it through. I do not think that my parties and those of Minister Morgan Johansson would have any problems getting along. We have done this before and had good cooperation in many ways. But other parties do not want to talk to each other or sit in the same room, i.e. the Center Party and the Left Party. Should we get an election result with the same constellation in the Riksdag, we have not then resolved this problem either. Madam President, I would like There is talk of marginal adjustments, but over a period of time there will be a lot. Among other things, a job tax deduction is introduced. Will we have a term of office when four additional job deductions are implemented instead of the money going to school and social services? Will Morgan Johansson accept this situation?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-524	Madam President, I would like It is 98% of the red-green budget that goes through. So it is 2% that is changing, and half of that money is about a change in the tax cut. We also wanted to reduce taxes on disabled and unemployed people, while the opposition only wants to reduce taxes on wage earners. The aim is therefore to preserve the tax gap and to tax the unemployed and the sick. I would say that this is a sign of pure class politics. The reservation is 2%. It is in itself a serious negotiation failure for the right. The fact that M, KD and SD sat all the way to the end and negotiated but couldn't agree on more than 2 percent of the budget is a sign of how Sweden risks being controlled if things go really bad. Nor does the right have a majority in favour of its proposals. The right's reservation did not go through by majority, but because it was the largest minority. That is the parliamentary situation. How are we going to live with this? First of all, we have to make it through to the elections. When the voters have distributed their votes, we know what the parliamentary situation is. Keeping right-wing extremism out of the government is something I really want to do. I can't imagine letting right-wing extremists into the Government Office. If all parties that do not want to do so are convinced of this, we must be able to agree long-term on what the budgetary rules should look like so that we can negotiate them together. I hope for such solutions after the elections.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-529	Madam President, I would like We certainly share the ambition of keeping right-wing extremists outside the government, but I still think that the government and the Government take it lightly that a government must be able to govern with an economic policy that is being supported. The Government mentions again 2%, and I have not checked how previous budgets have been divorced. But we do not have revolution in every change of government, but change is slow over time. It was not the first job tax deduction in 2007 that changed society but eight years of repeated efforts and focus in that direction instead of other things. Many parts of the state budget are fixed. For example, the EU levy of some 30 billion does not concern us. Madam President, I would like I think the Government is taking this too lightly. As a government, one must steer one's economic policy. Otherwise, accountability will also be very difficult.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-533	Madam President, I would like I don't think I'm taking it lightly. However, you always have to think about what options you have. If we had been at the beginning of a mandate and such a budget reservation had gone through, even if it were only 2%, we would have had to consider an extra election. So did we in 2014. At that point, we were prepared to go back to the voters and say that there will be an extra election. But then some of the opposition parties got cold feet, including the Christian Democrats, who risked leaving the parliament. That is why they came to us and wanted to settle, and it was the December agreement. They didn't manage to hold it more than a few months before it burst. Such is the writing of history. My brief answer is: if there had not been only nine months left before the elections, we might have considered an extra election. But now we are here and cannot have an extra election in January or February and then elections again in September. That is why we must rule with the framework set by Parliament, and the change concerns 2% of the total budget, as I said.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-536	Madam President, I would like The 34-point programme, which the government holds dear but which everyone else abandons, states that a national defector programme should be created. But that point seems to be the most difficult for the Minister of Justice to implement. As the Minister for Justice said, the municipalities are running 50 billion in surplus. But it is clear that municipalities do not have the capacity to create the drop-off programme that many people want. Today there are drop-outs programmes of different kinds, but the support is very different depending on the municipality. When SVT asked, 15 out of 21 municipalities replied that they would like to have a drop-off operation but that it needs to be coordinated nationally. Yet the Minister of Justice repeatedly says that this is something that the government cannot help the municipalities with and that the municipalities themselves must take responsibility for. At the same time, I hear the Minister of Justice talking in the debate about the investigation into municipalities being given a crime prevention responsibility, which I welcome. It is really great and something that is needed, but if the municipalities are to have a crime prevention responsibility, why can they not also get the help and support they want to get a national drop-out? For me, this goes hand in hand when it comes to ensuring that gang crime is broken. Why does the government not want to implement a national defector programme?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-539	Madam President, I would like We have said from the outset that we should strengthen defection activities and that it must be improved. Therefore, we gave a commission to the Prison Service, the National Board of Health and Welfare, the police and the National Board of Institutional Affairs to present proposals for measures that need to be taken. It did not propose a national defector programme, but suggested that the municipalities could be strengthened and supported in various ways. With this as a basis, we went further and appointed Stefan Strömberg as the special coordinator for these agencies. Stefan Strömberg is used to doing such things. It was he who was behind the whole project with faster prosecution, which now works very well. It started in northern Stockholm, and now we spread it across the country. He has been head of the National Police, head of the Stockholm District Court and so on. If anyone's capable of coordinating government agencies, it's him. He'll bring me a report in May. Among other things, he has the task of seeing how we can further strengthen our efforts. Then we know that Parliament has allocated additional money – I think there is another 50 million. Then it is good that we can use this money to do so. I believe that there must be an interest of its own in the municipalities. When I looked in the report I saw that there were 80 defectors in Malmö but 30 defectors in Stockholm. Then I wonder what they really do in Stockholm. Stockholm is a problem place right now. It is the municipality where we have the most shootings and which operates this, while the shootings in Malmö have decreased by two thirds in just a few years. Connected to this is Stop shooting. When we get it in place in more municipalities, there will be a requirement to have a good drop-out activity. The short answer is: Stefan Strömberg has a mission and will submit a report to me in May, and we will strengthen the defector business.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-543	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. I hope that the investigation will lead to a national responsibility and governance of the defector programmes. Obviously, municipalities do not have the power to introduce such programmes, whether they go with plus or minus in their budgets. There are good examples, and there are bad examples. The bad examples are often found in moderate-controlled municipalities such as Stockholm. I note that there is strong resistance at home in Östergötland against introducing Stop shooting in, for example, Linköping. These things are connected. Something that I also see is connected is lock-in and lock-out from the prisons. Coming out of the prison and into society again is a critical intersection that would have to be spent more resources on for collaboration to work well and so that you do not relapse into crime.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-546	Madam President, I would like We still have municipal self-government to start from. If you want to influence it, sometimes you have to try to go a little different ways. You can go in with money, and you can go in with different forms of national governance. This is one of the things Stefan Strömberg is looking at. I can assure Linda Westerlund Snecker that our ambition is to raise the number of defectors and give them better support in their situation. In fact, I am a little surprised that Stockholm does not invest any more in it. Stop shooting is a way to promote defection, because it means increasing the pressure on the individual and saying: If you choose to stay, we will hunt you with all the means available to society. This is what has worked so well in Malmö, and this is what we want to spread across the country. This in itself may mean that we simply push for increased investment in defection activities.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-548	Madam President, I would like I have had the privilege of debating with Morgan Johansson several times before and know from experience that sometimes it can be difficult to get a yes or no answer or at least a clear answer to questions. On the basis of what we have to consider today, we know that the alternative which has been heard in committee and which is expected to be heard in the Chamber later today, i.e. the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, in practice means strong efforts on the different parts of the judiciary. The question then is whether Morgan Johansson, everything else equal, believes that it will make things easier, so that it will be better or worse for the judiciary. Will it be better to combat or prosecute crime or not? For example, a couple of these initiatives are SEK 50 million to the National Forensic Centre in 2022, SEK 300 million to cameras and other technology for the Police Agency in 2022 and SEK 50 million to pure defection operations. Then we have not even mentioned the SEK 400 million that we are targeting the police salary initiative in 2022, which the government omitted in its proposal. We also target 50 million extra to the Swedish Security Service, 80 million to the Swedish Prosecution Authority, 50 million to the Swedish courts, 200 million to the Swedish Correctional Service and so on. The question then is: Based on these efforts, everything else is equal and the only thing that distinguishes is the government's unwillingness to invest in this area and the increase in ambition that exists with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats: Is it better for the judiciary with these resources, or is it getting worse?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-552	Madam President, I would like In fact, I believe that most voters find this policy of overwhelming rather unserious. Everyone knows that if I say that I intend to propose two years of extra imprisonment for a crime, you will say three years in the opposition. If I suggest three years, you come with four years, and I suggest four years, you come with five years. It's the same on the money side. If I allocate the money that the authority has requested and even a little more, as we have done now, it is clear that you come and say another crown, a million more or a little bit more, this without any real connection to budgetary demands from the police. There is only one reason: you want to get headlines in the papers. When you make a budget, in order not to waste taxpayers' money and to make it right, you have to start from the authorities' requests. Here, as I said, we have given exactly what the authorities wanted, even a little more. I do not know, but it may be that some of the money that is now being allocated may not be able to be spent for the simple reason that you do not have the capacity to do so. Take, for example, this thing with cameras. I know from experience how long it sometimes takes to do the procurements needed to set up cameras. Now we've put up more cameras than any other government has – we're up to over 450 cameras – but this is one of those posts where the question is: Can you really spend this money if you're going to live up to the procurement rules? It will, of course, be a matter for the Police Authority to try to control this, but it will easily be wrong when you do things from the Riksdag that you may not really know. Wage investment is a typical example of this. First, you would lock it up only for police officers in external service, and then it turned out that it went wrong and that it had to be broadened to get Säpo and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority involved. That's what happens when you don't really know the money.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-556	Madam President, I would like I warned in my previous line that I know that Morgan Johansson is very good at never answering the questions asked, and he succeeded once again in doing just that. It is not a question of a policy of overwhelming. What, according to Morgan Johansson, is overwhelming politics is his own policy a few years later. We have seen this in a number of areas, where Morgan Johansson has initially said that it is overbreach policy and nothing that can be brought forward. But then, when public opinion may have taken off or when he realized that the Swedish Democrats were right from the beginning, he adjusts his legal policy on the basis of the proposals we have already made. Then it is no longer a policy of overwhelming, but then it is the government's balanced efforts. I think it's unserious. We have sat down with the relevant authorities during the processing process. They know how to use this money. So do not blame them. The question I was trying to ask was: Is it better or worse for the judiciary that we are proposing SEK 1.2 billion more for 2022?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-560	Madam President, I would like The misleading thing is when you put forward proposals that you have not really prepared and thought through. Your salary proposal was a typical example of this. First, you negotiated for a long time. Then you couldn't solve things. And in the final stages, you threw something together that might work. For example, you write in this limitation that the increase in police salaries should apply only to police officers in external service. In the further preparation, it then turned out that you had not thought about how the police force split up and what effects it actually has. Then you had to change it. We have police officers not only in the Police Department, but also in the Economic Crimes Authority and in the Security Service. What are we gonna do there? You haven't thought about that either. When, in the final stage and very quickly, you try to control things that you don't have proper control of, we then have to try to solve this. I am convinced that we will be able to make it a workable budget.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-563	Madam President, I would like I note that there are a lot of assumptions and guesses in the Minister of Justice's reasoning. He's got pretty strong opinions, but he's pretty poorly read when it comes to the Secret Service. We write that this addition to the grant can also be used to strengthen the attractiveness of the police profession within the Swedish Security Service. It is therefore possible to use these funds to raise police salaries there too. When it comes to the camera venture, the large addition – SEK 300 million more – means that the police can double the number of cameras according to the Police Authority. There, of course, we have been careful with the preparation both in committee, where the Police Authority has been invited to report on the consequences, and in direct contact. This is therefore not a guess; it is based on the need for substantial reinforcements in these parts. On the other hand, with regard to police salaries, on which I would like to address my question to the Minister for Justice, Morgan Johansson makes an almost epic pirouette. He wants to take credit for the fact that police salaries have been raised to the levels he describes during the time of the Social Democratic Government. At the same time, he is strongly opposed to the targeted police salary initiatives to which the first M-KD budget contributed and which now becomes possible with the budget on the table for decisions this afternoon. He refers to the fact that it is up to the parties to decide on this and to distribute this money. That is absolutely the case. Who are the parties? One of the parties is the Police Authority, where the CFO describes that it feels that it has been clear in the budget base about the need to continue this effort. There has also been a need to increase and accelerate this investment in the coming years. According to the Police magazine, there is no funding for this. The other party, the Police Federation, is also in favour of a targeted police salary initiative. It is easier to reach agreement if there is money to be distributed, Madam President.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-567	Madam President, I would like The average salary for police officers is just over $35,000. This is an increase of nearly $5,000 since we took office. Police salaries have risen faster during our time than during the time when you ruled Sweden. The basis for this is actually the agreement that was concluded in spring 2018 between the Police Authority and the Police Federation and that was the start of such a wage increase. I have always said that if this agreement is complied with, we will ensure that we allocate the money needed for this. Then you want to go in with extra money. And you are doing this for purely opportunistic reasons, I would say. Of course there is a problem that you obviously don't want to worry about even thinking through. Right now we are discussing having statutory minimum wages in Europe. Then the Christian Democrats and the other right-wing parties say: No, we absolutely should not have any statutory minimum wages because politicians should not go in and govern wage formation. You say this in other contexts. But you say, for purely opportunist reasons, that right here the parliament will set salaries. I have nothing against higher salaries for policemen. On the contrary. During our time, police wages have increased faster than elsewhere. But I want the parties to settle their wages and not the politicians. Otherwise, we will have another discussion. I asked earlier the question: Aren't the midwives heroes? Aren't the nurses heroes? Aren't the doctors heroes? What other professional groups could it also be said that the Riksdag should target money in this way? As I said, you are doing this for purely opportunist reasons. Let the parties decide on wage formation in the Swedish labour market. I think that is the fundamental thing. Then we make sure that the state finances this wage development. But please explain to the public how you, Andreas Carlson, can reconcile this with being against statutory minimum wages while pursuing this policy on this issue.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-576	Madam President, I would like If you can't tell the truth about your own policy, it's easier to tell untruths about your opponent's policy. No one is suggesting that the Riksdag should decide on the levels of police salaries. It's up to the parties. Who are the parties? It is the Police Authority, which has made it clear that funds are needed to finance a targeted wage investment, and the Police Federation, which has called for a targeted police salary investment. That is what this is all about. It is about expanding the police salary initiative – SEK 400 million for next year, SEK 800 million for 2023 and SEK 1.2 billion for 2024. It is because we want to enhance the police profession, which both the Police Authority and the Police Association are concerned about. If agreement is to be reached between the parties, it is a small step on the road to having money to negotiate and agree to ensure that wages are raised to new levels. I am proud that we have managed to raise police salaries with the M-KD budget. And now we're taking an important step. Why is Morgan Johansson against a targeted police salary initiative?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-579	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not against increased police salaries, rather the other way around. In our time, police salaries have risen more than they did in your time. And we have made sure to finance the agreements that have been agreed and negotiated. But Andreas Carlson did not answer my question. How can he take a line on statutory minimum wages in the EU, arguing that politicians should not interfere in wage formation, and a completely different line in this area? How does that work out at all? Of course it does not, but, as I have said, it is a matter of some kind of party political opportunism that he is engaged in. It is clear that every penny of the SEK 400 million that has been added will go into the pay envelope. That's what's gonna happen. But if you continue along this path, breaking out occupational groups by occupational group, we will eventually have a very difficult job here in Parliament to decide what different occupational groups will get in the pay envelope.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-582	Madam President, I would like It is not always that you get laid in this Chamber. But self-righteousness, which I sometimes feel happens to me, which I'm sure many people find strange, exploded in Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson's speech. You might think it's Lucky Luke standing next to me here, faster than his own shadow. But he cranks on like Bulten in Bo, as you who know your Emil in Lönneberga understand. With regard to the number of police officers and the lack of police officers, we need 10 000 police officers in Sweden to reach a European average – not more and not less but up to the European average. A good police officer can work in the community and can prevent crime, can interact with school, social services, business, organisations and housing companies and build the strong society where you know that actions lead to consequences. And the most vulnerable people know that those who are there to murder, sell drugs, blackmail and so on go there. I am happy to be at the service of the Liberals if the Social Democrats suddenly come up with new measures against culture of honour, past efforts for young criminals and language requirements. Language requirements Morgan Johansson used to refer to as racism before, so here we have a man who travelled across the entire political map as a skater of 10,000 meters. Does he want to do the work line? These grown men who can work but who hunt the police, are they going to work? Come to the Liberals! We can talk to all parties, because that is the Liberal position. We can talk to everyone – even with the Social Democrats if they are, against the assumption, wise.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-585	Madam President, I would like I regret that the Liberals dropped out of January last summer. Otherwise, we would have been able to continue to negotiate these issues in our daily lives in a completely different way. There were many things in the January agreement that had not yet been completed. Johan Pehrson highlights the crimes of honour. There we are in the final stages of a new criminal law. We are instituting a special honorary crime with our own scale of punishment. There I hope that we will be able to continue the cooperation that we have had. We have good cooperation with Juno Blom in particular on these issues, and we will also want that when we complete that legislation, both the legislative referral and the proposal. However, I regret, as I said, that the Liberals chose this, in my view completely unnecessarily because cooperation was not completed. It was just that we had a government crisis and had to solve that government crisis. The Liberals then decided, quite unnecessarily and without any real reason, to leave the January cooperation. Actually, I think that's a shame. I also find it problematic for the Liberals that they have now placed themselves in a situation that is very difficult. In reality, the Liberals are now working for a government in which the Liberals will not be allowed to sit. It is not the Moderates and the KD who decide whether the Liberals will be allowed to sit in a future government; it is the Swedish Democrats who decide that. If you ask the KD and the Moderates about that, you never get any really clear answers. That Johan Pehrson and the Liberals have placed themselves in the position to work for a government that they themselves will not be allowed to sit in, I think is actually problematic. You almost want to call on the Liberals to think about that one more time, at least after the next election if you are still in parliament then. Was it really a particularly wise strategy? Once again, our door is always open to cooperation, both in substance and in the long term strategically.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-590	Madam President, I would like This thing with DÖ and JÖ and now NÖ, all this that means that you should not be able to talk to other parties, is quite outdated. I would just like to emphasise that, for the Liberals, we intend to stand up for our liberal ideals. We have been doing this for a hundred years in this House, and we were actually going to continue for a hundred more years. But it must be based on a strong policy focus so that the right problems can be solved. In this area, the Social Democrats have been dragged. Once the proposals come, we will discuss them. We can talk to all parties. But should we move forward so that we can expel more non-Swedish citizens who commit serious crimes and should we have a more proportionate criminal law so that life criteria meet relevant penalties and not irrelevant penalties, then we are ready. I hope that the government will not engage in, as Aftonbladet describes it, bickering, drugs and extremism, but will do some good until the elections.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-594	Madam President, I would like Let's keep going. Expulsion due to crime, we continue that process. I will also be able to submit proposals to Parliament on this issue as to what it is suffering when the work is done. The question of talking to all parties is about which way you want Sweden to choose. We have been clear on our part: we will not allow any right-wing extremists to enter the Government Office. The Liberals said when they left January that they did not want to be a doormat for the Social Democrats. Oh, my God, I'm saying that the Liberals got through much more politics with us than they ever got in the alliance years. You certainly were not a doormat, quite the opposite. You were a partner. The problem now is that you may have made yourself the doormat that the Swedish Democrats will wipe their feet on when they step into the Government Office. That is a problem, and I think Johan Pehrson should see that too. If the Liberals remain in parliament and in Swedish politics: Our door is always open, and we will always be ready to negotiate on proposals.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-599	Madam President, I would like I think it's usually a shortcoming but sometimes it can be a small asset: I've never been a youth federation. I entered politics in adulthood after quite a few years in business. There is one aspect of this mission that I sometimes have a bit of a problem with if I'm going to be completely honest. It is a fantastic mission; I love being a Member of Parliament. It is so rewarding in so many ways, and I feel many times that we actually make a real difference to real people in society. But it's quite a mess for the sake of the argument. In my speech, I made some criticism – quite general and broad but perhaps primarily directed at the government and the government representative in the form of the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs – that there is a tendency to blame, look very much back and talk very much about who did what and how bad the others were. It is possible that there is a game theoretical effect in this so that it pays the opinion to do so. But sometimes, Madam President, we have to do things anyway, although they do not pay. I believe in cooperation. I don't believe in bullshit. In that spirit, I am very curious to hear what plans there are in the future. I lack a clear direction from the government and from the Minister of Justice. What do we really want with justice policy? I understand that all the announcements addressed by the Parliament to the government are thrown from caste to cast, but in the absence of initiatives from the government and in the absence of a uniform line, it is from here that political product development is mainly taking place. I think it's a serious flaw. Politics needs a long-term perspective. We simply need a plan.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-604	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the tone that Johan Hedin always has in the debate. I think it's good. That is also why, in order to create such a platform, we started the Security Preparation on the initiative of the Center Party. It was to create a platform to discuss more than informally between all parties what we need to do to develop the judiciary. Very good! Then it is that sometimes the only way for voters to know whether a politician is serious or not can be to see how the politician has done in the past. Has he or she delivered what he or she has said, or has he or she not? Now we have been ruling for seven and a half years, but that is why we sometimes have to point out that the last time you had something to say about it, you could not be trusted at all. In fact, we must be able to say this, also on the part of the government, because it is important for voters to know whether they can trust what a politician says or not. Do you usually deliver what you say you should deliver or not? As far as plans are concerned in the future, we will proceed with the punitive measures. We will continue to expand the judiciary. We are expanding almost everything – prosecutors, courts, police and correctional services – at a very rapid rate of expansion. But we will also, and I think that is even more important now, highlight preventive measures. I said that we will put forward a proposal that all municipalities should have a statutory responsibility to prevent crime. We say, as you also hear in the debate, that the municipalities must now also get on the track here. Not only can it be the state, through its authorities, that reinforces this job, but it must provide school, social and leisure services and labour market opportunities for the young people who are going wrong. We need to focus more on this, so we will have to work on that a great deal more in the coming years.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-610	Madam President, I would like I am thinking of a quote from Brigadier General Dwight D Eisenhower, who later became President of the United States. He is said to have said that in his years as general he has found plans useless but that planning is indispensable. I believe that the Minister of Justice exemplifies the problem I am trying to point out when he highlights a number of tactical measures, a number of methods, to solve various problems. What I miss is not tactics. What I miss is not methods. We have lots of methods; we have several hundred that we have decided on in Parliament. But they must of course be put into a strategic plan based on a clear idea of what direction we want in legal policy in Sweden. What are the targets? What can we expect? Where do we want to be in ten years? Where do we want to be in 50 years? Where do we want to be in a year? Those questions must be answered.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-613	Madam President, I would like I naturally welcome such a long-term discussion. After all, the aim of our area is always to combat crime and to increase security – it is always these two issues that lie before us. How, then, is this done? I have come to the conclusion that a great deal of legislation needs to be tightened up to ensure that the most active individuals are removed from the streets and that we can then work much more effectively with the prevention work. If these individuals are allowed to remain on the streets, there is a risk that they will sabotage preventive work. This is a strong idea behind the punitive measures, behind the fact that we are expanding the police, behind the camera initiatives and behind what we are doing on the tool side. But, once again, for us to get there, the whole welfare policy must be on track. Then it's about the municipalities. I would also like to add that business and peoples' movements must also play their part in a holistic approach to prevention. I would be happy to have another such long-term discussion about where to go.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-617	Madam President, I would like As part of the agreement that we in the Left Party made with the government, we supported the government's draft budget after our own proposal had fallen. The Left Party believes that the government's budget would have been much better for Sweden than the proposal of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. The options are based on widely differing values. The three parties focus strongly on gang crime, and, yes, it is serious. They call it epidemic, and there's reason for that too. But there is another serious and widespread criminal epidemic, which is also at risk of death: men's violence against women. The three write, "It is only by creating order and security in streets and squares that freedom can increase for everyone to live their own lives. Women and men should feel safe going out into their neighborhood. ..................................................... I'd love to, but the most dangerous place for a woman is home. Women's fear both indoors and outdoors is the fear of sexual abuse. This is a fear that men rarely need to feel. That fear of abuse is a disgusting fear of being invaded and of being seriously injured. The Left Party is a feminist party that wants to upset the sex power order. In the area of justice, among other things, we are pushing for the creation of a special emergency aid line, with number 115, for women who have been subjected to men's violence. The emergency line will be run by the Police Authority and staffed by policemen together with sociologists and health professionals. Everyone should have solid violence skills and be able to carry out adequate risk assessments. We also drive demands for competence development – a femicide package – for police, prosecutors and court staff, so that men's violence against women in all its forms, including prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes, should be handled with enhanced violence skills throughout the legal chain. The development of skills should also include the management of the new and important child peace crime. The Left Party dares to see that the overall problem of crime is men's violence against other men and men's violence against women and children. Prevention is therefore intended to counteract the destructive parts of masculinity in everything, from preschool and throughout the education system, including the professions. We cannot afford to remain gender-blind. We can't afford men's violence. Nor can we afford to focus solely on harsher penalties; this is something that research really emphasises. I can't do that. It is inefficient and extremely expensive. These funds could be used more effectively for prevention.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-625	Madam President, I would like Let me first welcome the new Development Minister, Matilda Ernkrans, to the development debate. I look forward to many heated debates and wish the Minister great success in his important work. Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate Category 7 International Aid. This is an area that arouses many strong emotions and is very large and complex. The world is becoming increasingly uncertain, and in the wake of the pandemic, developing countries have taken the biggest blow. The consequences have been devastating, and unfortunately it is not over yet. But we also have a climate crisis that should be taken very seriously. Once again, the developing countries are the worst hit. Aid is an important tool. Sweden will as a rich country take responsibility and do what Sweden can to reduce poverty and oppression in the world. Having said that, I would like to come back to the complexity that I began by talking about. I believe that an important principle in politics overall is to dare to question old truths, such as the 1% target. Since the 1960s this has been an unwavering part of Swedish politics. The 1% target is not only unreasonable to the sum of money – today Sweden spends more money on aid than Canada, whose economy is three times as big as Sweden's, does – but also directly detrimental to how the aid is actually used in practice. First, setting a target for how much and then deciding what to do is not a reasonable way to spend taxpayers' money. At the end of each year we see how huge amounts are being paid out to multilateral organisations just to get up in the right amount. Understand me correctly – core support for multilateral is important. We think that we should focus on fewer UN agencies, but that is still very important. But I cannot be the only one who gets a stomachache when taxpayers' money is treated in this way. Furthermore, we see how the guarantee instrument is removed because it is too cost-effective. The employees at Sida therefore feel pressure to generate large payments rather than use a cost-effective instrument. It doesn't make sense. Sweden's involvement in the world has historically been of great importance to many people. And I think that many are behind the principle that Sweden should take responsibility and do what we can for people in need. If the last year has taught us anything, it is that the world is not becoming safer but increasingly unpredictable and uncertain. At the same time, I think many people are asking themselves whether we actually have the money under control. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's report Swedish aid to multilateral organisations, which came just a few weeks ago, the answer to the question is no. Swedish so-called core support to multilateral organisations amounts to approximately SEK 16 billion. It was for the management of this particular sum that the Government was criticised by the Swedish National Audit Office. And it is that sum that does not have clear goals and that is not adequately followed up – SEK 16 billion! Furthermore, it is not aid that drives development. It is economic growth that is the most important force for creating sustainable prosperity for people. Individuals with ideas that dare to realize their dreams make the world better. We will therefore always have the objective of moving from aid to trade and a stated objective that traditional development aid should be characterised by beneficiary countries standing on their own feet. It is not about some form of unrealistic idea that all the world's problems would end overnight, but about the irreparable belief that countries' own viability can be strengthened. Without that objective and without that faith, we accept what has become a reality in many developing countries: a dependency on aid that is hard and hard to get out of. In the upcoming shifts we will hear that Sweden is the best in the class on aid and that the evaluations show that Sweden's efforts are in the top class. Sweden receives good reviews from OECD-Dac, among others, which highlights the Swedish work to prevent, detect and remedy corruption. This is true. At the same time, research and media reporting have shown that Sida staff feels pressure to get money away by the end of the year to reach the one-percent target. This, together with the fact that a large part of Sweden's aid goes to recipient countries suffering from a high degree of corruption, means that we must protect Swedish taxpayers' money and continue to demand greater transparency and accountability, not least given that aid efforts have a negative impact on development if corruption occurs. Here we want to see a more-by-more principle to specifically reward countries on the basis of previous measures rather than making selections based on promises to live up to various anti-corruption mechanisms. I believe that aid is given too little space in the political debate, especially in view of the cost to the taxpayer. As I said earlier in this speech, I believe that many people are behind the principle that we in Sweden should take responsibility and do what we can for people in need and in a troubled environment. However, I also believe that many people want an honest debate, a debate that does not start from what it has always been like, but looks forward and asks critical questions about how we can get better and what is reasonable. Such an aid debate welcomes the Moderates.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-637	Madam President, I would like The draft budget presented by the Moderates together with the KD and SD shows that they do not have much knowledge of how the economy works. We risk, for example, losing large sums of money from the EU reconstruction fund now that they are totally opposed to what is needed to overcome the climate crisis, have tabled quite different proposals. They did not significantly reduce aid this year. But we all know, and heard it right here, that it is the Moderates' policy to take from the poorest in the world in order to continue to give rich Swedes tax breaks when their toilets in the cabin need to be flushed or when the Gucci dress is to be washed and ironed by someone other than themselves. One thing the budget coalition agreed on in terms of aid, and that is that 1 billion should go to the reconstruction of war-torn countries to enable people to re-live and live in secure societies and to contribute to their growth. The question I ask myself is what is not building communities. Getting good health care should, of course, be part of it, to have energy supply as well. At least all children getting education class me as community-building. And there are more examples. Thus, well over 1 billion are already being spent on building sustainable societies. Then it'll be almost a bit embarrassing to just add 1 billion. It shows that it went a little too fast when the Moderates, along with KD and SD, tried to win national conservative points when it instead shows that they do not have the ability to rule the country. During Helena Storckenfeldt speech we were told that more should go to evaluating and controlling the aid, while the Moderates actually want to reduce it by 13 billion even though Sweden is classified as top notch when it comes to delivery. I'm actually curious about what Helena Storckenfeldt thinks the poorest in the world can be without.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-644	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions in one. But I start from the top and go down, first of all, that we want to cut back on aid. Yes, that's right. We want to be able to set different areas of expenditure against each other, as is done in the rest of Swedish politics, and here we have prioritised differently. In this particular proposal, the 1% target stands, but it is absolutely Moderates' ambition to move away from it in the long term. As far as the earmarked billion is concerned, I understand very clearly that Mr Posio is interested in it being some sort of return billion. Then I would like to inform the honourable Member that there is absolutely nothing about it in the text, so it is completely out of context. After all, it is a question of rebuilding conflict- and war-torn countries. In talks with the UNDP last week, I was told that this proposal is very positive. So the UNDP sees something that Mr Yasmine does not see, because it looks very positively at this particular billion and would like to see more of it, quite simply.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-648	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the attempt to explain that the poorest in the world will not be affected when 13 billion are deducted from the aid budget! I would also like to point out that I did not mention billions of dollars as a return billion. There are other politicians who have done so. Helena Storckenfeldt is trying to make it sound like we who stand up for one percent of the bni have one goal, and that is that it should be that percentage. My exercise on development policy is 54 pages full of objectives in accordance with Agenda 2030, and the aid budget for Category 7 is 58 pages with both new objectives and evaluations of them. We get presentations about what the money is to be used for and how it has been used. For me, it is fascinating that Storckenfeldt has missed all these goals. Or is it that Helena actually knows that she is going with untruth to make people think that the aid is worse than it actually is and can market a reduction in the aid by SEK 13 billion?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-651	Madam President, I would like After all, we have seen very clearly, and I also stated this here in the speaker's chair, that there are major system errors that we have to deal with, and the 1% target is one of them. The fact that we are cutting back on aid is in order to achieve some sort of reasonableness. That Sweden gives more than Canada does, with an economy that is three times the size of Sweden, is unreasonable. What we are looking for is a more honest debate, in which one actually dares to question old truths that it has not touched since the 1960s. Only that should say something – that a policy area is so sacred that it is not allowed to discuss it.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-653	Madam President, I would like As a comment on the last shift of the line, I can say that aid policy has been updated since the 1960s, although the 1% target remains. Madam President, I would like Anyone who looks at this debate from outside – perhaps there is some voters following what we are doing in here – will be a little confused by the Moderates' speech. It ended with a desire to debate the content of aid policy, which I would also like to do. Before that, however, we heard a long fire speech which was not about the content of aid policy but instead about why we should spend less money on aid policy. It was a fire speech that we should not have a 1% target. However, if we had agreed on a one-percent target, we would actually have been able to discuss the content of the policy instead of arguing about the crowns. Madam President, I would like The Member from the Moderates makes a comparison with Canada's aid and notes that our aid is higher. Yes, but Canada's aid is too low. That's the problem. The Member from the Moderates also talks about efficiency and claims to be in favour of it and against corruption. Yes, but that position is shared by everyone. It's a non-argument. There is no Member in this House who has a different position. Then it sounds a little like there wouldn't be enough good things to spend aid money on in the world. But, Madam President, there are so many things that need support in the world. There are so many problems with democracy. There are so many humanitarian problems that we can use effective aid to face. Madam President, I would like It also sounds to the Moderates that there are no percentage targets in other policy areas. The Moderates are not in favour of a 1% objective in cultural policy in local and regional politics. But they are in favour of 2% in defence policy because they want Sweden to be part of NATO. This is therefore available in other policy areas. That is why I wonder: What is it that really makes the Moderates oppose the 1% target? Is it simply the case that aid is being cut back?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-659	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell says Canada's aid is too low. We claim that Sweden's aid is far too high. In view of the previous debate in this House, it is clear that we are not spending enough money on, for example, the police. Maybe that's what Canada is doing instead. The world's needs are increasing, but this is also the case here at home. We see that we must be able to set spending areas against each other. This also applies to aid. That is the basis for having this fundamental ideological discussion about what aid can and cannot achieve. I think we need to start there somewhere before we move on.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-661	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member highlights problems in aid related to efficiency and corruption. Then the honourable Member says that this leads us to cut back on aid. For me, this leads us to deal with problems relating to efficiency and corruption. This is the same thing about health care, the judiciary, as the Moderates themselves are happy to point out, and the defence. There are problems in Swedish healthcare. There are problems in Swedish judicial systems. There are also problems in Swedish defence policy. My answer is not that we should therefore cut back on health care, the judiciary and defence. My answer is that we should deliver policies that solve the problems. I think there are major problems in parts of our aid. Then we shall put forward proposals that can solve those problems, not have a debate on whether we need 1% or not, because it is clear that we need it. Why are the Moderates for 2 per cent for the defense and want to solve the Armed Forces' problems while at the same time being categorically opposed to 1 per cent for the aid? There is no reasonableness and no logic in this.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-663	Madam President, I would like What we are seeing in aid is that we have several system errors that are at the root of a great many other problems that arise in aid. It assumes that we are paying out a certain amount of money and not from what we actually want to do. This causes problems in very many different ways, and that is why this issue is so fundamental and so important to us. You simply have to start over and review the whole system. What is needed to do it well? We believe that a four-year financial framework could be much better for flexibility and sustainability and strengthen aid and its impact in the world.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-664	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by sending a compliment to the previous replicator, Joar Forssell. I think that Mr Forssell raised many good perspectives. It allows me to shift focus to something else in my lines. But I still have to start from a similar point of view. There was a lot of talk about improvement during Mr Storckenfeldt's speech. But there were very little moderate suggestions on how to actually get these improvements. There were a number of problems lined up, such as the fact that we have a payment stress, that we put too much effort into the multilateral system and that we put too little effort on other things than aid that builds growth and reduces poverty. But there were very little suggestions on how to deal with this. I also have to agree with Yasmine Posio here. When I listen to the speech, it sounds like you are looking for every opportunity to talk down Swedish aid and justify why if the Moderates are allowed to decide to cut it sharply. Madam President, I would like I think this is quite the wrong way to go. But I would also like to draw attention to something else that Helena Storckenfeldt says. She says that the problem is that politics should not be discussed. Yes, you certainly have to do that. That's why we're here. We have a whole debate to discuss politics. Then let's do it! It is perfectly possible to say that we are putting too much effort into the multilateral system and that we should ensure that we add more power bilaterally, where we can follow up the Swedish values. This is in the Center Party's budget bill. It is absolutely possible to talk about how to bring in other forces than state aid in development cooperation. This is also found in the Center Party's budget movement – and so on. What is it that Helena Storckenfeldt sees but I do not see? She seems to think that it is impossible to streamline and develop Swedish aid if you don't cut it by a third or more at the same time. Madam President, I would like If there is anything we should not do when we are in one of the biggest humanitarian crises in decades, it is one-sidedly cutting off Swedish aid.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-671	Madam President, I would like Magnus Ek claims that it is certainly possible to reform aid without talking about cuts. In fact, I would say not, because the basic problem is precisely the payment target. I mentioned a number of examples in my speech. For example, the warranty instrument is removed by the employees at Sida. The organisation can say a lot that priority is given to the instrument, but that feeling is not among the employees. So it's out of priority because it's too cost-effective. It doesn't feel good in my stomach anyway. Then there are the payments at the end of each year. They are made to reach the right number. I don't think that's reasonable. My answer is therefore: in fact, not because the 1% target is the basis of the problems.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-672	Madam President, I would like I find it hard to believe that the biggest problem we have is a possible payment stress due to the 1% target. But you shouldn't talk it off. We know that it comes up that in certain situations you experience a stress when you are going to find enough good projects to put the money that you have in the budget on. But then the question is: Are there other ways than cutting the money you work with? Could we work on extending the authorisation framework, for example? It's in the Center Party's motion. Could we look at how to change Sida's work to upgrade the things, such as the guarantee instrument, where we have added more money and where we want to add more money? I absolutely believe that this is possible. This is also in the Center Party's motion. Madam President, I would like I want to come back to what Helena Storckenfeldt said about Canada. It's really exciting to look at Canada. But I think the more relevant thing for us is not to look at one of the richest countries in the world but to look at the world's poorest countries. What's needed there? There is a need for Swedish aid. It is needed as a catalyst for other forces that drive growth, drive the fight against poverty and reduce freedom and oppression. It is perfectly possible to combine it with the desire to continue a policy of solidarity in development aid.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-674	Madam President, I would like In addition to the 1% target, we want to focus aid. We want to ensure that we focus on the right things at the right time, that we reach the democrats and human rights defenders in the right situation and in the right way. We have several problems. Just as Magnus Ek says, it's not just that. I chose to focus on the 1% target. I see this as the fundamental error that causes a great many other problems throughout the world of aid. But there are of course more things. We want to focus and make sure that what we do we do really well, and of course we will hook arm with several actors.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-677	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Storckenfeldt, for the warm welcome to this debate and this area! I really hate injustice. I am convinced that Sweden and the world can better lift people out of poverty, deal with the effects of climate change, strengthen girls' and women's rights and democracies. I very much look forward to taking on the development policy as well. That said, we stand up for the 1% target. We live in times where it is more important than ever that Sweden stands up for the 1% target and that more countries accompany Sweden. It is quite obvious that this is not the policy of the Moderates. They want to remove 13 billion from Swedish international aid. At the same time, 82 million are currently on the run. The pandemic, climate change effects, wars and conflicts have exacerbated the situation. In fact, I have a rather simple question for the Moderate representatives here. If we do what the Moderates want and do billions of cuts in aid, and moreover, as the Moderates' representatives have said in this House, not to try to convince countries like Canada not to give more in aid, but rather that all other countries in the world should follow Moderate Sweden and give less in aid: Will there be more or fewer people forced to flee from wars and disasters, climate change effects, famine or poverty in the world? Will there be more or fewer forced to flee the Moderate world?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-681	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate this debate. I can be a little more provocative today because I am quite alone in this position. I think that aid can be much better. That is probably why I am calling for a debate that dares to question things that have been true since the 1960s. We must be able to recognise shortcomings in systems in order to be better. That's my basic idea. The fact that in our budget we are cutting aid has to do with Sweden being one of the biggest donors in the world for a very long time. Somewhere we need to be able to look our taxpayers in the eye and feel that it feels okay. Right now it does not when you see what is happening in Sweden. We have a great security crisis, and we do not have enough resources to deal with it. It has become apparent when you get almost used to getting notifications on your mobile phone about shootings, blasts and blue light personnel being attacked. Aid must be allowed to be part of the wider political debate. That is the most important thing for me when I talk this much about the 1% target.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-686	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that we nevertheless note that the government is spending 62 billion in the area of expenditure 4, which is the justice system. As far as aid policy is concerned, we spend EUR 52 billion on international aid after counting off. So we spend more on the judiciary than on international aid. Having said that, I am the first to testify that we need to do more. We're gonna turn every stone around to take away the segregation and face gang crime. Sweden is part of the world. International aid is more important than ever. Today, 82 million people are already on the run. I believe that international aid serves Sweden well. It would be good if the Moderates could answer the question. Will it be with your billion-dollar cuts that more or fewer are forced to flee the world?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-688	Madam President, I would like I think somewhere you still end up on the principled question of whether or not to start from a payment target. In any case, it is not the sum of money that matters to me in this debate. For me, the most important thing is that we discuss: what can aid do, and what can it not do? That issue has not been highlighted. It's time we did. Matilda Ernkrans says to turn every stone around. Like many others in the country, I wonder: What has been done over the last seven years if it is now decided that it is time to turn every stone around? What I say may also be addressed to Magnus Ek. You can make a big and heavy budget without a payout target. I look forward to that discussion very much.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-692	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Storckenfeldt, for the speeches. Most of the questions I had have now been answered. I would like to ask two questions. Helena Storckenfeldt has now said very clearly that the 1% target is the biggest problem with this area of expenditure. There are many of us in this room who see a lot of other problems. It is, for example, a budgetary area that so obviously needs much more resources as the world looks even less. We need more cooperation and more work against all the crises that we see internationally today. Sweden's aid also gives Sweden a voice in the world and an opportunity to tackle global challenges such as the pandemic, climate change and so on. I would like to give Helena Storckenfeldt an opportunity to talk more about it. We hear a lot of different things. We'll hear about 0.7%. It's also a percentage. We sometimes hear about a four-year spending framework. We hear the Moderates want to focus and do the right things. I simply wonder: what is it in Moderate aid policy that is considered to be the right thing? What do you want to bet on? And above all, where do you want to cut down? It is clear, however, that this is a reduction. Something else I find very hard to believe. At the same time as reducing aid substantially, tax cuts are being made. It is de facto to have the world's poor pay.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-697	Madam President, I would like The state's budget is not infinite. I think I've found that out by now. It must be possible to set spending areas against each other. It is not a question of me standing in this Chamber picking from there, from there and from there and giving there. Of course, we have our priorities. But I'm not gonna do that here. That's not exactly how it works. Sweden cannot do everything, and aid is not always the right tool. I think that is something that we need to recognise in the development debate, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in all the forums where aid issues are dealt with at all. Aid is not always the right tool. I think it will be quite difficult for many to see this, but the Moderates have done so. We would like to see more of it in practice and in politics as well. We believe that you need to work a little more strategically and focused in order for Sweden to be able to do good in the world. Once again, we must be able to ask ourselves what aid can and cannot achieve. If you are going to mention something concrete that should be removed: Things that are thrown away without targets and follow-up are probably a good start, I think.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-701	Madam President, I would like If Helena Storckenfeldt means the support for the major international UN organisations, I sincerely hope that I heard wrong. Before the previous government took office and under the alliance government, absolutely nothing was done to get any kind of governance in this area. Now there are strategies, goals and follow-up, although we naturally take on the criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office and see that there can be improvements when it comes to getting everything together in one place. I would like to return to the question: What are the priorities of the Moderates in aid? What is it to focus on, and what is to be removed? Is it peace and conflict prevention? Is that the feminist development and foreign policy? Is that the work for human rights? Or what is it? Something needs to be ironed on the foot.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-704	Madam President, I would like We want to see a larger proportion going towards humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is the core of aid, and we believe it should be much larger. Sweden stands out because we have very much in development aid and a really very small share in humanitarian aid compared to other countries in the world. There we have historically been good from the Swedish side, so I think it is very important. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law are always priority areas for the Moderates. We believe that it should characterise all foreign policy engagement in all areas. The majority of the world's population live in authoritarian countries, and the figure is growing. We see that it needs to be done more, and more focused. It is about the more-for-more principle and the need for reform of the OECD-Dac system. It is also about the environment and climate and sustainable development. There are some suggestions.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-707	Madam President, I would like Initially, in this debate, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved in the report, but also for the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats. During the preparation by the Committee on Finance of the framework decision in the budgetary process, we from the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, adjusted our requests compared to our respective motions and presented a joint proposal, as stated in the first report of the Committee on Finance. The Parliament approved the proposal, and the framework decision for the budget adopted by the House is based on a joint draft budget from our three parties. At the same time, we are open to the fact that we are not proposing a common direction for aid policy in the draft budget itself. I will therefore dwell on my decision to reform in order to preserve and then point to the main shortcomings in the need for measures to create long-term legitimacy and acceptance for Swedish aid. 2021 has been a year in which the shortcomings in aid have become so clear and obvious that everyone in this House should recognise the need for strong reforms and a reduced aid framework. It is no longer a question of mismanagement with tax funds, but it is a question of Swedish aid funds having countered their statement's purpose. Counter-productivity of the aid becomes clear when the aid to the largest destination of Swedish aid, Afghanistan, is evaluated. In a report on the lessons learned from Sweden's development cooperation with Afghanistan in 2002 – 2020 from the Expert Group on Aid Analysis, it is possible to read: ..................................................... The billion-dollar roll of the Swedish people's tax funds towards aid that is so clearly counterproductive of its objectives must be reformed, not least with regard to the poorest and most vulnerable, who are affected when aid fertilises corrupt regimes. Afghanistan is not the only example that can be found; on the contrary, there are more examples of aid not being used effectively or being counterproductive. Sweden's support to the Palestinian refugee organisation UNRWA is another such example where aid has rolled on during year after year despite the fact that the organisation's activities have received severe criticism. Among other things, evidence has been found that anti-Semitism has occurred in the textbooks used in the teaching financed by the organization. We believe that aid to UNRWA and similar organisations needs to be phased out. When Swedish aid is used, it should go to organisations that are useful, and there are such organisations, including UNHCR and the World Food Programme in the UN system. Madam President, I would like The criticism of aid also concerns the follow-up to the so-called nuclear aid paid to both bilateral and multilateral organisations. During the year, the Swedish National Audit Office came with an audit covering approximately half of Swedish aid, SEK 27 billion, which goes to these organisations. The criticisms addressed by the Swedish National Audit Office concerned a lack of follow-up and that the Government does not carry out risk analyses to the extent that should be done before decisions are taken. It is also unclear, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, how Sida lands in its risk assessments and how lessons from follow-ups affect the design of new initiatives. Criticism needs to be taken very seriously, not least because it covers the huge sums distributed to organisations where monitoring is lacking. It is tens of billions that need to be handled much more carefully than has now emerged. This underlines what the Swedish Democrats have long argued about the widespread need to reform aid. Reform it today to preserve it tomorrow! Madam President, I would like Finally, there has been another critical review during the year by the Expert Group on Aid Analysis, which makes serious criticism of the evaluation of aid. This time it is about Sida's follow-up of the aid and how they report different projects. The review comes to the overall conclusion that a decentralised evaluation of Sida is probably not reliable. So the criticism is serious. A closer reading of the report shows that when Sida reports results from aid efforts, they often come to the conclusion that expected results so far are largely met but that it has been difficult to substantiate these conclusions because there is a lack of clarity in the target formulations. It is worrying that evaluations of the aid carried out by Sida in this way are not reliable. This means that there may be even more unsuccessful efforts that have not come to light because the evaluations have not been reliable. As we have been able to read in the reports presented and also witnessed in the news reports following the monumental failure in Afghanistan, Swedish aid is lacking. These are shortcomings which have not been addressed and which, moreover, remain, while new shortcomings are identified and revealed. In this situation, it is remarkable that there is no government will to tackle and address the major shortcomings clearly, not least if we advocate large amounts of aid expenditure. Madam President, I would like We also believe that it is time to review the 1% target, which has been touched on earlier in the debate, and to examine whether it is really reasonable that 1% of GDP should go to aid each year. The first question to be asked is where this 1% target actually comes from and how it has been so persistent over time, given that the need reasonably varies from time to time. Therefore, we have asked the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to produce documentation and answer the question where this goal came from. The investigation service has then stated that the goal was formulated only in the 1950s and can be derived, among other things, from the 1958 World Council of Churches and the 1956 Council of the Socialist International. No thorough and more objective reason to formulate just 1% has been found. Instead, the investigative service writes: Why the debate focused on just 1% does not have a clear explanation either. The events were not preceded by thorough investigations. Thus, the one-percent objective is lacking a more objective basis, and it is very difficult to see subjective values over 50 years ago playing a decisive role in billions of rollbacks today. The year 2021 has shown the counter-productivity and unsustainableness of aid as it is now designed. It must be time for strong reforms. We should be able to agree on this across party boundaries and, in fact, whatever framework is fundamentally advocated. We need to make aid more effective through more food, medicines and vaccination that benefits the most vulnerable and does not risk corruption. We need to work towards generous international refugee aid in the immediate region, with both urgent and long-term efforts. The share of Swedish aid going to humanitarian and refugee aid should increase. For all those who understand the evaluations that have been presented and study the development of Swedish aid, it seems odd that no effort has been made in the past for reformed aid, which can really help where it is needed and which does not go against its own objectives. We believe that all the shortcomings identified can no longer be ignored. It is time for effective and more effective aid.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-727	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson is certainly a relatively new member of the Foreign Affairs Committee but has been a Member of Parliament since 2014 and has a relatively long background in the Swedish Democrats as elected representative in and for the party. The Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag in 2010 and have since consistently pushed the view that Sweden's funding for development aid should be drastically reduced. Nowadays, the Swedish democratic view is that aid should be halved. This afternoon, Aron Emilsson and the other Swedish democrats will for the first time ever vote for a Swedish development aid of 1 percent of gross national income. How disappointed are you, Aron Emilsson, that in the common moderate, Swedish-democratic and Christian-democratic budget you are not able to reduce aid in the slightest?
i-VPMKEaN5PNk9treLcoTp2R	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kenneth G. Forslund, for the question. I am very proud, happy and pleased that the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats for the first time in history, have been able to negotiate a common budget option that is full-scale in all areas of expenditure. I know that our three parties fully agree that we need to drill into the aid that is counterproductive. A different type of follow-up is needed, a different type of target management is needed, a different type of evaluation is needed and a review is needed. Clearly, we have also all identified the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of how certain things are designed today. Of course, we will not leave that behind, but it is an issue which is continuing and which will have an impact both in future draft budgets and in political governance. Then, of course, it is – I think you should be honest and open with – that we had and have different input values. It is known that the Swedish Democrats want to see a gradual degression, in the first stage to 0.7 percent, the UN-recommended goal, the Moderates as well. However, we are also fully aware that negotiations require giving and taking. Not least the debate that preceded this debate, the one on the development of the judiciary, shows that, in other areas where it is most urgent, we can give priority to proper resources for breaking organised crime, tackling the energy crisis and other things. This is part of many, and we have continued negotiations waiting in this area.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-733	Madam President, I would like A government budget is about six feet on the shelf. The budget option performed by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats is about five A4 pages. To call it a comprehensive draft budget may I say – if I am to be generous, Madam President – is to have good confidence. I do not doubt in any way that the views of the Swedish democrats continue to be that we should halve Swedish development aid, just as Aron Emilsson says. The decision taken this afternoon will in no way secure the 1% level of long-term Swedish aid. On the contrary, I believe that the Christian Democrats have had a temporary success on this issue in the budget negotiations that you have had, where the Liberals were also present but dropped out in the final stage.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-735	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to ask Kenneth G. Forslund a sort of rhetorical final question. He does not have the opportunity to respond to it, but I think it would be interesting to hear representatives of the Government Party talk about what they want to do to respond to and deal with the widespread shortcomings of parts of Swedish aid today. We are once again hearing a focus on how important it is to maintain a 1% target, that it cannot be called into question and so on. But why does it think that just 1% should go to aid? Have you really read the reports and the reviews, and what conclusions do you draw? What is the consequence of the need for reform of aid? I would like to hear the Social Democrats talk about this at the same time.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-737	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it will be quite surreal to hear Mr Emilsson begin his speech by talking about the goal of Sweden's democrats is to safeguard confidence in Swedish aid and then, for eight minutes, to undermine confidence in Swedish aid. But that's not what I was going to take this line shift to. I would also like to say very quickly that, on the EBA report quoted by the honourable Member, I am not quite sure that the honourable Member understands what he has read. The paragraph he quoted concerns the link between aid work and the military operation from Sweden and NATO, and later the further military operation. It is serious enough, and it deserves to be read. However, I believe that it is aimed at something quite different from what the honourable Member implicated in his speech. I want to focus on two things. The first is what Mr Emilsson says about the changing needs over time. Certainly, Aron Emilsson must be right that the needs in the world of Swedish aid and development cooperation, in cooperation with other donor countries, vary over time. Right now, the need is historically great. But the big point is not that we give too much, but that we know that we are nowhere near mobilizing the financial resources needed to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. I would like Mr Emilsson to respond to this. How do you look at that? We are nowhere near mobilising the necessary financial resources; rather, we need to cut aid and mobilise others. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats are proposing to halve. How does this make sense? The second issue concerns the so-called'remigration billion' that exists or does not exist. After all, we have received a little different offers from the three parties that have managed to negotiate a draft budget. Here I just want to ask the question straight to Aron Emilsson : Is this return billion? And if it does not exist, why have the Swedish Democrats celebrated that they have got it through?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-742	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think it is genuinely important that we look in the eyes of voters and Swedish citizens outside this House and point out that we should have long-term confidence and a strong legitimacy for high Swedish aid needs reforms. It is not a good report, not even for those who advocate the 1% target or even higher aid, that we have major shortcomings in parts of the aid. The EBA reports I referred to and gave direct quotes from parts of the aid. This is directly related to aid and fits within this report and within the debate that we are having today. It is also pointed out and clearly presented by a number of experts and assessors who are well aware of this. Magnus Ek claims that there is a historically great need for assistance today. The problem with this is that we also have historical shortcomings in Swedish society, not least in terms of the welfare model, insecurity, the energy crisis and the existence of many of our voters who live outside the big cities, as Magnus Ek himself is of course well aware. All policies are about priorities. We cannot have an area in which, since the 1950s, we have been legislating and establishing that this should be exactly 1% of the state budget. It must be negotiable. It has not been a historically great need all the way since the 1950s, but of course there is room for reform. Returning billions is important. It is a political agreement that it should be possible to return to avoid the brain drain and to give people a chance to rebuild damaged countries in former crisis and war-torn areas and create a life for themselves and a growth and development for their old home countries. That is a clear agreement.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-749	Madam President, I would like I have no problem at all with looking my constituents in the eye about Swedish aid policy and Swedish development cooperation and our contribution to it. I have said before in this House that I think that this is something that Swedish citizens can be extremely proud of – both our historic contribution and the contribution we make today. Above all, I think that one should demand from its representatives that this should not be phased out but developed and that we consider how we can tighten it up and contribute with a more effective Swedish contribution. That's not what you do if you just cut off half the funding. It's not sharpening anything, it's cutting back on it. Call a shovel a shovel! I maintain that the quote read out by the honourable Member is not about what the honourable Member said, but about the link between aid and military action. It is good to have with you, but it concerns something quite different from what the honourable Member suggested. Finally, as far as the return billions are concerned: is this not exactly what we are doing with Swedish aid today, what you want to cut?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-752	Madam President, I would like I think Magnus Ek and I can agree that we do not agree, and that is good enough sometimes. It must be pointed out that for the Center Party and other parties it is impossible for any reason to reason and negotiate the 1% target. Why not 1% of the aid that Sweden gave in 2020 or 0.7% that Sweden gave in 1999? Was Swedish aid unsolidaric in 1999 because it was only 0.7 per cent? Or could it be at that level because some projects had more clear objectives and effectiveness or other priorities for internal policy that were then justified? There is a reasonableness in this. We need to be able to set spending areas against each other and make priorities. At times it takes courage, wisdom, and strength to be a legislator, and in this case it is needed.
i-XFdF2mVFpbFPt8EQMnXyNn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Emilsson, for the speech on aid for the Swedish Democrats! I have to start by saying that it is strange that the Swedish Democrats say that they want to keep Swedish aid high and have great confidence in it and at the same time talk it down instead of talking about what they actually want to achieve. A comment was made about the fact that nuclear aid is basically money in the lake, and then I wonder how one views international cooperation and how we can have an ability to have a strong international system in order to actually do what the Swedish democrats say needs to be done anyway. I would also like to ask Mr Emilsson what he means by Swedish aid being counterproductive to its objectives and objectives. The aim and aim is to lift people out of poverty and oppression, and I know that no aid money has gone the opposite way. Aron Emilsson is also engaged in talking a lot about counter-productivity. Then I would like to ask in what way in support of women's rights and greater equality in the world is counterproductive for greater equality and how the work on climate change, in terms of both emission reductions and adjustments, can be something that contributes to more or can make people even more vulnerable. I would like to know how Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats think about the global pandemic if we are not to have aid and if we are not to have international organisations and international cooperation. I also wonder about the challenges of biodiversity and deforestation. I could continue to list questions. Is it not the case that we need more international cooperation and more aid in these times of multiple crises?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-760	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the questions! There were a lot of questions, and I'll try to answer them in turn and see if I can do them all. Although the Swedish democrats would get their way and in the long term be able to lower the aid framework to 0.7 per cent and then to 0.5 per cent of bni, internationally speaking and in relation to a number of comparable countries remains a relatively high level of aid. I believe, above all, that most Swedish taxpayers and many voices in the international community are interested in seeing that the aid comes right and goes to the right things. There is also a need to strengthen the proportion of humanitarian aid in total aid. In response to the questions about how it can counter targets and what is lacking in nuclear aid, I think that aid needs to be focused. I mentioned a UN organisation, and there are others too, where aid does not work, but is counterproductive because it either indirectly fertilises anti-Semitism, violence and anxiety and then counteracts the aim of striving for democracy and peaceful development and coexistence, or in other cases there is a lack of target management, which makes it impossible to control aid, for example in the case of Afghanistan and other countries. There, a large proportion of the population is moving towards borders and to other countries so as not to starve to death as aid money is largely spent with the Taliban. Then you need to review, freeze and redirect aid. As early as 2017, a government investigation specifically, regarding poverty reduction, concluded that Swedish aid has not been able to contribute to a reduction. It was about Afghanistan. There are therefore previous cases where the same thing has been observed in parts of what the Swedish National Audit Office and others today point to in their reports. I mentioned that I believe that we need to strengthen humanitarian aid. Vaccines and other parts are, I think, important for combating the pandemic.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-765	Madam President, I would like It is not entirely clear what the Swedish Democrats want except for humanitarian aid. If we focus only on humanitarian aid, we will never be able to reverse the development that we see. Continued distribution of food packages and tents that people live in do not give a positive development to all the goals that we see in Agenda 2030, for example, and that we are all committed to working towards. I'm afraid it looks pretty dark at the moment. That is also one reason why we need to deploy more resources. We need to work more and harder – of course, helping in the humanitarian crisis that we are now seeing and which is bigger than in decades, but doing so only and not investing in preventive work and more development becomes directly counterproductive. I look forward to learning more about the more detailed development policy of the Swedish Democrats and how it can move forward.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-767	Madam President, I would like I can begin by referring precisely to our committee motion on aid issues from earlier this year. There are fairly detailed indications on how we would like aid priorities to look alongside and complementary to the expenditure area debate itself. On one point, I would like to agree with Janine Alm Ericson. We also believe that resources are needed for research and development, for example. This applies, in particular, to technical assistance. In many developing countries, support is needed for increased energy extraction, where there is great potential for it. Sweden can thus contribute with expertise in areas where we are particularly competent. This applies not least to environmental research, energy research and energy extraction. This also applies to projects that have been made historically, for example in terms of combating deforestation or exploiting raw materials and natural forces. We can, if we want, make the right effort in the right place.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-769	Madam President, I would like I really wonder who's fooled who. Who has fooled who in the negotiations between the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates? It is clear that both the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates want to reduce aid. The Swedish Democrats have a very clear figure, 17 250 000 000 SEK. One might wonder how they have arrived at the exact figure. The Christian Democrats do not want to lower aid, and there the Swedish Democrats have lost. It is clear to the rest of us in this House. But who has fooled who when it comes to the return billions? That's what you wonder. When you listen to the Swedish Democrats it sounds like there is a return billion, like there is SEK 1 billion to go to get people to move back; I guess that's what the Swedish Democrats want. It sounds like that in the media, and it sounds like this in the speaker's chair. But if you listen to the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, it sounds like there is no return billions. So it seems that someone has fooled someone. And the Swedish Democrats are the party of the three who have the least experience in political negotiation. So it is probably the Swedish Democrats who have been fooled. Madam President, I would like However, it could be that the Swedish Democrats are aware that there is no return billions, and instead the usual humanitarian aid, our usual development aid and our ordinary democratic aid are aimed at enabling people in future to live in places that are not decent to live in today. In this way, all aid in some sense is about people being able to live where they want to. And the Swedish democrats only want to fool their voters, who want to see a return migration. Madam President, I would like Have the Swedish Democrats been fooled by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats? Or are the Swedish Democrats trying to deceive their voters?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-774	Madam President, I would like I don't think anyone has fooled anyone in this negotiation. I do not think I myself have used the word'remigration billions' or so. This means that part of the aid needs to be earmarked for the reconstruction of previously damaged crisis and war zones. I find it difficult to see how it could initially be negative, as can be read between the lines that according to either the Liberals or the Government Party it would be. One of our own values must surely be to succeed in reversing developments where, in the past, there has been war, conflict and crisis and that we can assist people to rebuild their countries, regions, homes and houses with their own strength and support. This is a clear political agreement. However, it is not we in committee who regulate in detail how it should be administered and where it should be taken from. But it's part of the negotiation. It has also been published and made clear in the rounds of the budget negotiations. While we have this line shift, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Joar Forssell a question. Neither Joar Forssell nor other replicators in the debate so far have tried in any way to respond to the rather solid analyses and reports that have been published during the year and which I presented in my speech. They point to the need for a number of reforms in order for aid to work – I assume that Joar Forssell thinks so – i.e. reducing counter-productivity where that is the case. There are direct references to that. It is also about reducing corruption, inefficiency and the like. What is Joar Forssell's attitude toward those reports?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-778	Madam President, I would like The thing is that all parties in here want reforms in the field of aid. Everyone wants to fight corruption. Everyone wants to fight inefficiency. But, as usual, the Swedish Democrats are hitting open doors or fighting windmills. There's, like, no conflict line. The conflict line is whether or not we should have generous aid. Should we see Sweden's ambition to build democracy, build schools and create opportunities for human rights and build economic prosperity in other countries as a way of getting people to move away from here or as a way of empowering people wherever they choose to live? In 2018, a return billion was one of the things that the Swedish Democrats were running in the election movement. I should like to congratulate the Swedish Democrats if they have got it through in the negotiations. But if you listen to the Moderates and Christian Democrats, it seems that someone is lying. Either the Swedish Democrats believe that their new colleagues are lying, or they are lying to their constituents themselves, because this aid already fits within the ordinary aid that is about building the world's freedoms.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-781	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Joar Forssell! I understand that it hurts and that it gnaws that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have been able to reach a deal and agreement in a number of areas of expenditure where it has not been possible in the past. I understand if you have trouble with that. I think it is genuinely important and good for Sweden that today we have a conservative opposition that dares to market the idea of stewardship, including in the field of aid. Joar Forssell claims that there is no line of conflict when it comes to taking on board and observing the shortcomings and quite extensive problems that currently exist within a part of Swedish aid, without there having proposed measures. But I am still waiting for the Liberals and other parties to analyse what they want to do about the major shortcomings. No reductions are proposed.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-785	Madam President, I would like Friends! My grandmother usually says that an accident rarely comes alone. And the world is truly troubled. In the wake of the pandemic, we see that it follows an economic crisis, a democratic crisis, a crisis of equality, a crisis of education and a crisis of equality. We are told that diseases such as malaria are spreading and are demanding more lives because relief supplies, medicines and mosquito nets do not arrive. We have long passed the point where more people worldwide have died from the indirect effects of the pandemic than from the corona virus itself. Poverty in the world, which has declined over the last few decades, thanks to progress, increased trade and increased economic freedom, is now at risk of increasing. And the broad development of prosperity that has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty is in danger of being completely wiped out. Madam President, I would like A substantial effort will be needed through humanitarian and development cooperation to reverse these trends. However, we also need to do everything we can to ensure that world trade, globalisation and once again increasing economic freedom contribute to the need for fewer people to live in distress, abuse, poverty and oppression. We will have to do everything we can to get the wheels to spin in the right direction again. Right now, we're going back. Madam President, I would like At this point, there are forces in this House that want to cut the Swedish aid budget considerably; we have heard that today. When the world is experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis in manna memory, Members of this House think it is high time to reduce our support for those who are suffering. Let me be clear, Madam President. For the Center Party it is obvious that Sweden, which is one of the richest, safest and most free countries in the world, has a responsibility and a clear interest in helping people to emerge from poverty and oppression and build a freer, richer and more democratic world. There are also those who think, or at least express, that Swedish aid should be conditional, for example against migration efforts, rather than having as their goal to reduce suffering, poverty and oppression. Let me also be clear about this, Madam President. This is not something that the Center Party will contribute to. At the same time, many of those who stand up for our solidarity contribution, for example for the 1% target, all too often want to rest on the laurels. Of course Sweden takes a big responsibility, but we can do better. And yes, Sweden is one of the world's most effective donors, but we can sharpen our contribution even more to get more benefit and more development power out of each crown. It is very important for the state to make its contribution, but we also have huge resources in civil society and the business world, enormous know-how and a strong willingness to contribute. We can do more to mobilize them. We must be able to both stand up for the financial contribution we make and, at the same time, pool the power and the will to develop this contribution. This, Madam President, is the Centre Party's vision for Swedish development cooperation. We want to continue to invest 1% of Sweden's GDP in the international development agenda. However, the contribution should be seen as a means to mobilise significantly higher volumes from other actors. We want to use international aid as a lever to help mobilise these forces in industry, other states, civil society, international systems and academia. We believe that such a leverage effect is created by international aid mobilising not only capital but also commitment, time and innovation. In this way, the value of each tax chandelier that we invest in the work to achieve the global goals can be multiplied. Madam President, I would like This is necessary because we are not close to the volume of investment needed to achieve the sustainable development that we want to see and achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. Even if we put together all the world's state aid budgets, we will not achieve the volumes needed to eradicate poverty and achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. In addition, we know that there are states that do not want us to work clearly for democracy, for example, within the framework of Agenda 2030. We must also be able to pool other resource flows if we are to achieve these objectives. I think it is quite right that Swedish aid needs to be focused. This is something that the Center Party got into the January agreement. It is also one of the things that pains me most about the fact that we were not allowed to implement the January Agreement until the end. We were not allowed to take the first steps to focus Swedish aid on what we do best, where we can contribute most or where we know that other forces do not want to contribute, for example in the areas of democracy, gender equality and SRHR. That is where the Swedish contribution is needed. We believe that this is necessary in order for us to be able to get the maximum effect and to maintain the high Swedish willingness to provide aid, where we, as a Swedish society, go out into the world to do good, eliminate poverty, alleviate the need and lift the oppression of individuals. We have said that, for our part, we want Swedish aid to focus thematically on three areas. These include sustainable jobs, climate change and green energy, democracy and the rule of law. In this room I don't have to explain why it is particularly important for Swedish development cooperation to focus on these areas. We also see that gender equality must be both a priority, a goal and a value that permeates the entire Swedish development cooperation. We have taken good steps in this direction in the past, but this can continue to be tightened up. Last but not least, we must quite rightly manage to see a world beyond aid. After all, the aim of aid is that it should no longer be needed. The goal is for us to manage to establish broader relationships, achieve our goals and then phase out the aid so that our cooperation with the countries where we work today through the aid will shift to relationships that only concern research exchange, trade, migration back and forth, labour immigration – mention what you want. However, these broader relationships must also be included from the outset. We are no longer in the situation we were in during the 1950s and 1960s, when we came as a donor of all good gifts in Europe. We are a partner in global development cooperation. But, Madam President, if we want this development cooperation to achieve its objectives, the Swedish contribution must not only be preserved but also continue to develop and be larger than the state. This is the Centre Party's goal for the Swedish development policy.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-801	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for raising the extremely important issues that need to be highlighted when we talk about aid. Magnus Ek mentioned that much more resources need to be channelled if we are to achieve the goals of Agenda 2030 and a democratic world. At the same time, we know that this is not really what is needed, but other basic needs that need to be addressed. It is about fair trade and that taxes remain in the countries so that they themselves can be built up. Now taxes are being eliminated into tax havens through tax evasion. I wonder how the Center Party and Magnus Ek stand for human rights due diligence, which is about getting fair trade, and country-by-country reporting, which would mean that taxes remain. In this way, the countries themselves could tackle the problems and not just get aid when, as you said, we come as the great donor. Instead, they can generate solutions themselves.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-804	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio, for the question. Let me reply directly to that: we are in favour of that. We think it needs to be done at European level, and of course we have thoughts on how to do it. However, we have said that this is something that we are in on and that we want to see. We also want this to happen in collaboration so that Swedish companies operate on the same terms as their European colleagues and neighbours. This will be important. Just as Yasmine Posio says, development should not happen in just one way. We know that democratic development requires the development of prosperity. The development of prosperity and democracy will be much easier if we succeed in reducing corruption. If, as leaders of any country, you can pick out tax funds, steal them, put them in your own pocket, take them out of the country and hide them, we know that progress in other sustainability factors and other areas will be much more difficult. To some extent, the entire development work is communicating vessels. It is not impossible to achieve progress in one area while it is difficult to make progress in others, but it will be much easier if you manage to move forward in several different areas at the same time. It also provides a more sustained force in the work for a sustainable, democratic and free world and a world without poverty. Furthermore, Yasmine Posio knows that I think it is important not to get caught up in thinking that we can only solve this by overcoming tax systems. Without us, we must ensure that there is growth that is speeding up and that is spreading widely in a population. We know this from Sweden's own journey from being a poor country to becoming one of the richest in the world. It was only when we had a rule of law combined with increased economic freedom and ordinary people could contribute to growth that we began to take real steps away from having been one of the poorest countries in the world. I believe that the same conditions apply to most countries that now need to make the same journey. We must remember and work for this.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-809	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. When you look at previous reports from various civil society organisations you can see that the Center Party has not been behind country-by-country reporting and human rights due diligence straight off. Instead, it has wanted to adjust it in different ways, including via the EU, which risks reducing the chances of achieving a really good, strong, clear and fair trade that benefits not only the rich part of the world but all the countries of the world. It was interesting to hear the reasoning here. It seems that the Center Party has moved something. We now see that, despite the climate crisis, Swedish companies are not reporting their emissions properly. That is why I think it is important that there is clear legislation that obliges companies to report what is happening in the business.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-811	Madam President, I would like I don't think it's so much about us changing our minds. We may have clarified our position, but we have also done so because we have a good discussion with Swedish civil society organisations working for this. I happen to know that some of them are watching this very chamber debate, so I would like to take this opportunity to send a warm thank you to the forces of civil society, with which we have a clear dialogue and which helps us to improve. It is very important for us to be able to tighten up the Swedish development policy. I am not sure what Yasmine Posio is referring to in the second part of his line, but it is worth mentioning that it will be important not only for companies but also for states. We know that this was one of the cracking issues that we did not finish at COP 26 in Glasgow. We do not have transparency from some companies, but we do not have transparency from states. This applies, for example, to China, which does not want to report what emissions or what growth it has. This is a huge problem, because if we are to be able to follow if we have a positive development in the world, we must also be able to trust the data points. There's a piece left to go.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-813	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to take this opportunity to welcome Minister Matilda Ernkrans to the new mission in the government. It's gonna be great to discuss these things with her. The gap between the poor and the rich is abyss depth. This applies between countries, within countries and between women and men. For a while it was about to get better, but in recent times we have seen how the inequality gap deepened. It will continue to do so if the governments of the world continue with the unfair, neo-colonial economic policy. Unless we ensure that people have decent working conditions and wages, unless school, health care and care are provided according to needs rather than according to the size of their wallet, unless equality is achieved and women are not subjected to violence by men, unless discrimination and racism are combated – then it does not matter how many Millennium Goals or Agenda 2030 are established. Inequality will continue to increase. This applies not only to all other governments, but also to Sweden, which is now to rule with a national conservative budget which, with some changes, is largely the government's original budget. This budget prioritises tax relief for rich people who should not have to pay full price to get the Prada costume washed or the toilet in the cabin flushed, despite the fact that preschools, schools and elderly care make cuts. This gives priority to private performers in welfare despite the fact that it is impoverished and the majority of the Swedish people want profits removed from welfare and want to get rid of the market school that has been condemned by almost everyone. Here the government is prepared to reduce working conditions, despite the fact that most people want better working conditions. This applies not least to our young people and new arrivals, who are exploited in a labour market in hours and in gig jobs with a poor working environment. But you can make a difference. Among other things, both the UN and numerous organisations raise human rights due diligence in order for companies to be forced to comply with human rights and climate agreements and offer decent working conditions and wages. Country-by-country reporting is also lifted as a tool against tax evasion, and with us left-wingers at the helm, we had not only made sure to introduce it in Sweden – we had also pressed for the EU to do so. An equal and equal society benefits us all. Unfortunately, we stand here with an economic inequality so great in the world that the 62 most wealthy people together own as much as half of the world's population. As if the work of these 62 people corresponded to the work of half the world's population! Aid is therefore needed. And, you know, aid has an effect. Thanks to aid, millions of children have been educated. Vaccinations have been performed and maternal mortality has been reduced. With aid, wells have been dug, civil society organisations have been able to be formed and authorities have become more transparent. Madam President, I would like The Pandemine has reaped a lot of lives. As many have died from the virus itself as from the measures that society has taken to combat the pandemic. For example, market closures have meant that small farmers who have focused on single crops have not been able to sell them on the market and thus have not been able to buy all-round food. Therefore, in our development motion, we have proposed that a larger proportion of Swedish aid should be given to women farmers in order for them to be able to conduct sustainable agriculture but also to form cooperatives in which they can support each other financially, in terms of knowledge and in social terms. In this way, aid can contribute more to sustainable and equal societies that are better at managing crises, fully in line with Agenda 2030. The pandemic has brought us further attention to the ongoing climate crisis. For example, the lack of water is particularly evident when people lack the ability to follow basic advice on hygiene and hand washing. According to a report from Oxfam, the richest emit 430 times more than the poorest. From a climate justice perspective, it is the rich countries that have the historic responsibility for climate change and which now also have the greatest responsibility for reducing their emissions and providing support to the poor countries that are affected. The need for climate aid which, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, is beyond normal aid is obvious, and we in the Left Party have put forward proposals to close gaps and to give the world a better chance of facing future crises and disasters. Madam President, I would like Thanks to Swedish core support to the UN Population Fund and UN Women and assistance to civil society organisations working with sexual and reproductive health and rights, more women have been given the right to decide over their own body and express their own sexuality. But it is a right that is violated and violated in many countries. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care, strong restrictions on the right to abortion, men's violence against women and the use of sexual violence against women in conflict zones and wars are central obstacles to development and the fight against poverty. Reactionary and authoritarian leaders around the world have used the pandemic as a reason to restrict human rights. For example, the Polish Government has introduced very restrictive abortion legislation, and Turkey has withdrawn from the Convention on violence against women by men. In addition, in the wake of curfews, there was an increased risk of domestic violence among women and children, and increased poverty along with school closures has resulted in more cases of genital mutilation and an increase in the number of children who were married away. Therefore, the proportion of aid allocated to work with the SRHR should increase to at least 10% of the total aid budget. Madam President, I would like Much of the Swedish development policy is really good. Sweden is the best in the class on many parameters. Swedish aid is usually effective and accurate, and given the world's needs, it would never occur to me to propose a reduction in Swedish aid. Aid together with a fair economic system is required for an equal, equal and climate-fair world, where all people have the same opportunities and freedom to live the life they choose with freedom to see their children grow up in security and gain the knowledge and support they need to become the best they can be, not least with the freedom to control their own body, love and sexuality. Madam President, I would like Since the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of expenditure is above the level that the government assigns to Category 7 we will not be taking part in the decision on the budget allocation itself. On the other hand, we have a reservation on the OECD-Dac acquis, and I would like to call for it to be approved.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-829	Madam President, I would like The richest person in the world can fit in a chair. It's fascinating, isn't it? The world's eight richest can fit in a minivan. But it does not say whether it is right or wrong that the person is rich, whether someone else is rich or poor or whether it is a problem or not. That sounds classy. Certainly it sounds classy when you refer from the Left to inequalities in the world by saying that si and so many own si and so much of the world's resources. The problem with the world is not that there are rich people but that there is poverty. As usual, the Left wants to fight wealth rather than poverty. The most effective way of increasing people's wealth around the world, ensuring that more people can afford to live the lives they want, that more people can afford to have empowerment, to follow the goals of their dreams, is of course to spread democracy, the market economy and free trade. I agree with the Left Party that legislation is needed to ensure that companies, no matter where they come from and not intended where they operate, meet human and trade union rights requirements. We are in favour of due diligence. Madam President, I would like On the Left side, I miss the second part of the equation, i.e. suggestions for how we can increase trade in the world, to raise people's ability to improve their own life situation through free trade, through their own ability to raise their economic status. It doesn't matter if the richest person in the world can fit in a chair if we lift other people out of poverty.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-833	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell's reasoning says a lot. He claims that wealth is not a problem. If the distribution of resources were fair and the wealth was not so extremely unequally distributed, it might not be a problem. But it is a problem today that so few people have such extremely large resources, while the majority of people have nothing at all. Then it does not matter if you claim to be in favour of free trade agreements if you do not ensure that agreements are concluded on fair terms. That is the major problem in society today. A fair trade policy that puts democracy, human rights and the climate first is good for the outside world. But the kind of trade that is taking place today when multinational companies want to establish themselves in a poorer country can mean that people are forced to flee their villages. Sometimes there is sexual violence to stigmatise women, make them feel bad and thus have to flee. There, a mine is then opened to produce material for our fantastic mobile phones. Not to see that this is problematic, that it is in this way that the extremely rich have become rich, to close their eyes to the fact that trade policy is not fair, is not to want to lift the poor out of poverty. That is what we will stand up for today, tomorrow and in the future.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-836	Madam President, I would like When industrialization and the market economy lifted people in our country out of poverty, so that we stopped living in misery and instead lived in wealth, could build houses, dress and get food, then the socialists stood on the barricades and were against. Then those who are the ancestors of Mr Posio stood against. Today Posio is here posing to deny people in other parts of the world that opportunity. With the policy of the Left Party, roads to free trade are closed in other parts of the world, to allow people to lift themselves out of poverty. Yes! Liberals also support fair trade, respect for human rights. But no, we do not believe that we can lift people by shutting them out of action or building their economic prosperity from scratch, as we ourselves have done. Madam President, I would like I think it is deeply unethical to deny people a market economy, the right to their own economy and free trade.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-839	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is certainly not against trade, but we are in favour of fair and fair trade based on the constraints imposed by the climate on our planet. A fair trade policy that puts democracy, human rights and the climate first is not just us in the Left Party for. There are many large organisations, such as the OECD, the UN and numerous civil society organisations, which are in favour of this type of trade policy. The figure shows the unfair distribution of economic resources in the world. There are a lot of scientists who present reports on how poverty in the world is increasing rather than reducing. Let me remind you that without the trade union movement and without public sector investment, the Swedish industry would not have been as strong as it stands today.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-842	Madam President, I would like In today's debate on Sweden's international aid, we have the special situation that the draft budget we Christian Democrats worked out together with the Moderates was clubbed in Parliament the other week. I am proud that the Christian Democrats have once again achieved a budget with maintained one-percent targets, just as under Bildtgovernment, the Alliance Government and the M-KD Budget 2018. We want an ambitious development policy, and we are safeguarding generous and effective aid – for solidarity with our fellow human beings who are worse off than we are, because the situation in the world requires it, with increased numbers of people living in great poverty, because the number of people who hunger and barely have food for the day has also increased, and that efforts to alleviate distress, reduce inequality and strengthen democracy promote security and security both in the immediate and, ultimately, throughout the world. According to UN judges, the pandemic has thrown the world back 20 years in development. Millions of children have missed schooling when schools have been closed and have thus been left without the perhaps only cooked meal a day. We have seen in the media heartbreaking stories about how little girls have been married away so that the family will have a mouth less to feed. An intensive effort will be needed to reduce poverty and hunger in the world. Not to mention the fact that many poor countries in Africa have not yet had time to vaccinate more than a few percent of their populations. Added to this are all the war cores and armed conflicts that exist around our world, such as Yemen and Ethiopia, and the grave situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the Taliban. That is why there is every reason to continue working to make aid as effective and accurate as possible so that it is sufficient for all the more. Sweden needs to work to increase its levels of aid. Only a few countries meet the EU's target of 0.7% of GDP being allocated to official aid. It is worth mentioning here that both Germany and France are increasing their aid. Since the 1% target is linked to GDP, which generally increases year by year, it is particularly important that growing aid is used effectively. The Christian Democrats therefore want Sida and the Expert Group on Aid Analysis to be tasked with proposing how quality work in agencies and organisations can be strengthened in connection with an increase in the aid framework. We also want to see a study that provides suggestions on how aid can be developed in the future, in cooperation with civil society and private actors. The Christian Democrats believe that we must work on evidence-based and dare to quantify our goals and ambitions in order to better evaluate the effectiveness of aid. How much has the vaccine rate increased? How many more girls go to school? How many more women have access to safe childbirth? When developments in many areas go in the wrong direction, it is important that Sweden identifies the areas where we have clear added value. This is addressed by OECD-Dac in its evaluation in 2019. It is believed that Swedish aid is characterised by sprawling strategies and thematic priorities that can lead to projects receiving double funding. In addition, clear priorities are lacking. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the direction must be guided by the world's needs. I would like to highlight three areas that are of particular concern to us Christian Democrats. Firstly, support and assistance is needed for the world's poorest. Food security is threatened by climate change. As part of the fight against poverty and hunger, the Christian Democrats want a larger share of aid to be allocated to strengthen cooperative and small-scale farming in low-income countries. Such an effort should particularly benefit women farmers, who make up a majority of the world's poor and, at the same time, are important players in securing everyone's right to food. In this way, we can both promote food security in general and directly improve the family's conditions for education and development. There is also evidence that when women dispose of the income from small family farms, the money goes to the children's schooling, more nutritious food and improvements in the family's housing. It can be to build a bigger house of cement and with metal roofs, which better withstand rainfalls and storms compared to a clay house with palm leaf roofs. Secondly, support for people on the run is needed. Sweden and the rest of the world must make a greater contribution to helping people escape. Of the world's around 80 million people on the run, most are in other parts of the home country or in the immediate vicinity, often under very difficult conditions. In many cases, the temporary refugee camps turn into long-term housing with great humanitarian needs. Sweden must contribute to new ways of meeting people's distress and vulnerability. Access to water and food must be ensured, and children and young people in refugee camps must have as much right to education as the country's own children. Refugee camps should not be permanent in generation after generation, but those living there should be able to integrate into local communities. Thirdly, democracy and human rights must be strengthened. Democracy is in decline. Around the world, civil society, opposition politicians, journalists and lawyers are being pushed back. The scope for human rights is being reduced, and it risks resulting in an increasingly uncertain world. Support for these groups needs to be strengthened. There must be clearer requirements for actors who receive Swedish aid. It is a question of freezing aid to state actors where democratic development is going in the wrong direction or to organisations that do not credibly stand up for democratic values. We also need to follow up how Swedish aid money is used by multilateral organisations or where Sida is a contracting party. The government needs to take responsibility for the entire Swedish aid chain regardless of whether the support is channelled through the EU, UN agencies or civil society organisations. If this does not happen – if, for example, a country's officials are guilty of serious human rights violations and yet can benefit from Swedish aid money through a multilateral organisation – it helps to undermine the legitimacy of the aid, and it reduces the willingness of the population to provide aid. Therefore, Sweden must seriously put its weight behind the words. Madam President, I would like If, through our Swedish assistance, we can follow these broad lines of our priorities, we will help to reduce tensions in the world and provide people with tools for a life of greater participation, where they can be integrated and contribute to society's development.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-857	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying the following, so that it is said in this House: it is clear that we should have effective aid that is used for what it is for. We in the parties that stand up for us to have a 1% target – high and ambitious aid – are probably the ones that need to take full responsibility for the use of aid for what it is to be used for. After all, we want the confidence of voters to use the money for international aid, and then we must also know that the money goes where it is going. I would like to emphasise that very much. That is my commitment, and that is the commitment of the government. Our commitment is high, and it will continue to be. Having said that, I think perhaps the Christian Democrats have more problems to consider. I come from Hallsberg in Örebro County, and I have been engaged politically there for over 25 years. I have been involved in many different political projects, not least with international connections; I have worked with women's groups in what was then called Burma, today Myanmar, and I have worked towards Novgorod. I am working today on a project with democracy development in Tunisia, among other things. I have met many Christian Democrats in Örebro County who, like us Social Democrats, are committed to international solidarity. Now the Christian Democrats have been very closely associated with Swedish Democrats and Moderates, not least Moderates who do not take a step without having the Swedish Democrats with them. These two parties want to make billions of cuts in aid. I wonder: how long does Gudrun Brunegård think that the Christian Democratic voters will continue to trust that the party stands up for a 1% target for aid?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-861	Madam President, I would like Welcome in this context, Minister! It's nice to meet you in a new context. I note the fact: we have a strong record of keeping the 1% target high in the governments and budgetary constellations where we have had the opportunity to influence. We succeeded not only in the Bildt government, when Alf Svensson was a minister of aid, but also in the alliance government when it was a moderate who was a minister of aid. We maintained the 1% target at the time, and so did the KD-M budget in 2018– as well as the budget that Parliament made a few weeks ago. This is a high priority for the Christian Democrats. In negotiations, what someone said here before is a rewarding and a taking, and this is an important issue for us that we are prepared to continue to fight for. So I would like to say to all the Christian Democratic voters who are watching this debate: please be calm! We will continue to fight for this issue also in future budgetary cooperation.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-864	Madam President, I would like Well, sometimes it can be that you need to take the story to help. But if we put the story a little right, let us remember that the Christian Democrats brought the Liberals and the Center Party into the alliance government. They also stood up for the 1% target. If we are now going to look at history, we can also remember that party chairman Ebba Busch said a few years ago that she would not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats for 20 years or so – and now the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, are sitting and working with the Swedish Democrats. Now the Christian Democrats are in a collaboration where the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, who are strong, want to make billions of cuts in aid. Can it really be trusted, then, that the Christian Democrats will be able to stand up for high aid? I think you need to go somewhere else.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-866	Madam President, I would like I realise that the Government is trying so hard to doubt our ambitions, but I can guarantee that the Christian Democrats throughout our country are very determined; we want to maintain this. It is about several strong Christian Democratic fundamental values. The aid is linked to both human dignity and the following solidarity: every person is worthy of the opportunity to realise his dreams and ambitions. It is also about stewardship in terms of our environment and so on. In the coming government that we intend to enter, it is the Moderates we will cooperate with.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-868	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Brunegård and the Christian Democrats for the good cooperation we and the Center Party have had with the Christian Democrats on the very issue of the 1% target. I would also like to thank Brunegård himself for the obvious genuine commitment to aid policy. That was certainly reflected in the speech just now. Nevertheless, I have a question about the new cooperation between the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates. After all, Christian democracy is fundamentally based on Christian ethics. One thing that I learned in school and that we also talked about in confirmation education is that you shouldn't lie. It is wrong to lie; it is a sin. We have heard from the speakers today and in the media a little different information about this with the return billions. I wonder who is sinning – who is lying. Are you lying to each other? Are you lying to the voters? Who are you kidding? From the Swedish Democrats' side, the return billion was an election promise. They called it a return billion in the media, and we have heard it in this House as well. From the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, it sounds like it's not a return billionaire. This must mean either that the Swedish Democrats lie to their voters to show that they have fulfilled an election promise or that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have lied to the Swedish Democrats in the negotiations. Madam President, I would like I wonder if Mr Brunegård can answer the question: is it a confidential cooperation with the Swedish Democrats, or is it someone who is lying?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-873	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for both this and previous posts on the same theme in previous replica shifts. This is a very interesting question. As I am sure Joar Forssell will understand, I cannot reveal any interiors from the budget discussions that have been. As I said, cooperation with the Moderates is; it is with those we have worked out the budget. Then the Swedish Democrats entered a later stage. Unfortunately, the Liberals left the negotiating table at one stage, and I do not know exactly when it happened with regard to this particular aspect – aid and the billion that was on the table here. I would like to read out: a billion crowns of aid funds are earmarked for the reconstruction of war-torn countries to enable people to re-inhabit and live in secure societies and contribute to its growth. Does it say anything about re-migration there? No, it is a party that makes that interpretation. But this should be interpreted as it says. Just as I said in a previous line shift, a negotiation is a rewarding and a take. What could possibly have been in the pot from the beginning is not there now. What it says here is that people should be able to live and live in safe societies and contribute to the growth of these societies. It is true of the people who live there today, but perhaps also those who live in the neighbourhood and also those who have fled further away – that you can voluntarily return when you see that there are functioning infrastructure, schools, roads, water and so on.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-876	Madam President, I would like In Christmastime we can be happy that we do not have a hero in so-called return billions and that the Christian Democrats are not lying but that it is the Swedish Democrats who lie to their voters, quite simply. But, Madam President, this still makes me wonder. What is described by the honourable Member and which is quite correctly read out of the draft budget is really no wonder. We have development aid, and we want countries to be free and have prosperity and to be able to live and live wherever they want in the world, free from all kinds of poverty, misery, lack of infrastructure and everything the honourable Member read out. But what, according to the Christian Democrats, distinguishes this from what we normally call development aid? What makes this stand out compared to what we call development aid? Why do the Christian Democrats think that this does not fit within the existing one?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-879	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the in-depth question! I agree. This is exactly what normal, honest development aid stands for, which we have been working on for many years. We have good experiences from Syria, for example, where Sweden has worked with these very types of support to ensure society's safety for people so that they can live and live there. That's how we hope to work even in, say, Afghanistan. I do not see any drama whatsoever in this. What it may have been before the negotiations reached their final point, I cannot talk about. It is not interesting, because that is what came out of the negotiations that is interesting. As we heard in committee, the sum is far higher than that. I therefore see this as a minimum level.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-881	Madam President, I would like This is a rather strange debate to get into. We have a majority in the budget, most of which want to cut aid substantially. At the same time, it is a majority in the budget where we do not agree on what we have voted for ourselves. Some think it's a return billion, and some others don't. Some are satisfied that they have fulfilled an election promise, and some others are pleased that they have defended that some others should not comply with the election promise to cut back on aid. It is a little confused as to what the majority of the budget itself thinks we are debating here today. Having said that, however, I think that an aid debate should really begin with the inter-human responsibility that rests on each and every one of us human beings. Because, Madam President, that is basically what makes us have and should have generous aid from a country like Sweden – that we people, no matter where we live and where we live, have a responsibility to help other people. We have a responsibility to spread freedom, democracy, human rights and the right to decide over their own body and life to all people throughout the world. All people have such a responsibility. But if you have more opportunity and more funds you also have more responsibility. This is one of the reasons why the 1% target is so incredibly important. We have a responsibility, regardless of the government that governs and which parliamentary majority there is, as a rich country in the world, to spread peace and freedom throughout the world. There are, of course, problems with aid sometimes, as there are in all policy areas. There are problems in health care, defense, police, school and so on. There, most parties react by presenting proposals and reforms on how to address these problems, not by wanting to cut back. That is the funny thing about this debate. The parties that point most to the problems of aid have the solution to cut back on aid. But that's not a solution. It goes without saying that if you want to solve it, you can present reform proposals for it. Madam President, I would like It is interesting how a conflict line is painted where some parties would be in favour of corruption and inefficiency while others are against it. The truth is, of course, everyone is against inefficiency and corruption. Lifting it up as an argument against aid is almost ridiculous, for there is no line of conflict. Everyone wants professionalism, strengthened skills, reduced corruption and reduced inefficiency. I believe that there are enough good and important aid projects that need our support so that we can use at least 1% of GDP to finance them, even without any inefficiency. Madam President, I would like The world is more interconnected today than before, and aid is based on right and wrong and on our responsibilities. But aid is also necessary from a purely selfish point of view; we should be honest about that. We need aid to combat the pandemic in other countries, for example, because if we do not, we will have new mutations and new plagues here in Sweden too. We need aid to combat poverty, because if we do not, it will be a breeding ground for conflict and extremism that can spread. We need aid to create the conditions for democracy and economic prosperity so that we have more trading partners in the world and can lift our own prosperity. The world is connected. When things are going well for other parts of the world, Sweden is also doing well. When things are going badly for other parts of the world, Sweden is also doing badly. Although the starting point for aid must always be the completely unegoistic and humanitarian perspective that we as people have the responsibility to help other people, we should also be aware that aid is basically a plus business for the whole world. This should be borne in mind by the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats when they so strongly criticise generous aid. Madam President, I would like Liberal aid policy is based on the premise that democracy should be the primary objective of all aid policies. For us, this is important, and here we differ from all other parties. It is in democratic states that prosperity is created and that people are lifted out of poverty effectively. It is in democratic states that people's rights are respected. It is democratic states that contribute to peace and freedom in the world. This is no wonder. Democracy is, of course, about respect for human rights. You cannot be a democracy without respecting human rights. There are really no examples of countries that respect human rights without being a democracy. It is therefore in the definition itself. If you respect rights such as freedom of expression and organisation and respect minorities and LGBT rights and if you respect and want to strengthen the SRHR, you are probably a democrat. History shows that this is the case with 100% probability. When strengthened, people have a greater opportunity to stand up for themselves and decide over their own lives. This, in turn, means that they will be able to fight for democracy, and therefore dictatorships or other non-democrats are not in favour of these rights. When you have all these rights, you can also participate in the economy and trade, which lifts people out of poverty. That is why this is extremely clearly linked. Liberals also think that a feminist foreign policy is basically a very good thing, and here the government has taken the lead in the world. We would like to see this supplemented by a perspective on a value-based foreign policy and aid policy. It is a question of putting democracy as the primary objective. Madam President, I would like There is a lot of Liberals want to do with aid, and this can be read about in our development policy exercise. I will highlight a few things beyond the already mentioned focus on democracy and human rights. It is important to have development aid, on the one hand for the reasons already debated, and, on the other hand, to be able to use foreign policy to pressure countries to introduce reforms for democracy. It is important that we can also provide rich countries with aid for democracy. Even in countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia, we must be able to direct aid money to those who work for democracy. Madam President, I would like Strengthening climate aid will be even more important in the future. We have proposals for this at European and Swedish level. It is clear that this need will increase.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-903	Madam President, I would like It is a historic day in the Swedish Parliament. For the first time in eleven years, all parties here in Parliament agree on the one per cent target for Swedish development aid, i.e. that 1 per cent of GDP should be allocated to development aid for the poorest in the world. For me, who sees the needs in the world of both solidarity and development, this should be pleasing. The Moderates, who have long wanted to cut aid by a third, once again agree to the 1% target. The Swedish democrats, who have always wanted to cut aid and halve it in recent years, for the first time ever agree to the 1% target. How could this happen? We must, of course, send a thought of gratitude to the Christian Democrats – possibly also to the Liberals, who were in the negotiations on the right-wing budget but dropped out at a late stage. Of course, the draft budget of the Socialist-led government in the field of aid would not have had to be untouched if the Christian Democrats and possibly the Liberals had not stood up for the 1% target. But have the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats changed their views on the aid? Is the 1% target now secured again? No, Madam President, it is not, and we have heard that in today's debate. I have no reason to believe that the attacks and distrusts of solidarity and development cooperation will end from the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. Should it be the case that in less than a year's time Sweden will have a right-wing government, it will most likely be a much more difficult negotiating position for the Christian Democrats and Liberals. The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have here in Parliament got their budgetary framework through in the initial budget decision – budgetary frameworks that only change about 2 per cent of the total state budget for 2022. But there are changes in the clear right direction. If you have a lot of money, you'll get more, and if you have a little money, you'll get less. A government budget is about half a shelf meter long. The budget options of the Moderates, Sweden Democrats and Christian Democrats are about five A4 pages long. It was negotiated in overtime. Virtually all the committees here in Parliament have had extra meetings to discuss their proposals. Despite overtime, they agreed very little, and in the case of development aid, all three of them state in their specific opinions that no common direction of aid policy is proposed in the draft budget of these parties. It cannot be expressed more clearly than that. They have no common policy. But they have a shard of a common budget. It's not good enough to rule a country. A government must have politics and agree on politics. What policy will it be in the area of development, we and the voters will obviously have to wait to see and know. One thing they actually agree on. They want to earmark SEK 1 billion of development aid for the reconstruction of war-affected countries. This has been incorporated into the decision, and we Social Democrats support it. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report, the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, have proposed and received a response to make it clear that reconstruction of war-torn countries is something that Swedish aid is already going to, that it is described in the government's strategies how it is going to happen and that this billion will also be used in accordance with OECD-DAC regulations. This is something that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have also supported. So, do we have a deal? Are the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in common? No, the debate today does not indicate that. The earmarked billion for reconstruction has been described by Swedish democrats at their party meeting – the Land Days – as a return billion. This is a description that the Christian Democrats obviously do not agree with and which the Moderates seem to be clearly embarrassed about. Remember, the draft budget of these parties does not propose a common direction for aid policy. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I would like to reject any idea of reducing Swedish development aid as completely non-realistic. The global development agenda Agenda 2030, on which the world's countries have taken a joint decision at the UN, was already heavily under-funded before the co-decision. The pandemic has brought backward developments in almost all poor countries of the world, with increased poverty, poor health, less schooling, increased repression and reduced freedom of expression. In many respects, in just under two years the world has gone back 10 to 15 years. Today, the Agenda 2030 development agenda is even more underfunded than two years ago. Sweden is the ninth richest country in the world measured in economic prosperity per person, bnp per capita. To say that Sweden cannot afford a 1% target for development aid is either ignorant or unsolidaric or both, at a time when the pandemic shows devastatingly clear that solidarity is not only good for the poorest but also for the richest. In a more solidarity-based world, we pay jointly for people throughout the world to have access to vaccines against covid-19 and that the pandemic can therefore be stopped. According to several international measurements, Sweden has development aid that is both of high quality and has a low administrative cost. Sweden is a major donor to various UN agencies and thus also has a significant influence in these UN agencies. What and how Sweden does with its development aid is something that is closely followed by other countries. Sweden is seen as a forerunner, and if Sweden of all countries were to reduce its aid, it would be a very serious signal that would most likely lead to a large number of other countries thinking that they can also reduce their development aid. This, Madam President, would be quite the wrong way to go when the global development agenda Agenda 2030 is already heavily underfunded. It is no less with money for development that will reduce hunger, increase schooling, create new jobs, solve climate problems, increase democracy and freedom of expression or reduce gaps in the world. Global development needs more money, which is why Sweden will continue to go ahead and continue to meet the 1% target and work for more rich countries to take greater responsibility. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the motion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-917	Madam President, I would like Now it is a little bit anti-climax when there was a little break after the speech. But I was going to start by asking: what kind of debate is this? Why is the payment target so incredibly sacred that you automatically become evil if someone dares to question it? Of course we stand up for our priorities. I think that every party has a responsibility to actually stand up for its cause. Now we have negotiated a budget that is very good. But, of course, in this House too, we must be able to say where we want aid to go. I also wonder why nobody is interested in discussing even bigger budgets. Why is this 1% target so sacred that you can't even discuss walking away from it? One doesn't really rule out the other. What we have something against is the principle that we use it in this way. We believe that it is wrong, harmful and that aid is stuck somewhere when it could be much better and more effective. Why can we not discuss this issue?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-921	Madam President, I would like Aid, both the Swedish and the total international, is something that has developed very much over the last 50 years. It is a constant process of development and learning of what has been done in the past. There have been a number of international conferences on various themes over the years, which have gone through the governance, financing and structuring of aid. Sweden is at the forefront in meeting all these objectives and in constantly modernising its aid. Some time ago, I attended a seminar in which one of the Swedish researchers who, among other things, are engaged in research on aid expressed, as a picture of how the aid has changed over a few decades, that the aid workers in the 1970s went out to make revolution and that they are today going out to the world to do audits. It describes quite well how aid has changed for both good and evil. Today, aid is surrounded by an enormous amount of scrutiny, control and the pursuit of corruption and inefficiency. That's good. But one cannot take every detected case of corruption and every detected case of inefficiency into revenue because aid is bad, dangerous, harmful, pointless and something that should be reduced when the world looks as it does and the global development agenda is chronically underfunded. Madam President, I would like It takes 2 500 billion SEK per year to meet the UN's 2030 Agenda. And it was before the pandemic that was expected. The total financing of global aid is SEK 1 500 billion. There is therefore a shortage of SEK 1 000 billion.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-924	Madam President, I would like It is said that aid has developed over the last 50 years. This is true. What has not been done, however, is that someone has dared to question the principle of budgeting itself, which has been the same since the 1960s. We think that we should work more strategically with aid to actually achieve the goals we are looking for effectively. Where we choose to be, we will achieve very large and good results. It is very good that these corruption cases are found. It's really important. But there is a foundation in itself that creates problems. We have seen this in the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office. Several reports point to the existence of a pay-out press. Why don't you want to discuss it?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-926	Madam President, I would like We are well aware that payments are being fine-tuned at the end of the year. But it is also true that in this area progress has been made and improved. Today, Sida and other agencies are quite good at making calculations to land right at the end of the year to reach the 1 percent aid target – neither more nor less. When you see the development needs that exist in the world, and if you feel solidarity and also realize that if we help others it will be positive for us, it is very difficult to understand that the solution to various problems that the Moderates and Helena Storckenfeldt point to would be less money. Possibly it would be better order, but not less money. It will not solve the world's development problems.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-928	Madam President, I would like I thank Kenneth G. Forslund for a good speech. The Liberals and the Social Democrats agree on the 1% target, and we fundamentally agree on the budgetary framework. It's kind of nice. Much of this debate has now revolved around the fact that we have had to defend the 1% target from its detractors in the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, we do not agree on all aspects of the content, and we have the opportunity to debate this today. After all, in the January agreement it has been the Liberals who have pushed for the increased focus on democracy in aid policy. As is well known, the Social Democrats are good at taking credit for other people's things. They say they've always been for democracy and so on. The truth is, however, that in the January agreement it was quite hard for us to take up increasing the focus of democracy in aid policy. Another thing that is well known is that social democratic aid policy has historically often led to billions after billions being plowed into dictatorships. Now that the Social Democrats have taken on part of what is Liberal policy, which is about the focus on democracy, but perhaps not gone all the way, my question is what the Social Democrats and Social Democrats in Parliament will do in the future to strengthen the focus on democracy in aid policy. Will it be proposed, for example, that democracy be a declared primary objective of all aid policies? Or will a democracy criterion be introduced in terms of aid and thus further strengthen the democratic aspect of Swedish aid?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-933	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Social Democrats and the Liberals agree on the 1% target deserves a small historical digression, because we have not always been. When the one-percent target was to be decided here in the Swedish Parliament – I think it was 1968; it was supposed to be fulfilled in 1974, but it came to happen only 1976 due to the oil crisis – it was that while the debate was held in the Riksdag there were demonstrations out in the streets and squares around. In this House, the Liberals and the Left Party, as you now call your respective parties, supported the demands of the demonstrators outside the Parliament House. It was peoples' movements that demanded that Swedish aid should be 2%, so 1% is actually the compromise. It is a pleasure that the Liberals today are so inspired by that compromise. But I can say to continue writing history that the Moderates were already at that time opposed to going as far as 1 percent. The primary objective of today's aid is to combat poverty and oppression. If we are to combat oppression, then it is, of course, democracy that we want. This is a debate that we Social Democrats and Liberals and others tend to have from time to time. How will the aid work best to actually contribute to democratizing the world? Democracy is undoubtedly the best guarantee of avoiding poverty, but in the poorest and most oppressed countries, there is also a rather delicate balance between what is to come first in our aid work. There is nothing wrong with the Liberals' high ambition that we should always work for democracy, but sometimes it may not be entirely practical when it comes to supporting people who are in an extremely vulnerable situation. It'll be a little bit what will come first, the egg or the chicken?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-937	Madam President, I would like In the 1970s, the Liberals were against grades and definitely no NATO advocates, so I note that policy is evolving. As far as aid is concerned, I am proud of what we did then. Note that the 1% target is not about us having exactly 1%. It's about us having at least 1%. Of course, you can also express 2, 3, 4 or 5 percent if you like. Madam President, I would like I think this is interesting, because in my world it is not possible to fight poverty without also fighting for democracy. Democracy that respects human rights and people's right to do what they want with their lives is a prerequisite for combating poverty, because only free people can build prosperity. Only free people in a market economy can create prosperity together. It is not possible to fight poverty without fighting the opposite of democracy and fighting for democracy. I therefore hope that the Social Democrats will stand up for a democracy criterion.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-941	Madam President, I would like I believe that the overriding objective we have for aid today to combat poverty and oppression is a democracy criterion. Then I know that the Liberals want to take this even further. The question is how many countries and people we will be able to help with the model of the Liberals. That's what I can feel some concern about-- not the ambition itself. I share that very much. But it must not be what prevents us from helping people. The best must not be the enemy of the good.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-943	Madam President, I would like International cooperation may never have been more important than it is now. We are living at a time of several parallel and deeply intertwined crises: the climate crisis, the species crisis, a refugee crisis and a pandemic. The pandemic has clearly shown that we are vulnerable and that changes can come quickly. The disease itself means suffering and death, both for those affected and for their relatives. It creates risks of overburdening the health care system and of restricting people's rights and freedoms in order not to make more people sick. Weak or non-existent health systems have collapsed in several places. But the pandemic doesn't just strike directly. It is also hitting the world's economies. It continues to increase hunger and the number of poor people in the world. These figures are staggering: since the covid-19 hit, 120 million people are estimated to have been in extreme poverty, and over 400 million people are currently in need of direct humanitarian aid to survive. The pandemic has caused a decline in democracy and human rights, in gender equality and in children's and young people's education. 168 million children have suffered from school closures. 25 million people are at risk of never coming back again because, while schools have been closed, child marriage, violence against children and genital mutilation have increased. Women and girls have been hit particularly hard, both healthily and economically. Gender-based violence and violence against women and girls have increased, estimated at over 30 percent since the pandemic started. Madam President, I would like In addition to the pandemic itself and its devastating consequences, we also have the crisis for climate and biodiversity. Man has started a war against nature. We must make peace with the planet. That is what the UN Secretary-General said some time ago, and he is right. The climate crisis has disastrous consequences for human life, health and safety everywhere on our planet. The United Nations Panel on Climate Change's latest report, which came in August, shows that the world's climate is changing rapidly. Sea levels are rising, and various forms of extreme weather are increasing. In the Arctic and the northernmost parts of Sweden, warming is twice as high as the global average. We know that it is the poorest parts of the world that will be hardest hit by climate change. Crops will be wiped away or flooded. Both humans and cattle will thirst to death. Housing will be blown away by storms and entire communities flooded. We are already seeing it today. Every tenth of a degree of heating that we can avoid is important to limit the risks and damage. However, it is clear that the pandemic and the climate and species crises have made it even more difficult to achieve the global goals of sustainable development. Many years of positive development have failed. Madam President, I would like In this dark picture, Swedish development cooperation is a light. We know what needs to be done. The parallel crises of the world must be met and fought with a long-term view and a firm conviction that more international cooperation is needed in these times, not less. We must combat the pandemic with financial resources as well as doses and the building of health systems. Sweden is one of the leading countries in the work for an efficient and rapid global vaccine distribution. The last decision of the government consisting of the Social Democrats and the Green Party was to donate 1 million doses to Rwanda. Today, we are the world's largest donor to global vaccine covax, in terms of population, of both medicines and vaccine doses. We want it to continue that way. At the same time, however, work on other poverty-related diseases must continue – including the work against antibiotic resistance. Madam President, I would like The pandemic will continue to be a major challenge for the world. While we are fighting the pandemic, now that the economy is taking off again, we also need to bring this to everyone's attention. We must help to reduce inequalities in and between countries. We need an economy that gives us more equality and more equality. The global democratic decline has been reinforced in several countries by the pandemic. It is therefore crucial that we continue with a strong focus on democracy in aid. We must continue to make clear demands on Sweden's partner countries to comply with the principles of the rule of law and human rights. Support for human rights defenders, including environmental defenders, trade union representatives, indigenous peoples and civil society organisations, must be continued. Human rights are also women's rights, and feminist foreign and development policies play a major role. Sweden's work for global equality and the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls must continue with full force. Women's rights to their own bodies, economic empowerment and participation in society must be strengthened. Women's rights are an absolute goal in themselves, but women are also actors of change. More equality enables us to cope more quickly with the recovery that needs to take place. Madam President, I would like As little as we can solve the pandemic alone, we can solve the climate crisis alone. We must act together, and we have no time to lose. Here, too, we go before Sweden, and we must continue to do so. Our climate aid has increased in recent years, and we must now continue to work to increase the proportion of aid to climate, environment and biodiversity. We have 1 billion more next year, and we have a doubling to 2025. This means that no money should be spent on investments in fossil energy and that we should increase support for renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy distribution. Priority must continue to be given to support for development banks and global environmental and climate funds. They are an important tool for strengthening the global work on biodiversity and its ecosystem services, a non-toxic circular economy and efforts for healthy seas. Children and young people are hard hit by climate change. Future generations must be placed at the heart of the recovery. We should make this particularly clear at the Stockholm+50 environmental conference, which will be held next year and which will strengthen environmental work forward. Madam President, I would like Sweden will continue to be a friend of the UN. Large flexible core support provides the opportunity for UN organisations to develop and to be flexible in their efforts. This gives the ability to do what is needed when needed. Situations can change rapidly, and then help must also be redirected quickly. The 1% target shall be maintained. It is an investment in our common future. When the rain forest is threatened and burned, the climate of our entire planet is threatened. When the world suffers a pandemic, we are thrown into uncertainty about the future. Therefore, Sweden's aid – a world-class aid – is something we should be proud of and protect. It's not something we're supposed to undermine. We do not reverse developments in the world by backing back, but by taking on it. We need more global cooperation, not less.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-966	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson has talked a lot about the effects of the pandemic and what is required of aid to overcome them. It is important that we include this in the aid plan for some time to come. How long? It is determined by how long it takes before the whole world is vaccinated to the same extent as the rich part of the world. Until then, the mutations will come in new waves. It is not enough for the rich part of the world to produce, buy up and pax vaccines. That egotism is now hitting hard back when only 42.7 percent are vaccinated in the world. It is only when everyone has access to vaccines that we can breathe out. Among other things, India, Brazil, the United States, France and the European Parliament are pressing for the temporary removal of patent rights. So does the Health Association, as well as many other civil society organisations and humanitarian and multilateral organisations. This would reduce the price per dose, and thus we would receive many more doses of the aid for vaccines that I suspect Janine Alm Ericson has been involved in chising. Now that the Green Party is no longer a member of the government, I wonder whether Janine Alm Ericson and the Green Party should not join the Left Party in calling for the suspension of patent and immaterial protection so that, so to speak, we get more bang.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-970	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Yasmine for the question. What Yasmine Posio says is incredibly important. We must do everything in our power to ensure that more people are vaccinated. Until everyone's safe, no one's safe. We have said it many times, and unfortunately – with the development that we are now seeing, with variants that spread quickly across the world – we will have to say it very many more times. There are, of course, many reasons why the distribution of vaccines is so unequal in the world. What Yasmine Posio has just asked about concerns changes to patent rights. In this respect, the international legal framework already provides for compulsory licences to be used. This is a tool that is now being used and which is being opened up. Unfortunately, it is difficult to manufacture these vaccines even if licences are available. Another thing that has happened is that trade barriers have been set up in times when we would need to have even more trade in this. We have been monitoring this issue in the meantime in the government and will continue to monitor it so that we remove as many obstacles as possible and can continue to ensure that even more are vaccinated as soon as possible.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-975	Madam President, I would like I didn't really get the answer to the question. Now it sounded as if Janine Alm Ericson was still working at the Government Office and was not a Member of Parliament in a free standing party. There are trade barriers and other things that need to be removed, and we are also behind this. However, when it comes to patent and immaterial protection, many others are in favour of not only using the coercive measures that exist, but at the moment actually lifting the protection for a while in order to get more doses for the money that we have the opportunity to give in aid for this. First of all, I think it is about solidarity with the outside world. Secondly, it is about avoiding these recurring mutations so that we can breathe out and live our lives as usual.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-979	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of things. I think it feels like Yasmine Posio does not really want to see all the challenges that exist, but has focused only on the issue of patent rights. I think it is very important that we try to work as much as possible within the systems that we have developed. Starting new ways of working does not usually succeed in a situation of crisis. There are compulsory licences. They should be used as far as possible. If it comes to the conclusion that we are not getting there with this, but that what Yasmine Posio is now talking about would give a huge boost, we are, of course, open to looking at it. Of course, in a pandemic, the focus must be on getting as much medicine as possible to as many people as possible.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-982	Madam President, I would like Yesterday Janine Alm Ericson and I attended the MR days in Gothenburg. I thought it was a good conversation, but I would like to continue the discussion that was raised at the seminar, aid in a new time. Democracy is backing up in many parts of the world, and the situation of human rights defenders, democracy fighters, women, journalists and LGBT people continues to become more difficult. Democracy is threatened not only in developing countries but also in our neighbourhood. One example of an effort that for the vast majority should be seen as aid in the Swedish interest is to support the democracy movement in Russia. Russia, however, is not a country where OECD-DAC measures can be classified as aid. I would therefore like to hear whether Janine Alm Ericson believes that support for the democratic movement in Russia is also aid or whether it is something quite different.
i-TNwXJ95QYiV5ZDuADfKZNb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Storckenfeldt, for the question! Aid is what OECD-Dac designates as aid. I think it is incredibly important that we keep that definition as high as possible. Otherwise, the regulations and clarity of what is aid and what we can use aid money for and not be eroded quite quickly. We know that there are several parties, including the Moderates, who would like to spend more aid money on other things that are not aid money today. It's a matter of definition. The fact that we do not have any democratic aid to the Russian opposition is a completely different issue. It is, of course, something that we have to look at when it comes to the loss of democratic space, human rights abuses and so on in Russia, which we know is a situation that is getting worse for almost every day. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you a question. After all, today's debate has been very much about the 1% target. It must do so, because it is also about all the billions that are actually in this budget. The Moderates continue to say that we must use another way of doing things. It may well be 0.7%, but today we may not have heard it as clearly. If you hold democracy and human rights as high as you say, but still have humanitarian aid, and if you want to increase humanitarian aid, you will have to cut by over 50% in the other areas. Does it make sense, then, to stand here and say that all the other aid objectives are kept so high, when we know that there will be cuts?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-990	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a priority that we are making in aid and between all areas of expenditure. That's how you have to work in politics. We want to focus on aid for a reason. But I will always stand up for democracy, no matter where that movement or struggle takes place in the world, including Russia. We want to reform the OECD-DAC regulatory framework and, above all, have the freedom to do what we think is good and right. When it comes to development cooperation and aid that is managed and financed by the Swedish state, it is right and proper to invest in aid that is not only good for the recipients but also in Swedish interest. It's not weird for us. We believe that we need a completely different freedom in order to be able to stand up for democratic movements throughout the world.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-993	Madam President, I would like Then I and Helena Storckenfeldt have something in common – that we are prepared to stand up for democracy and human rights wherever it is needed in the world. After all, there is a clear decline. Therefore, we must be very clear from the Swedish side that this is an incredibly important priority. As I think Joar Forssell said earlier, it is difficult to get a positive development in a country if there is no democracy. I am concerned by the information that Helena Storckenfeldt is now giving about how to define aid, because then there are all the possibilities to finance basically what you want with the aid if it goes in Swedish direction and for Swedish interests. But aid is there to lift poor people out of poverty and oppression. It is incredibly important that we keep an eye on it, and the Green Party really wants to be in the middle of it.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-995	Madam President, I would like Aid is indeed a means of valuing. It is solidarity and justice. Having said that, there is an enormous force in development cooperation and aid. Properly used, it is a driving force for development that lifts people out of poverty, creates jobs when we deal with the effects of climate change, relieves distress, strengthens women's and girls' rights, increases equality and combats undemocratic and corrupt governance. In the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister highlighted three key priorities: reducing segregation and fighting crime; taking back control of welfare; and creating jobs by managing climate change. The latter is also very much true of aid. It is important that we look at and take advantage of the development power of aid. I would like to think that effective aid used for what it is intended for is more important than ever. We are in a time of continuing great challenges that are complex and interconnected. Sweden can build security in a troubled world, because it is good for Sweden and good for the world. The covidpandemine is not over, and Sweden is not out of the pandemic until the world is out of the pandemic. Too few people are vaccinated in low-income and lower middle-income countries. Therefore, we should be at the forefront and contribute to fair access to vaccines. The Coronapendemy has led to an increase in the number of people living in poverty and famine. The pandemic has significantly affected the achievement of the global sustainable development goals by 2030 and jeopardises many of the progress made in recent decades. In Sweden we will of course continue to vaccinate our own population, but we will also contribute to fair access to vaccines in the world. We are already one of the largest donors per capita. If more countries in the world did what we did, the vaccination coverage in the world would have looked much better. We're going to push for this, because nobody's safe until everyone's safe. The global democratic decline has been reinforced in several countries by the pandemic. In many countries corruption continues to spread. Gender equality work is made more difficult, children's and girls' right to school, everyone's access to sexual and reproductive health and rights and economic empowerment are threatened. The pandemic has hit women and young people particularly hard when it comes to exposure to violence, and it interacts with the shrinking democratic space. Therefore, the government continues its efforts to strengthen women's and girls' rights, as well as our strong commitment to all aspects of anti-corruption work and to strengthen democracies, and this continues with unabated strength. Here, as in many areas of aid, civil society and its support and commitment are extremely important. The Government's efforts at democracy aim to further strengthen contacts with civil society and with human rights defenders. With regard to the climate crisis, it is we who decide how to save humanity on our planet. It is up to us to decide, including with our assistance, how we can deal with the effects of climate change and build a more sustainable world. All regions of the world are affected by disasters such as prolonged droughts, violent fires and devastating floods. It's getting more and more common. At the same time, we know that it is the poorer parts of our world that will be hardest hit. Wars, conflicts and the effects of climate change hit those who are already at risk, the poorest countries, the poorest populations, and especially women and children. Often it is also those who have not contributed themselves to the climate crisis in which the world is now in. Therefore, Sweden is doubling its climate aid. The refugee situation has worsened in the world. Last year, 82 million people were forced to flee. Humanitarian needs continue to increase in the wake of covids, conflicts and climate change. According to the UN, 235 million people now need emergency humanitarian aid. Ethiopia, Yemen, Venezuela and, not least, Afghanistan, are countries where humanitarian crises may worsen significantly in the near future. We are ready to do more to alleviate humanitarian distress. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the target of 1% of BNI is fixed. Now is not the time to shake this up, but the other way round. This is a must for the world. It benefits the world and Sweden in everything from health to human rights, trade and security policy issues. I can tell the House that, as the new Minister for Development, I plan to make my first trip to the world with the Minister for Foreign Trade. We know that it is through trade that we build a safer world. Just as we at home can build security in and around new jobs, so do we in the world. Swedish aid is not only great. It is also high-quality. OECD-Dac confirmed by spring 2019 Sweden as a skilled and result-oriented donor who stands for international principles of effective development cooperation. We'll be proud of that and take care of it. This high level of ambition retains the government. The money should be used efficiently and wisely. Where irregularities are detected, operators shall be held to account. Anything else is unacceptable. Next year, the aid framework will increase to 57.4 billion. This is an increase of approximately SEK 5 billion. These SEK 5 billion will further contribute to what is Swedish aid, namely ensuring global and fair access to vaccines for the management of the pandemic and lifting people out of poverty, not least by ensuring that new jobs are created when we deal with the effects of climate change in what we hope will be the recovery during the pandemic. We are also helping to alleviate the growing humanitarian distress and save lives in the event of crises and disasters. We strengthen democracy and work further to increase gender equality. In 2022, we will use an additional 2.1 billion of these EUR 5 billion for fairer and equitable access to and distribution of vaccines. We will double the climate aid compared to 2019. We intend to reach a level of 15 billion by 2025. Already in 2022, we are strengthening climate action by up to 1 billion. This will contribute to a green transition that creates jobs and jobs at home but also in our partner countries. More than SEK 1 billion is allocated to strengthen humanitarian aid. It is about saving lives through increased support to organizations within the UN such as the World Food Programme and strengthened opportunities for Sida to respond to humanitarian needs and crises. The government will also continue to support refugees and the countries taking care of them. Human rights are universal. The fight for democracy, human dignity and respect never ends. Nor does it end at Sweden's borders. With Sweden's cross-border democracy effort, we want to reverse authoritarian tendencies and promote democracy throughout the world. The government will continue to strengthen bilateral aid in 2022 as it benefits the most vulnerable in individual countries. Emphasis is placed on an increase in Africa, including new regional strategies. Supplements are also made to the Middle East and North Africa and the appropriations for Eastern Europe, the Western Balkans and Turkey. Swedfund will receive a capital injection of 1.2 billion in 2022. This is SEK 200 million more than in 2021. This is done so that Swedfund can continue to invest in sustainable companies with a focus on the development of sustainable companies, climate neutral portfolios, investments in renewable energy, increased gender equality and decent working conditions. Sida's guarantee framework is extended by an additional SEK 1 billion to SEK 18 billion. Madam President, I would like I would like to draw attention to the fact that in June next year Sweden and Kenya will host the UN meeting Stockholm+ 50. As the initiator and host of the meeting, Sweden hopes to contribute to further steps to accelerate the implementation of commitments under Agenda 2030 and towards a sustainable recovery. There are major challenges in the world. Then, as moderates and Swedish democrats, wanting to meet the challenges of billions of cuts in international aid really feels like a thought-wreck as just one – whatever we shall now call them – brown-blue right can do. Unlike Moderates and Swedish Democrats, I am one of those who believe that what we all want most, each of us, is to wake up in our own home in the morning, send our children to school, go to work with decent working conditions, come home at night and know that the whole family comes home in the evening to enjoy a common dinner – a common everyday safety that no one is forced or wants to escape from. But wars and conflicts, an escalating climate crisis, the pandemic, inequality, a shrinking space for civil society and setbacks in the work for women's rights challenge this ambition. Swedish aid is needed to reverse the trend and to achieve the global goals. Aid as a driving force for development is more important than for a long time. More people should do what we do. The world we build together, in respect for each other, is a better and safer world.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1020	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Minister of State, to work on Sweden's development cooperation and development policy! It is an important piece of work, which I think we all understand. I hope that we will have a good cooperation and constructive though sometimes a bit tough dialogue. It feels great to have a change of line where we do not need to talk about funding; there we are basically in complete agreement, at least on the scope. I want to talk about the content. Now, for almost eight years, the Social Democrats have held the government power in various constellations, although they have not always held the Ministry of Development. However, as I mentioned in my main speech, I think there is a lack of strength and willingness to tighten up and develop the Swedish development policy and the Swedish contribution to development cooperation. In the Center Party's motion, we mention some of the things that we want to do to tighten this up. We want to pick with civil society and business more and get more development power and mobilise more resources. We talk about, among other things, the centre we want to create so that there will be a way in for actors to hook up with Swedish aid and development cooperation. We are talking about what we would like to do with the EU's aid work, where we think that Sweden can target a much clearer force. We are talking about the need to focus our contribution to the multilateral system. It's not wrong with everything that's lined up by the government, but it's not a lot of news. In addition to what has been done before, what is the Social Democracy want with Swedish aid? That's my first question. I'll try to squeeze another question into my last half-minute. It's much shorter. In this budget there are some important and probably also good investments in the bilateral, as the Government mentioned. But if you look at the scale, you can see that we are once again putting the big cake in the multilateral system. This is a trend that we have had for a long time and which I do not think is merely a good one. A strong multilateral system is important. We have UN organisations that are doing an extremely important job. But when we put the cake there, it also means that we do not develop the bilateral, where we can really go in with Swedish values and hook arms with civil society. Why do you do this?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1026	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for welcoming me to the aid debate. I'm really looking forward to this. As I said, aid is really something that is deeply valued. It is about justice and solidarity. Sweden has for many years been an important player for peace, democracy and human rights around the world. It's something we're supposed to take care of. It is a work that is done over the years and has a long-term perspective in itself that we should be careful of and continue to develop. Not least, I am very pleased to see that there is still such strong support in this House for the development policy that Sweden is pursuing. There are really only two parties that register themselves. Otherwise, we all have a great and deep commitment that this is Sweden's voice in the world and that it serves Sweden well. I think that the government now led by Magdalena Andersson has been clear about how we should continue to work on development policy. Not least in her declaration of government, she was very clear that we should stand by the 1% target. It means a highly ambitious aid where we see the value of it worldwide but also the value of it for us here at home in Sweden. It is about combating poverty. But poverty reduction is now largely about tackling the effects of climate change and, just like here at home, creating jobs when we deal with the effects of climate change at home but also around the world. It is about democracy, democracy building and girls' and women's rights. This is what I feel a very strong commitment to continuing to develop in relation to Swedish aid policy. I am convinced that we will be able to find each other there too.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1030	Madam President, I would like In short, I can say that there is nothing I do not agree with in what the Government said. But there was not much answer to the questions I asked. Although it is the Center Party that has been pushing for democracy aid to focus aid, together with the Liberals, the government has said earlier during the term of office that it would not be wrong with a certain focus on Swedish aid and that we can sharpen our added value. I still think that's true. But you've had a very hard time telling me how to sharpen it. I believe that the answer is still to be found guilty. What are we doing the best? What is most important, and what needs to be a little extra priority? That does not necessarily have to be the same answer that the Center Party has come up with. We can discuss that. But it is important to consider how we sharpen our contribution. In addition, there is multilateralism. I understand why we're slipping and putting more and more into that system. It's easier. We do not have to take responsibility for the administrative appropriations. Together, we have raised them earlier in the parliamentary term, but they are still too low. Then it is more convenient to put it in the multilateral system. But that's where we lose effect.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1034	Madam President, I would like We shall have effective assistance used for what it is intended for. It is the government's entry, whether it is aid that we channel through multilateral organisations or whether it is aid that we channel bilaterally. Either way, we should use the money we receive in confidence, take in confidence, from people with our common tax money to highly ambitious aid. It is clear that we should ensure that it is effective aid that is used for what it is intended for. Here, too, I think we can find each other very close. It is a work which is extremely important and which has been a priority of the S-MP Government and which will continue to be a priority of the government in which I am a member and in which I am now a minister of aid. I also think that we are clear about what we see as being able to contribute to aid policy across the world in general but also in what we have added value in here at home.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1037	Madam President, I would like It has been said before, and I am happy to say it again: it is important to develop and improve aid. That is why I would now like to highlight guarantee activities. Last spring, the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the guarantee activities in the aid. It is a new way of channeling and contributing to the development of countries. In many other countries justified criticism is being levelled at guarantee activities when those countries use aid funds to do so. Aid funds that could have been used, for example, for health care, schools and stable tax authorities are therefore high if any loans paid out were not to be repaid. Sweden has instead chosen to use the National Debt Office in terms of guarantees and in this way can continue with other necessary assistance. I think that's good. This also highlights the Swedish National Audit Office as a positive thing when it has reviewed the warranty business. On the other hand, the justified criticism is directed at Sida's evaluations, which are not yet accurate enough to see whether the aid policy objectives are actually achieved by the guarantee activities. Unfortunately, there is also no research showing the effects of the guarantee activities. That's what I'm asking for. We also know that women mainly work in the public sector. Since guarantee activities are mainly aimed at entrepreneurship, there is a great risk that this support will largely go to men, which concerns me. While I think it is a good thing that we are trying new ways, it is important that we do not expand the guarantee business even further until we have clear results showing that it works and that it is aimed at women as much as it is at men, or even more so at women. Madam President, I would like I am therefore interested to hear how Minister Matilda Ernkrans views the guarantee business and the risk that it counteracts gender equality work.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1042	Madam President, I would like I am very well aware of the Swedish National Audit Office's report. As Yasmine Posio and the rest of you here, I have also been a Member of Parliament. I know that you also know that the Government will respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's report in a letter to Parliament this spring. Then will the government's overall assessment of this. Nevertheless, I try to be very clear in this debate. It is clear that the aid for which we spend our common money should go to what it is intended for. It is a work that has been a priority of the S-MP government and will continue to be a priority also of the government that I am now part of as Minister of Aid. That's a bit of a boring answer, but that's the answer I can give you. Nevertheless, I can add that we are saying that we should continue to give priority not least to women's and girls' rights and gender equality. It is also part of the fact that we are still very much part of feminist foreign policy. We also regularly analyse how our policies are coherent and live up to what we want them to contribute to.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1045	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We will have to come back to the subject when we know more about the effects of warranty operations. It is interesting that Matilda Ernkrans highlights feminist foreign policy. One thing that concerns me is that it was not highlighted in this year's declaration of government. It was not mentioned in September either. I would have expected that with a female prime minister the feminist foreign policy would have a prominent role in the declaration. This is especially true given that we in the Left Party as feminists were expected to vote for a female prime minister without getting anything for it. As the Government Declaration sends an important signal to both Sweden and the outside world, I am very worried that this will lead to organisations and other countries seeing it as that Sweden no longer believes that women's and girls' rights are equally important. This can lead to less impact on the gender equality work we support through aid. How does Matilda Ernkrans think about this?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1048	Madam President, I would like If anyone's worried, I can calm down. It is clear that this government with a female prime minister and a woman development minister will continue to stand up for women's and girls' rights. In the Government Declaration, it was also very clear that aid should also address the effects of climate change more clearly. We know that it is women and children who are most affected by the effects of climate change around the world. Gender equality and women's and girls' rights and opportunities will also be a very active part in the future. There's no need to doubt that. In addition, if you focus further on employment policy, it is not least women who, in many ways, carry the whole family if you can get a livelihood and a better development.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1051	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I find it very regrettable that the Government does not seem to have more respect for democratically elected parties and choose to use such expressions, especially these days. But that's not what I was going to talk about, but I was going to talk about the guarantee instrument. Swedish aid will make a real difference, and I think Matilda Ernkrans and I agree on that. Today, however, we see that the payment target is putting sticks in the wheels. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report, Sida's employees stated that the cost-effectiveness of guarantees is a challenge, simply because they do not generate payments. Employees thus feel a great pressure to generate payouts rather than to use the most optimal tools available. Let us remember that it is growth, not aid, that builds prosperity. My question to the Government is therefore: does she think that the removal of guarantees is problematic for effective aid?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1054	Madam President, I would like It is well different things one might think is regrettable and sad in the situation that Sweden is in today and in how the various political parties have chosen to make their positions. I think it is a pity that we have party leaders who promised Holocaust survivors a few years ago never to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats and who have now not only decided to cooperate with them, but have also put themselves in a position where the party cannot even take a step if you cannot take arm hook with the Swedish Democrats in various negotiations. I think that is a pity, not least when we talk about an area as important as international aid. I know that the honourable Member has a strong commitment to this, and I had hoped that the honourable Member would have used this commitment, not least in his own party, to stand up for Sweden to continue to have high and ambitious aid at the 1% level in the future. Instead, the honourable Member is trying to wriggle around the fact that we want to make billions of cuts in aid without actually telling us why we need to cut back on aid. We shall have aid that works, that goes to the things it is intended for and that reduces corruption – all these things we agree on. What we do not agree on is why the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats think that billion cuts in aid are needed. I think that's a shame.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1058	Madam President, I would like I don't think I got an answer at all. We have an effective tool that is rejected, and we do not think that we are right. On page 6 you can read that employees feel that Sida's management prioritises payments of aid funds over the mobilisation of capital. It can then be read that several employees feel that there are stronger incentives to use other instruments to implement the aid. They feel that internal follow-up prioritises payments. We don't think this is right and proper. And it doesn't really matter if the framework is extended, because it doesn't help if the employees at Sida actually don't use this instrument. Aron Emilsson raised an important question in a previous change of line: What do you want to do to respond to the criticism? This is not the first time the Swedish National Audit Office has raised similar problems.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1062	Madam President, I would like As I replied earlier, and as the Member of Parliament should also know, the government will respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's report in a letter to the Riksdag during the spring. Then will the government's overall assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. I have repeatedly said in the debate that nobody needs to be concerned; this government is very committed to aid and will continue to work hard to ensure that aid is used for what it is intended for. We have done so, and we will continue to do so. We will do so by also standing up for aid to be 1% of GDP. What we do not get answers to in this debate is why, on the part of the Moderates, a reduction of billions of aid is required in order for you to stand up for Swedish aid.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1065	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for a committed speech! You have to say that it is a maiden speech in this context. The Government talks about democratic work and that those who do not use aid funds properly should be held accountable. Development in the Palestinian territories continues to go in the wrong direction. Incitement to violence, indoctrination and hate speech are commonplace. It is urgent to support the Palestinian population, but the Christian Democrats demand that no assistance be given to the Palestinian Authority as long as the Authority and its representatives engage in terrorist homage and incitement to violence against Israel and violate fundamental human rights. Stronger demands for control must also be placed on other organisations in the Palestinian territories that receive Swedish aid. The Christian Democrats have criticised the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees, UNRWA, which has not helped to solve the Palestinians' problems in the long term. Instead, UNRWA has institutionalised a system of inherited refugee status and permanent refugee camps. In a 2019 review report, serious allegations were made against the organisation's top management, which engages in nepotism, reprisals and other abuses for personal gain and to silence legitimate criticism. The criticism of inefficiency and corruption led several countries, including Switzerland, the Netherlands, New Zealand and Belgium, to freeze their contributions. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should also freeze aid and instead transfer this task to the UNHCR, which handles all other refugee situations. Is the Minister prepared to support such a development in the long term?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1071	Madam President, I would like As Minister for Development, I have already provided answers to written questions about this. The government is sticking to what we have said in the past about this. Having said that, aid in this regard should go to what it is intended for, as in other areas. This is supposed to follow the rules that exist and the rules that apply. I have already answered written questions, and I am responding somewhat as the S-MP government has answered earlier about this.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1073	Madam President, I would like It would be interesting to hear the Minister also explain in the pulpit of the Parliament's Chamber what these answers contain. To follow the rules and so on, says the Minister here, and that the aid should go to what it is intended for. But with what consequences? What is the Minister prepared to do to prevent money, directly or indirectly, from supporting acts of terrorism, indoctrination and violence propaganda? This is a very serious issue. Is the Minister prepared in the long term to work through the UN organisation to dismantle UNRWA and instead transfer the mission to UNHCR, which deals with similar issues in the rest of the world?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1075	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid should not go to acts of terror or anti-Semitism, and neither does it.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1076	Madam President, I would like I had also intended to welcome Matilda Ernkrans's welcome to the spending area and to the committee, and I had anticipated and hoped for a constructive spirit in the debate. But I cannot help but note how busy the Social Democrats are with stones. If you do not turn over every stone you throw stones in glass houses, now in this chamber by throwing yourself with the epithet as blue brown without looking at your own history and present or seeing the beam in your own eye. There are high breast tones from Matilda Ernkrans around the aid. However, there are no answers and proposals for action when it comes to the three different reports I referred to in my speech, which highlight major shortcomings and criticise the way in which parts of Swedish aid work today. One lacks an answer to why it believes that just 1% of the state budget should go to aid. I have still not heard an answer to that question. I note that the government wants to continue providing assistance to UNRWA, which was affected in the previous shift of the line, and thereby also fattening anti-Semitism. I think that is worth thinking about when you raise questions about the Holocaust in this House. If you are to turn over every stone, I also wonder why aid is the exception. What conclusions do Matilda Ernkrans and the Government draw from the fact that three critical reviews have been presented in 2021? We relate to these objective evaluations and have drawn clear conclusions, but why has the government not done the same? Is there a response that the opposition or we in committee do not know about how to address the criticism that has been made?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1081	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have Nazi roots. Jimmie Åkesson, your party leader, has himself said that unlike my party leader, Magdalena Andersson, he will never leave his history. Having said that, Swedish aid should go to what it is intended for. Swedish aid does not go to acts of terror and anti-Semitism. I can only see that the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats here agree that they do not think we should support the Palestinian population with aid. I think I see some kind of thread in this authoritarian move that is at least with the Swedish Democrats. You also want to control what public service should look like, which channels should be closed and left behind. The Swedish Democrats are also alone in this House in thinking that they should decide for themselves what is research. Gender and gender equality are not research, according to the Swedish Democrats. And in the area that I am now stepping into, aid, the Swedish Democrats will sit and decide that there will be no aid to Palestinians. I'm paying attention to that development. We Social Democrats have said that we have a red line, and that is that we do not cooperate with Swedish democrats. I'm not gonna do that either.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1085	Madam President, I would like There's a lot to deal with in this line shift. I propose to begin with a study in political history and political science. Then look carefully at what history the Swedish Democrats have in relation to, for example, the Social Democrats, who have a much dirtier history. But also see the fact that, for our part, we are preparing a White Paper which from an academic point of view will examine the history of Sweden's democrats so that it is given a clear picture of these constant accusations that are pasted on us, not least by the Social Democrats. It is not that we cannot or do not want to support the Palestinian population or the Palestinians. It is about Sweden feeding through Swedish aid an organisation that promotes anti-Semitism. Surely that cannot be one of the priorities of the Social Democrats in the aid debate? Then Matilda Ernkrans brings in a number of issues that actually concern everything except the development debate we have today, both public services, gender studies and other parts. I can only say that the Swedish Democrats are not pursuing any of the policies that Matilda Ernkrans says.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1088	Madam President, I would like Again: There are no Swedish aid funds for terrorist acts or anti-Semitism. The Swedish Democrats often have a lot of views on all other parties but do not want to take responsibility for their own. Then it is not only about its history but also about what Swedish democrats are doing here and now and what political ideology you belong to. It cannot be strange to be called the ideology to which you belong. As far as aid is concerned, I find it very difficult to believe that the Swedish Democrats suddenly represent international solidarity and justice and that that is why you want to halve aid. No, it's not about that. You do not stand up for international solidarity – neither here.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1091	Madam President, I would like Historically, if we are to say anything about it, the Liberals have wanted higher aid than the Social Democrats, although we now agree that we should have 1% in aid. So we do not need to talk so much about the framework, but can go directly on the content. I have a question about democracy. It's natural. The Liberals, in the January agreement, got the government to increase democratic aid. We also think that democracy should be the primary objective of all aid policies. There's supposed to be a democracy criterion. I had earlier in the debate a change of line with a colleague of the Minister, another Social Democrat. It showed that democracy is certainly important and something that the Social Democrats are behind – it is even in the name of the Social Democrats – but, at the same time, from a social democratic perspective, may not always be superior. In the previous shifts here that have concerned UNRWA and Swedish aid to Palestine, the Government has also rejected the criticism that exists against this aid, that it could directly or indirectly contribute to anti-Semitism, war, terror and so on. My question is this: if it should appear during the time of the State Council as Minister for Development that Swedish aid has led directly or indirectly to any of the things that the aid projects are accused of, is Minister Ernkrans prepared to prioritise democracy, to have a democracy criterion and to freeze this aid? Or is this one of the cases we have heard of before where, according to the Social Democrats, democracy has to stand back for other values?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1095	Madam President, I would like Once again, I am pleased to meet a party with which we agree that it serves Sweden and the world well that we have 1% of GDP in aid and work together with so that more rich countries in the world will also provide more in international aid. It is something that would build a safer and safer world for all of us. Combating poverty and oppression, as we also heard Kenneth G. Forslund from the Social Democrats say, is in itself a democracy criterion. That's how we look at it. Then I have said many times in this debate alone that aid should go to what it is intended for. Of course, if irregularities occur, they must be dealt with. There's no money for the Taliban. There should be no money for anti-Semitism. There should be no money for acts of terror. As Minister for Development, I have already given answers to a number of written questions concerning UNRWA and the Palestinians. We're not there now. We do not share the picture painted here. You also have to work with this organization, and you have done so, to make sure that it actually becomes right and proper. But we don't share the picture painted here. It goes without saying that money should not go to acts of terror and anti-Semitism. However, if there are irregularities, here or elsewhere, we must, of course, try to deal with it.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1099	Madam President, I would like For me, fighting oppression and poverty is not enough to count it as democracy. For example, I believe that free choice and respect for people's rights and freedoms is a fundamental principle. The problem with aid is that it can be an indirect and direct support for organisations or actors that do not protect democracy. I have another question for the Government. It is about what the Swedish Democrats call re-migration billions. They've called it that in the media and on their country days, I think it's called. We have also heard the Moderates and Christian Democrats here in the pulpit today deny that it is a return billionaire. But the Prime Minister sits on all the resources at the Government Office and knows how the government views this budget. The government has chosen to rule with it. My question is simply: is it the way it seems in this debate that the Swedish democrats are simply lying to their voters when they call it a return billion? Is this already running out of ordinary development aid?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1102	Madam President, I would like We also respect Parliament's handling of these issues. Not least in the committee's handling of this, it has been made very clear that this is a description of this billion which means what aid is already being used for.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1103	Madam President, I would like There have been many questions about what SD actually wants to do in aid policy – perhaps too few, because the important thing is surely what we want to do and not that we jump at each other. For those who want to know more about what we want to do, our 28-page committee motion is available, but I would like to outline a few main features. We want Sweden to be a country that helps the most poor and vulnerable in the world. On the one hand, it can be a matter of emergency relief in cases such as earthquakes or conflicts. On the other hand, and in the long term far more important, it is about helping countries out of the worst poverty so that they can build a prosperity where no one is starving and more and more countries and people can reach what Hans Rosling called lower middle class. There people can feel secure about their future and that of their family. Clearer objectives and more impartial evaluation are therefore important elements in effective aid work. The money has to go where they do the most good. We want high demands to be made that aid does not go to corruption. Several speakers have already stayed, but I do not think anyone has mentioned that evaluations have said that the proliferation of corruption due to the huge amount of aid to Afghanistan may have contributed to a reduction in the resilience to the return of the Taliban. This is a typical example of when we haven't followed up enough. Other countries also receive the same criticism, not least the United States, perhaps I should mention. We also demand that aid countries do not undermine human rights. Sweden should issue warnings of non-aid, and they must in fact also lead to the suspension of aid at times. We want to support fewer UN organisations than we do today. Sweden is an aid country. Other countries may choose to give priority to other UN organisations, but we should pool our efforts in terms of both countries and UN organisations with which we work. Then we will have a better dialogue with them, and we will also have better control over where the money goes. We usually mention UNHCR and not UNRWA as an example, because we think it should be a UN organisation that works with the reception of refugees. We always mention the World Food Programme, which often works with UNHCR in order for food to come in and for refugee camps to be built up. Afghanistan is a good example of the need for both these organisations. If we make sure there's food, and there's a rush, and if we make sure that refugee camps are built around Afghanistan, the situation can be stabilised, but hardly without it. We also often mention the World Health Organization and the FAO as basic UN organisations with which we will work. But there are over 30 different UN organisations, and we think that this flora has grown too big. There is too much duplication of work, which is why we think that Sweden should prioritise. The same applies to large funds, such as the GEF and the Green Climate Fund, which work with about the same things – also Great Green Wall. These funds have been aimed at creating green development, and that is very good. But you also get the feeling that they are double-working. It shouldn't have to be different. You get the feeling that it's more about raising money than focusing on what's important. We think that we should push for a debate against the UN, which says: Return to fewer organisations and gather together! Otherwise, there will be a great bureaucracy, and it will well know everyone who has worked with the UN. We also want, as other speakers, a greater proportion of aid to be bilateral, such as the large aid funds that are now working on planning forests in Africa, as I have mentioned before in this House. I think we're the world's best at it. We can do much more of this bilaterally. We want to suspend aid to organisations that do not have watertight shots against terrorism. There, for example, support to the Palestinian Authority has been a problem. You should not withdraw the support first, you should warn first. But something has to happen at some point. We want a return agreement for citizens from recipient countries who receive Swedish assistance if the citizens are in Sweden without a residence permit. We believe that this is a reasonable condition for Swedish aid. We want continued work with clearer objectives with external control of aid and not control only through those who work with it, because you get too biased. I have mentioned concentration on a selection of countries, as well as work through fewer international organisations and funds. I would also like to mention one thing that we have not talked about, and it is about city and country. It is a contradiction that is not only here in Sweden – here the issue is often up for debate – but the big cities in Africa make our Swedish problems look rather small. Hans Rosling, to mention him again, wrote in his book that when countries reach a certain level of prosperity, population growth decreases. Only then can increased national income at last actually help to make the average citizen better off. Unfortunately, we do not see these developments in much of Africa. Millions of cities grow up at a high pace. These are cities that are not environmentally sustainable, and this is happening on a scale that many in Sweden may not know. Africa already has 47 million cities. 36 of them are located south of the Sahara. Most of these cities were five or ten times smaller just a few decades ago. We Swedish democrats want to focus on smaller cities. We must find a counterweight to the big cities, because they are destroying the groundwater and the area around them. That is why we need to get something that prevents people from fleeing to the big cities, because they are time bombs in terms of both major refugee flows and, for example, pandemics. That is why we want to support industrial projects. Kenneth G. Forslund said earlier that in the 1970s we wanted revolution and that we now want audit. But in the 70's, we also engaged in large industrial projects in different countries. Bai Băng is often discussed, and it is a bit exciting given that Bai Băng was a paper project in the not at all democratic Vietnam. It shows that we have not always, even from the Social Democratic side, valued democracy as a basic condition. Bai Băng has worked until now. The tree plantings that were finally made to supply the factory, although in the wrong order, meant that Bai Băng has actually been able to exist for a very long time and that Vietnam today is the world's largest exporter of garden furniture, something that was not thought of at the time. It is clear, then, that large industrial projects are beneficial for both men and women and for general prosperity. Perhaps also for democracy, because these forest plantings are now distributed to farmers who manage them and have to make money out of them. Another example is Kotmale in Sri Lanka where we worked with a large power plant. I think we need to go back to working more on this type of project, because they create real prosperity. I also believe that the guarantee operations that Sida does not prioritise sufficiently can create real aid. Finally, I think that we need to ensure that the EU and Sweden open up more trade with poor countries so that they can get the right conditions and be lifted in real terms.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1126	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear Mats Nordberg and the description of the Swedish Democrats' development policy. There is clearly a common denominator. There are likely also things that separate us. I may not believe that the concentration of UN agencies into even larger bodies will lead to less bureaucracy. On the contrary, experience is that large organisations lead to even larger superstructures and more bureaucracy. In view of all the things you list you want to do, Mats Nordberg, where most of it is reasonable, I wonder why you want to do half as much of all that. Why do you want to spend only half a percent of Sweden's money on aid when it is obvious that you have ideas that you believe in as to what we can do for the aid money?
i-ExH2bj6Yjr2B6TtbwYzXHD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kenneth G. Forslund, for the well-founded question! I don't know where we want to go in the very long term. I think we want world-class aid. However, I would like to remind you that Sweden is in its very own world class in terms of aid. For 2022, before settling with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we have budgeted for 0.7% in aid, which is the UN recommendation. But it reaches almost no other countries than Sweden. If Sweden were to go down to 0.7%, as we have proposed for next year, Sweden would still be third or possibly fourth in terms of aid. The Swedish democrats are therefore questioning this a little. Sweden very much wants to go ahead. And I guess that's good. But we go very far ahead. We run ahead, and we don't look over our shoulder. The Swedish democrats do not believe – and I think there is historical evidence for that – that if Sweden alone goes ahead, then the others follow along. We don't see it. We see, as the questioner himself said, that you are 1 000 billion behind. Is that it? In some way, then, we must work to ensure that more countries work together and contribute. Sweden cannot always be far ahead.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1131	Madam President, I would like That's exactly how it is. Even before the pandemic, the global development budget took EUR 1 000 billion. If more countries did what Sweden did, that money would not be missing. Then we need to think about how to get more rich countries to spend more money. Is it the right signal, then, to send out that the country that many others have as an example in terms of the ambition for both how much money is spent and the practical implementation of quality, low administrative costs and keeping corruption out of sight, is reducing aid? What's the effect? Will there be more or less money overall for the development agenda? Unfortunately, I believe that there will be an even greater gap than that 1 000 billion. I have a brief comment to make on aid to Afghanistan and corruption there. Yes, Afghanistan is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. That is one of the causes of the whole situation in Afghanistan, with the violence and everything that is going on. Based on this knowledge, Sweden has chosen to engage in projects where there is less risk of corruption than in many other parts of what one can engage in in developmental matters. One is quite well aware that if one goes into large construction projects, road projects, dust projects and such, there is also a very high risk of corruption. If you take care of education and health care, as a very large part of Swedish aid goes to, it is significantly less risk of corruption. But how are we going to get more countries to give more? I do not believe in convincing them by reducing Swedish aid.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1136	Madam President, I would like The United States, which is usually the world's largest donor, has for many years criticized the UN for being over-bureaucratic and having too many different organisations doing the same thing. I believe that cooperation or a consensus with the United States could influence the UN to make that aid more effective. As I said, I also believe that we should make aid more bilateral. Then it will also be more effective. I am not sure that I share the questioner's opinion that Sweden is seen as an example in all situations. It is sometimes pointed out that Sweden does a little differently. The question whether what Sweden does really is right hangs in the air. We see the need for a clear position from Sweden on the need for the UN to be more effective. But we still want to support the core business – peace-keeping, providing food, finding refugee camps, helping with medicines and helping children with education. That's what we're gonna do. That is the most important way of setting an example.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1140	Madam President, I would like When we have the Minister for Development in the Chamber, I would like to take this opportunity to ask her a question. Over the years, I have raised the issue of UNRWA and the serious anti-Semitism and terrorist sedition at UNRWA schools. Only this year we could see that the terrorist organisation Hamas was allowed to register children at its summer camps at UNRWA schools. We have also seen that schoolbooks used this year in the schools of the Palestinian Authority, UNRWA schools, contain worse terrorist incitements than in previous years. Over the years, time and again, I have given concrete examples of this. The Swedish government has now entered into a new four-year strategic agreement with UNRWA and will contribute a total of SEK 2.1 billion to the organisation during 2022-2025. I therefore put a question to the Minister for Development and received an answer to it today. My question was whether, in the light of the problems I raised in the matter, she felt it was right to finance the organisation with an additional SEK 2.1 billion and whether it was intended to take any specific measures in view of the problems I had raised. The answer I received from the Minister for Development today was that: It is the government's view that the image that Björn Söder conveys of UNRWA is not correct. On the contrary, UNRWA plays an important role in combating extremism and anti-Semitism in a region characterised by a conflict that has now been going on for over 70 years. On what factual basis is the Minister building his position or statement that UNRWA plays an important role in countering extremism and anti-Semitism? What evidence does the Minister have of that claim? I give several concrete examples of the opposite. Madam President, I would like I would like a reply from the Minister for Development, now that she is in the Chamber today, on the basis of which she is building this statement.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1146	Madam President, I would like The EU has presented its work programme. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has reviewed the programme and reports the review in an opinion. The Left Party would have liked to have seen other priorities in the opinion. I therefore support the reservation of reasons. What we are essentially opposed to is the common foreign, security and defence policy, the organisation of the protection of the EU's external borders and the protection of the right to seek asylum, or rather not to be protected. We also see several areas where the work programme must be more active, such as sustainability work and gender equality. Nor do we agree with the positive view expressed in the report on the future conference. Representative democracy shall be based on elected representatives in national parliaments and not on a statistical sample of the population. The method of an EU conference has been tested in the past, but with no good results. Unlike what the opinion says, we do not believe that the conclusions of the conference should be regarded as representative of the citizens of Europe. The conclusions of the Conference cannot therefore be used to support any reforms. With regard to the EU's common foreign, security and defence policy, we are opposed to progress towards greater coordination of foreign policy within the EU. We must safeguard Sweden's ability to conduct an independent foreign policy and the ability to decide on our own when and with which countries we want to cooperate to meet the major international challenges of our time. Contrary to the opinion and the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we do not look forward to developing cooperation between NATO and the EU through a new joint declaration. Sweden's defence is already too closely linked to NATO, and it must be reduced, not increased. Part of this link consists of Sweden's support for the EU's defence building. This reduces our ability to be a strong voice for peace and disarmament both in Europe and in the world, because we are taking part in the actions of former colonial powers with different spheres of interest and are thus linked by the back door to both nuclear powers and NATO. The Left Party is also opposed to the deepening of defence cooperation within the strategic compass. The Swedish freedom of alliance must be safeguarded, and the kind of security and defence policy cooperation that the strategic compass entails hampers the freedom of alliance. The Left Party believes that defence cooperation within the EU should not be deepened and that Parliament should clearly oppose any proposals that lead in this direction. This applies not least to the construction of the Defence Union, which the military industrial complex lobbyists are successfully pushing towards the EU institutions. The militarisation of the EU is another step away from the Swedish military alliance freedom. In addition, it takes place without a general and popular debate. As regards the protection of the EU's external borders, we share the opinion's criticism of the Belarus regime and its ruthless exploitation of migrants. Unfortunately, however, the EU's response to the situation at the border with Poland is yet another failure in respect of the right to asylum. Parliament must clearly emphasise the right to seek asylum and condemn the fact that asylum seekers are hindered by so-called pushbacks, which force asylum seekers back across the border without giving them the chance to apply for asylum. This is contrary, among other things, to the Council of Europe's Convention on Human Rights. Both the EU Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex and individual Member States have been accused of using pushbacks both in the Mediterranean and on the border with Belarus. Madam President, I would like The EU's three decision-making parties decided to set the EU's sustainability target for a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, despite the fact that Parliament had initially proposed 60% and that many votes, including the Left Party, considered 70% to be a minimum. The Swedish negotiations in the European Council focused on at least 55% for tactical reasons and felt that the target would be at least higher. Now we see how the target is 55% and not a single percentage point, or per mille point, higher. We have the Fit for 55 with its measures, and the Commission's action programme is based on the 55 % reduction target, although we know that it is not enough. Greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by more if we are to stop the warming of the earth and achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Here, of course, it is also distressing that Sweden has to repeat its application for funds from the recovery fund. The budget passed by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats with passive support from the Center and Liberals in the Riksdag deletes several of the climate initiatives included in our application. We in the Left Party have been critical of the fact that the application does not contain any new and additional bets, and now there are not even the old bets left. Sweden must also be better able to do so. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention equality and democracy. We know that there are Member States where both democracy and equality are being reduced. These are countries that are backing into the future. These are countries where politics takes control of the media and courts. And it is countries that remove the right to free abortion, ban information on LGBTQ issues or introduce LGBTQ-free zones. The Commission addresses some of these issues in its action programme but not enough. I agree with the statement by the Committee on Foreign Affairs that there should be no doubt that discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity is contrary to the fundamental values of the European Union, on which there is no room for compromise.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1158	Madam President, I would like In its work programme, the Commission sets out its policy priorities for the coming year and the legislative and other initiatives it intends to present and implement. It is good that the Commission's work programme attaches great importance to respect for the principles of the rule of law and the fundamental values of the European Union and shows its determination to maintain the pace of reform of the green and digital transition. The implementation of the political guidelines of the President of the Commission forms the basis of the European Commission's annual work programme. The political guidelines of the President of the Commission are grouped under six main headings. I am going to mention four things that I think are important to highlight in particular and one that I want to clarify our position on. Firstly, the Commission will follow up on the action plan for the European Pillar of Social Rights. The Commission will also launch an initiative within the European Year of Youth to facilitate the acquisition of work experience abroad by disadvantaged young people who do not work or study. In addition, strategies are to be adopted to strengthen the position of European universities and to promote sustainable care through all stages of life. This is good because young people are clearly the future of Europe. Many of today's young generations who have graduated from upper secondary school, higher education and university education in the last two years have come out on a labour market that is very tough in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. The most important job in a person's life is the first job. It is with the first job in the back that a young person can move forward on the labour market and in his career. That is why the Commission's commitment to young people is so important. Secondly, the Commission emphasises its efforts to maintain respect for the principles of the rule of law and the primacy of EU law by all available means. The Commission shall also propose legislation to ensure the freedom and diversity of the media in the Member States. The Commission will also propose measures to combat violence against women and to prevent and combat practices that are harmful to women and girls. This is crucial for the continued existence of the whole of Europe. The EU is making demands on countries that are to be allowed to apply for membership of the Union. The EU is making demands on countries that have applied for membership in order to allow them to start negotiating their membership. In the negotiations with candidate countries, the EU calls for countries to fulfil various things in order to become members of the EU. It is a requirement for harmonisation of rules, freedom of expression, legal certainty and a wide range of other requirements that underpin the functioning of the EU as a whole. The EU is based on the fact that the Member States are democratic and legally secure countries. These requirements cannot only be imposed on one country on the road to EU membership. There must also be demands on all the countries that are members of the European Union. It is not acceptable to violate the fundamental principles of the European Union once a country is a member of the European Union. That is why the European Commission's work on upholding the EU's fundamental principles is absolutely necessary. Thirdly, action is guided by the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, but also by following up previous action plans for zero emissions of pollutants into the environment and the circular economy. This is important because the EU is one of the world's largest economies but also one of the world's largest emitters. If we in the EU can improve the climate, it will have a major and positive impact on the global climate as a whole. Climate change affects all of humanity. We all need to change our way of life and fast. In a fair climate transition, there are great opportunities for new green jobs and better health for people and for Sweden to take a global leading role. Climate change will only succeed if it has popular support, and that is why it is important to have a fair climate transition. A Social Democratic climate policy always includes a strategy for economic and social development where climate, gender equality and employment objectives go hand in hand. Finally, fourthly and perhaps most important of all: the European Union's recovery work. The 2022 Work Programme will show determination in a recovery effort that drives the EU forward, accelerates the dual green and digital transition and builds a fair, more resilient and cohesive society in line with Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement. The work programme is intended to take the EU further in the post-pandemic recovery and accelerate the green and digital social transition. The goal is to build a fair, more resilient and cohesive society in line with the sustainability and climate goals of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement. A particular focus is placed on the young generation, including through the European Year of Youth 2022 and a forthcoming action plan for young people in the EU's external action. The Commission notes that recovery efforts, which included 2 326 individual actions by the Commission and now focus on the implementation of support programmes under the EU's Multiannual Financial Framework and the Special Recovery Instrument, are already having an impact. However, the Commission highlights the need to implement all the measures taken and to stimulate further public and private investment and reforms in order to succeed in the green and digital transition. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1173	Madam President, I would like We are now discussing the European Commission's work programme. A great deal can be said about that, but that is not enough time for this debate. You can relate to the work programme as when it starts and when it ends and a reconciliation in the middle of where we are now. But there is also a great deal to be said about what the Commission's work programme should focus on in 2022. The EU is a cooperation for democracies where the principles of the rule of law must be respected throughout the EU. This is crucial for the EU to be able to give credible impetus to human rights and freedoms in its foreign policy. What, then, should the EU focus on? In the short term, it is a question of tackling the aftermath of Brexit, the challenges to the Union's fundamental values and the growing need to protect the EU's borders. In the longer term, it is about increased competition from Asia and the US that the EU must resist, the global energy transition, which is currently going like that, and linked to it, the climate challenges. Madam President, I would like At a time when the related problems devour all the focus, we must focus on the global challenges facing the world for future generations. It is about ensuring food security and having health care that works all over the world. We must also have effective communication, both digital and physical. Accessibility and speed become key factors when the importance of the site decreases in favour of constant presence. It is also about energy. Everything modern man does requires and generates energy. The energy of the future must be accessible, efficient, clean and safe for all and affordable. That is certainly not the case today, 8 December. Madam President, I would like Addressing these challenging future issues requires the EU to be the best at the absolute most important competitive factor: knowledge. Knowledge and education are the main ingredients and prerequisites for development, growth and thus the fight against poverty. Only with knowledge and competence can we make our ambitions a reality. Knowledge initiatives lead to increased competitiveness, not least investment in the opportunities of artificial intelligence. With more free trade and democracy, there is a great guarantee that growth will be exchanged. On all these points, Europe needs to take the takpin, for our own sake but also for the sake of the world. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that these global challenges should primarily be met by deepening transatlantic cooperation between the EU and the US, which, based on the current world order, is both logical and effective and something the EUlommission should take very seriously. The UK, Norway and the US should have a special position given these countries' important contribution to Europe's security, not least in terms of hybrid threats, strategic communication and cyber security. The EU must have the ability to put pressure also on the Russian regime to change its foreign policy action. It is characterised by ruthlessness and violation of fundamental principles of international law. Much of the security policy deteriorated the situation in our neighbourhood, not least in Belarus and Ukraine, stems from Russian aggression towards these countries. The increasing tension at Ukraine's border is as worrying as is symptomatic. With propaganda, corruption and hybrid warfare, Russia has sought to destabilise and stop countries that have themselves chosen to move closer to the EU. It can never be acceptable to the EU, its Member States or the European Commission. It is also of the utmost importance that the EU has a common attitude towards China, preferably consistent with like-minded countries such as Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. China's political development and action towards the outside world are characterised by violations of human rights and international law and deviated from international commitments. China's action in Europe shows a tangible ambition to divide the EU Member States through economic pressure. If individual Member States become increasingly dependent on China and its investments, there is a risk that it will be more difficult to agree on EU joint action. We've seen this before and don't want to see it again. Climate is a global concern, and the EU is the most important international arena for Sweden's climate cooperation. The Moderates believe that Sweden should work with its credibility on aid issues to ensure that the EU prioritises climate aid in the common development policy. Madam President, I would like Right now, Sweden and Europe are freezing. Demand for electricity will increase dramatically as industries and transport are electrified. The EU aims at 32% of its energy supply coming from renewable sources by 2030. We mean we're too low. Here the European Commission needs to speed up its development. Sweden and Europe should not have to freeze. What the EU should do more is focus on deepening the internal market and pushing for more prosperous free trade. This is what creates the conditions for what we in the European Union will have for capacity in the future. Democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are unfortunately subject to exceptions in parts of the Union. A rule of law with functioning human rights principles takes a long time to build but can quickly be demolished. When the growing secrecy of some countries leads to restrictions on democracy and freedom of expression, it is indeed a European tragedy. Therefore, the EU must respond to any indication that these values are being loosened. Countries that violate these values and principles should feel reactions. Article 7, which no one thought would need to be used, may prove to be the most important tool of the liberal and trade-liberal Union. Madam President, I would like Reconciliation and evaluation of the Commission's work programme must be seen from a broader perspective, taking into account the global challenges. This must also be the case with regard to the internal life of the European Union. In this context, the conference on the future of the European Union, which has been hit by the big drum, cannot go uncommented. Big headlines and luxuriant and airy ambitions are just the first name of what preceded this future conference. From the first meeting in June until today, little has happened. The governance of the conference leaves much to be desired in form and content. The representativeness was raised by my colleague from the Left Party in a previous speech, and that is just to be agreed. Next week's plenary session will be cancelled, partly because of the Corona infection. But a major reason is, in fact, a weak governance of the whole project, as several countries point out. What we Moderates feared and flagged early seems to lead to an organizational and substantive fiasco. The Commission must address this. The Commission must be held responsible for this. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I support the committee's view that the opinion should be added to the document.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1202	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a stronger total defence. The budget report of the Committee on Defence which we are debating today and which is based on an agreement between the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats will contribute to this development. It is also important because we are in a very serious security policy situation here and now. Russia is now again carrying out major troop mobilizations along Ukraine's border. We have indications that up to 100 000 Russian soldiers are in the immediate vicinity of Ukraine. US Secretary of State Antony Antony warned last week about the risk of a large-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine at the beginning of next year. There is every reason, Madam President, to take the American warnings very seriously. Ukraine, as you know, is only 700 km from Sweden's border, and if a conflict or war breaks out in the immediate vicinity of Sweden, we will inevitably be affected by it. Madam President, I would like We therefore need a stronger total defence that can be war-resisting and that can contribute to stability and security in the neighbourhood together with our international partners. That capacity would be significantly stronger and more credible if we were also full members of NATO and included in the organisation's common defence planning. I also think that the discussion on what possible support the West is willing to give to Ukraine is an important reminder of the difference between membership and partnership to the defence alliance. Partner countries are supported by economic and political means. Members are defended by any means possible. Madam President, I would like In the light of the deteriorating external security situation in both the long and short term, it is good that for the first time the Committee on Defence has ever adopted a budget report with a stated objective of Sweden moving towards defence expenditure equivalent to 2% of GDP. It sends a signal to our surrounding world about our will and ability to build a stronger total defence in the long term and economically sustainable. Basically, five out of eight parties in this House actually support this view. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are now also committed to increasing defence funding even after 2025, with primarily at least 5 billion in 2026 and another 5 billion in 2027. It will be necessary to implement the proposal of the Defence Committee as a whole, but also to increase the cost of strategic material projects, not least in the underwater area. We have warned against this during the defence negotiations, but it has now also been revealed. But it will also have to take economic heights to meet accelerating technological developments in areas such as autonomous systems and drones, decision support through artificial intelligence and space-based systems. These areas will have a profound impact on the future battlefield over the next decade. There is now, I would remind you, a fairly wide-ranging debate in quite a few countries on how technological developments will also affect defence policy. I believe that we will need to have a discussion in Swedish defence policy that is linked to technological developments with a view to the forthcoming defence decision. Madam President, we have taken a long-term defence decision based on a ten-year perspective. I think it is important that we have a forward-looking defence decision that can be gradually adapted to the rapid technological developments that we will see over the next decade. Madam President, I would like A united defence committee is also saying that the defence budget is now to reintroduce object frames for the combat aircraft system and the underwater area. I find it remarkable that the government handed over a budget in which these object frames were not included. This was a central part of the defence agreement that formed the basis for the defence decision that we took on 15 December last year. Basically, this is all about the need to keep track of the defence economy, and the disaggregated economy must be sufficient economy even when it comes to strategic material projects. There is reason, Madam President, to be concerned about the cost increases that have come to the fore over the past year. I'm thinking of cost increases linked to the A26. I am thinking of the delays and upsurges linked to Artemis, the next signal reconnaissance vessel that we will join. It has operational consequences. But, Madam President, it is also important that this report actually opens up more money for the Coast Guard. This report brings a total of 70 million, or 45 million extra. The Coast Guard has been given enhanced tasks linked to law enforcement and also to the EU's common border surveillance. When new data are added to the Coast Guard, it is reasonable that they also receive increased financial resources. There must also be a balance between objectives and means for the operation of the Coast Guard. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats have systematically worked to strengthen border protection and law enforcement in this budget. That's one reason we're giving more money to the police, the Customs and the Coast Guard. I think that the events of the last few days linked to the cargo ship that started to burn outside Vinga are a reminder of the serious situation that the Coast Guard is in. We were informed that the Coast Guard vessel Poseidon did not leave the dock for four hours due to a shortage of personnel. I would also like to remind you that the Director-General of the Coast Guard, Therese Mattsson, has repeatedly alerted the serious financial situation of the Coast Guard. It has been pointed out that one cannot fulfill one's mission. I therefore think it is a good thing that economic space is now being created to employ about 100 more coastal guards over time to strengthen operational activities. I would also like to extend warm thanks to all those who have been involved in the extinguishing of the fire on the cargo ship. It has been a very difficult and demanding process. I understand that Norway will now support us in this work. I think that is important, and of course we appreciate that. Madam President, I would like Let me just conclude by saying something about the challenges that exist in the area of cybersecurity. This is something we have been working on in committee this autumn. Among other things, we arranged a hearing where we invited the authorities to work with the new cybersecurity centre. It is also involved in the budget. I note that Sweden has serious problems in the area of cybersecurity. In fact, I do not think the government is doing its job there. One reason for this is that we have a cybersecurity centre that is greatly delayed. I note that all other Nordic countries actually have the operational cyber security centres in place. In Sweden, this centre will not be fully operational until 2023. We have seven authorities working on this, but no one has a leading responsibility. This means agreeing on everything from staff manuals to pay systems and recruitment. I am critical that the government has not appointed a main authority to hold this together. In addition, we can see that when it comes to perhaps the most important issue linked to cyber security, it has barely come out of the starting blocks, and it is an effective collaboration with the business community. Madam President, I would like With this, I am in favour of reservation number 2, which we have together with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1223	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Pål, for a very fine introductory speech on this important issue. I agree with much of what Mr Pål said and with the commitment to a stronger total defence, with which Mr Pål began his speech. Not least, I think that what is the result of the decision that has now been made about the object framework is extremely important – that the Coast Guard is added more money. It's extremely important. I and the Center Party also share the target picture when it comes to 2% of GDP for defence issues in 2030, in line with the work of the Defence Committee. What is interesting and I would like to ask Pål Jonson a question about the fact that the Moderates in their individual draft budget, both this year and for this year, have exercised an extra amount of SEK 30 million to the Defence Radio Institute. This has also been done by the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. It's the same amount. Now that these parties, as Pål Jonson reports, have written themselves together and got through their proposal on the economy here in Parliament, my natural question is: Now that you agree on these reinforcements of appropriations, why do they not come into the final proposal when you have finished negotiating? For me, it will be a receipt of what happens in practice when you do joint considerations.
i-9CHZ1ssUCY1UU7v1FRp2Ea	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Bäckström, for the question! I'd like to return the praise a little. I welcome your proposal linked to using the Haveri Commission to strengthen cyber security work. It's actually something we've been looking at and copying. I also think you have good writings on the further development of civil defence. You allocate 200 million more to the municipalities there, and that is basically good. We will come back in the spring when we discuss civilian preparedness. We have similar proposals linked to how to look at the funding of civil defence, because I believe that there is a need for a move. With regard to the specific issue of the Defence Radio Institution, it is no secret that it is an activity that is close to our heart, perhaps a little unlike the Center Party, which was critical of the new direction of the FRA's international activities. I think that is a pity, because the Center has presented many good proposals on cybersecurity. Unfortunately, this falls if the FRA has not been fully involved. When it comes to the elections and why we are not using the 30 million now, there is a specific reason for this. The idea was that the FRA would be given the leading responsibility for the cybersecurity centre, but we will not be able to do that unless we own the regulatory letter. Then we thought it wiser to wait for the reform until next autumn, when we hopefully also own the Government Office. So that reform was linked to the extra money for the FRA and that we could get a head of the cybersecurity centre. It was the criticism that you had of the government, that you don't have a principal. Then it is more effective to also own the Government Office when you implement it.
i-SdtyxthXS39wuDJmNyzMMD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson, for the answer! When you submit a draft budget from an individual party, the aim is to make it possible to implement it. It is clear that, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, you have proposed 30 million. However, it has taken heights because this is important. Otherwise, one can think about how the other proposals stand in relation to realism when things get sharp. Obviously it was only the Coast Guard that took place in the final negotiation between the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. This is what we are seeing for next year's activities and also taking us with us for future debates on the economic direction.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1231	Madam President, I would like What I think is important in principle is that there is a budget report that takes up the 2% target. I believe that we are fundamentally in agreement there. I think it is a good signal and, in principle, important that, for the first time, the Committee on Defence has a budget report with the explicit objective. If there is anyone who has pushed for the need for more money for defence intelligence, it is the Moderates. It was a requirement for us to conclude the agreement on the economy and the direction up to 2025, so I really think we have worked for it. It is not a comprehensive draft state budget; it is 20 out of 1 200 billion. We are honest and say this. We are introducing a number of important priorities, not least when it comes to increased resources for law enforcement, which is the most acute social problem that Sweden has today.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1234	Madam President, I would like I have said this before: when I became a defence policy and came to the Committee on Defence, I quickly became aware of how much focus lay on the details. There are probably many committee members who could be awakened in the middle of the night and from memory rumble the entire inventory calendar of the Armed Forces' equipment. Of course, the devil often sits in the details, but one must not forget the whole – to see the big features in the perspective and paint with the wide brush. Swedish defence policy is something much larger than Gripen aircraft and submarines. This is something much greater than the fact that we are now finally reactivating universal military service. This is a part of Sweden's security and foreign policy. It is about diplomacy, politics, dialogue, trade and our relations with the world around us. It is about preventing threats and risks. And ultimately, which I think we sometimes need to remember as defence policy, it is a question of maintaining peace. Defence policy and what we work with in the Defence Committee is somehow the ultimate insurance – the defender of cargo resort. When decency is not enough, the Armed Forces are there. In the time in which we live, we have a broader concept of security, which is different from what it was just a few years ago. States and the military threat have changed. We have military and non-military threats and we have government and non-governmental threats. In this security policy situation, we also know that the situation has deteriorated over time and been challenged in our neighbourhood. We saw it in 2008 in Georgia. We saw it in 2014 with the illegal annexation of Crimea in Ukraine. We see hybrid warfare on the border between Belarus and Poland. We see this in the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. We see extensive and growing practice activities. In this time of great geopolitical, technological and economic shifts, Sweden needs to be equipped. Society's capacity to deal with crises should be strong both in peacetime and in war. Those who know me know that I represent Skåne and Landskrona. Those who know me well also know that I rarely miss a chance to talk about my municipality and my place of residence. For in 1658 the peace was made in Roskilde. Then Skåne became Swedish. What many do not know is that part of Skåne did not become Swedish at that time, and it was the island of Ven. Ven belongs to Landskrona municipality. In fact, it was only two years later, at the peace in Copenhagen, that Ven became Swedish. When I became a defence policy, there were many in my vicinity who rallied a little bit over that I now had the chance to see that we get air defence on the island of Ven. Certainly, the story is such that when Ven became Swedish, the plan was to occupy this island with 2,000 men and to have artillery. But these plans stopped at the drawing table, and there is reason to let the plans for antiaircraft on Ven also stay on the drawing table. But my point is that even though the uncertainty is not so great that we are going to discuss my municipality, the security policy situation has changed over time, which meant that the direction of defence policy in Sweden was reversed with the turn of the Social Democratic government in 2014. We are now seeing a historic rearmament that began at that time. That direction is fixed. The defence was closed in 2014 for SEK 45 billion. Up to 2025 it has increased by 85 percent. For the years 2021 – 2025 we have increased the financial appropriations by 40 per cent. We now see the biggest and strongest investments in the Swedish Armed Forces since the 1950s. In connection with the budget discussion here in the Swedish Parliament, this focus continues, of course. At the same time, I must admit that, now that we are spending so much money on defence, there are also challenges. We can identify them in human resources, in infrastructure investments and in cost-effectiveness. Reforms are not the same as implementation. Therefore, there is reason to light up the control station that we have now set ourselves to implement in 2023 and which is very important. Then we can evaluate and see whether the development of costs is in phase and whether we are able to absorb the major financial contributions that the defence is now finally receiving. Madam President, I would like I note that the old idea of defence as a special interest is cleaned out. The concept of total defence is established, where the crisis preparedness principle no longer applies. Now it's about creating resources and the ability to endure in time at low levels instead of quickly restoring the situation to normal levels as soon as we can. Peoples' attachment and defence will are at the heart of this work. Now we continue methodically and purposefully to maintain peace, defend freedom and protect our country Sweden and the Swedish model. Since the principle is such that we have a coherent budgetary process, I have no request and would simply like to record on the Minutes that I support the special opinion of the Social Democrats.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1247	Madam President, I would like Niklas Karlsson speaks, as the local patriot he is, for a long time well about Landskrona. It honors him. I have this trait in me. I have read the special opinion of the Social Democrats which mentions the concept of defence on one and a half pages, I believe. There is a lot of talk about neoliberal society, deregulation and so on, and there is lament at the lack of crisis management. The outgoing Home Secretary Mikael Damberg said that if we had a strong civil defence, we would have been better equipped to deal with the pandemic. I think there's something in it. At the same time, we can note that other Nordic countries, such as Norway and Denmark, had a functioning civil defence. They have also done better during the pandemic, especially initially. It is not possible to get away from the fact that, for example, there are eleven dead Swedes on a dead Norwegian. I think it is important to have structures linked to civil defence. We started work on civil defense. We made a decision on that in 2015. It has now been six years. Unfortunately, this work has gone very slowly. We have made some progress when it comes to war placement, secure communications and exercises. But, among others, the outgoing Director-General of MSB warned that we are falling short of civil and military defence. In fact, I take it that the government did not act quickly and forcefully, but shift things into investigations and end up in a long line. For example, the security of supply investigation should not be completed until 2023. Barbro Holmberg's investigation will not be implemented until 2023, even though it consisted of nearly 600 pages. Why does the government put civil defence issues on a long bench, Niklas Karlsson?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1252	Madam President, I would like Questions to the government should of course be answered by the government. But if Pål Jonson asks me as a social democrat, who is behind much of what the government delivers to Parliament, the answer is that it will be strange if we keep a high tempo if we run in the wrong direction. The Institute of Investigation should not be despised. We'll reduce it even less. Pål Jonson, who has experience from the Government Office together with Mikael Odenberg as Minister of Defence, knows the value of investigations. We should not, therefore, reduce this, but we must continue to do so. Pål Jonson, we actually agree on a lot. Many times when there are political conflicts, they are therefore artificial. However, when it comes to the view of civil defence, it is almost gone if you compare it with military defence. And we fully agree that civil defence needs to be upgraded in order for us to have a total defence that goes hand in hand. Civil defence is also supporting military capabilities. Much needs to be done. At the same time as we conduct investigations and point out the direction for which way we should go, it is about ensuring that we organize ourselves properly, much like in Barbro Holmberg's investigation. It is also a question of discussing funding. There, together with some other parties, we have said that, in order to finance current defence efforts, we are prepared to introduce a risk tax. It is reasonable for the Moderates to take part in such discussions in order for us to be prepared to finance the efforts needed in the future. It will not take care of itself, and it will not be possible to just organize it away. It is also about the fact that it is clear who is doing what at what time. Here we know that industry is often interested in participating and that it only wants these missions delivered. These talks are continuing, and of course they need to land as soon as possible. I think we are going to land this, and I think it will be fine. However, I would also like to point out that it will take time and that we will also have to discuss how this is to be financed.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1259	Madam President, I would like I share the view that organisational issues are important. The organisational issues in the Government Office are also important. We had a defence committee, which Niklas Karlsson was involved in, and which presented the report Resistance. It spoke of the importance of re-establishing a total defence ministry precisely so as not to go out of step between civil defence and military defence. That report came in 2017. And the defense committee's prognosis has really come to a complete conclusion. Now, unfortunately, we have a total defense where the civilian defense is limping behind. Niklas Karlsson's party chairman, Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, could have addressed this in the government declaration. But she chose not to restore total defense. The second concerns Barbro Holmberg's investigation. Then we are talking about effective governance and control of the economy. Will the government present a new total defense inspection in line with the January defence agreement from Folk och Försvar i Sälen? I know it has been promised in the past.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1262	Madam President, I would like I'll admit that I'm a little fond of the idea of a total defence department and that could be a good thing. I do not own that question, and it does not own the Swedish Parliament. It is the head of government who organises his government office as he or she wishes. I guess you'll have to answer that question from there. Even if we don't organise it as a total defence ministry, the operation still works. But it could probably be something better, just as the Defense Committee puts it. I'd still like to light something up. Earlier today, we had a debate on investment in the judiciary. Then a party partner told Pål Jonson that the important thing is not what is said but what is accomplished. We can stand here and discuss a lot about what to do and how it could be done differently. I think that over the last seven years, the results we have achieved are a light. We Social Democrats ensure that we make historic efforts to strengthen both military and civil defence, and we will continue to do so.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1266	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 so that it becomes clear that we are behind it. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. Our democratic values and our open democracy are something we can all feel proud of. That is very much something worth defending. A well-designed and modern defence is a guarantee of continued sovereignty, freedom, democracy and prosperity. Our goal is that the defence should have a war-resisting defence capability with the capacity to face foreign aggressions but also be able to assist civil society in times of crisis or unrest. Therefore, the defence of Sweden has long been one of the core issues of Sweden's democrats. But for many years this was not what the discussions in Swedish politics looked like. Rather, the defence of several parties was seen as too costly. But is the defense really expensive? Since the fateful defence decision in 1996, when it was decided that the defence would be reduced to evolve if necessary and move from invasion defence to adaptation defence, the defence budget has been reduced from 2.2 percent of GDP to less than half – 1 percent in 2017 and 2018. I was concerned about this development back in the '90s, when discussions began on the reductions in defence. For it is very fast to dismantle a defence, but building it takes infinitely longer. It is simply not possible to build a defence when it is needed, because then it is already too late. Therefore, a defence must be in place already in peacetime, and it must cost. Since a united defence committee presented its final report in June 2019, for the first time since the Cold War days, there has again been a broad political consensus in the Swedish parliament on the need for increased funding for total defence. It is welcome that several parties now want to allocate more resources to defence in their budgets. However, we see the Defence Committee's proposal as a basis. The defence needs to be equipped to such a level that it can defend the whole of Sweden against an armed attack by a qualified opponent and provide support to civil society under severe pressure, crises and wars. However, one must not be overly optimistic in assessing what it costs to rebuild the defense. A lot can happen along the way. We are already seeing that some of the material projects decided upon are subject to increased costs. Increasing personnel costs can also be predicted, as there is a need to strengthen wages and review different remuneration systems. It goes without saying that the objectives will not be achieved unless the defence is compensated for rising costs. A certain amount of flexibility is needed in order to meet economic deviations. Parliament needs to take height and plan for future cost increases. Madam President, I would like At the moment, the defence is in a phase of construction and, as I have said, all parties devote more money to the defence than in previous years. Parliament's goal is for the defence budget to be 1.5 per cent of GDP in 2025. We support this objective but believe that in the long term it should be increased even more in order to reach 2% of GDP by 2030 and that more money may have to be spent on the way there. In this context, it may be worth mentioning the recent Russian exercise Zapad 2021. According to the Russian authorities, the exercise involved 200,000 people and was carried out together with Belarus' military. Agreements on international transparency were circumvented in larger exercises by dividing the exercise into several smaller parts. The exercise led to the Swedish Armed Forces carrying out emergency control, and the preparedness on Gotland was increased by sending reinforcements there. The conclusion after Zapad 2021 is that Russia continues to equip for war in Europe. At present, there is also a hybrid war between the EU and, in particular, Belarus, which is in the Union with Russia. The crisis on the EU-Belarus border has been going on for months, and it is still a very tense situation. At the same time, Russia is clear that it does not hesitate to threaten nuclear-capable weapons systems and has carried out strategic bomb flights over Belarus. Russia has also taken several measures on the border with Ukraine, and the build-up of force has caused NATO to issue sharp warnings of the risk of military conflict. With such clouds of concern in our vicinity, it is very clear that we urgently need to strengthen our defence. Madam President, I would like One of the defence and security policy issues that the Swedish Democrats have been pursuing in recent times is the issue of enhanced defence cooperation with Finland and the eventual conclusion of a defence association. We believe that such a step would promote Swedish and Finnish defence capabilities in a significant way, as it would mean a very high threshold effect for a possible attacker. Deeper defence cooperation with Finland would allow Sweden to remain outside the major military alliances while at the same time developing stronger defence in cooperation with our closest and most natural partner in the field of defence. Madam President, I would like The advantages of NATO membership can be attractive. It may seem to create a security that is worth considering. At the same time, however, we should be aware that NATO membership is also binding. A Swedish NATO membership would mean that we risk being drawn into military conflicts that we really want to stay out of for various reasons. We welcome the current cooperation with NATO but believe that it would have too many negative consequences for Sweden to become a member of NATO at the moment. Madam President, I would like A defence is not built solely by personnel within the Swedish Armed Forces. The military defence cannot function without a civil defence. Civil defence is also expected to protect the civilian population both in war and in peace. We also need to be prepared for social crises of various kinds – preparedness in the form of routines, personnel and supplies. This became clear not least during the ongoing pandemic. Deliveries that had previously been routine were delayed as needs grew rapidly globally, and the shortage soon became large in many areas. During the pandemic, the issue of emergency storage has been very much raised in relation to healthcare equipment, but it is also linked to other sectors. Sweden once had extensive emergency stocks of various key goods, which unfortunately was phased out gradually from the 1990s onwards. Stocks of food, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and fuels, for example, were intended to make Sweden less vulnerable to prolonged periods of isolation. With the pandemic, it became clear that Sweden did not have sufficient supplies of many of these goods. But it is not enough to be prepared in the public sphere. Support must also be given to private operators to keep stocks that last longer than they do today. In addition to stocks of food and medical supplies, Sweden should build supplies of inputs such as seeds, agrochemicals and fuel to withstand a longer period of isolation than we can handle today. Recently, the Swedish Food Administration announced that a 25% loss of food intake would have major consequences, especially for pregnant, young children, the elderly and the sick. During a longer period of increased preparedness and with greater loss of food supplies, the Swedes risk facing starvation. This places further emphasis on the importance of both emergency stocks and the degree of self-sufficiency. There is still a great deal to be done in this area.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1295	Madam President, I would like There are many important aspects highlighted in Per Söderlund's speech. I have not been here for so long; I have only been there for the last seven years and have taken note of what the representatives of the Swedish Democrats have highlighted in the budget debates for the next year's activities and the years after, also in the defence decisions. Sometimes we have been on the verge of wishing that we representatives of the other parties come forward and apologize for various measures taken in connection with structural changes in the 1990s within the Swedish Armed Forces. It has built up an expectation in me that the day the Swedish Democrats are involved in making up for the economy of Sweden's public finances for the coming years, then there should be significant differences in the appropriations for total defence. When I compare the total deviation in the Swedish Democrats' budget motion for next year, I see that there are 2 933 000 000 more than the government proposed. Of this money, 45 million to the Coast Guard are included in the decision. In other areas it is not included. Money for unit operations, acquisition of equipment and facilities, FRA– we can proceed in area by area. What does this mean in practice for how the Swedish Democrats will view defence issues in the future? It won't be delivered when you have the chance.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1301	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the questions. It is true that the common budget is lower than the one we had originally proposed, and this can be seen in different ways. The budget that we have in common with M and KD has been negotiated, and the parties have had different pieces that they wanted to highlight. Now, as we can also read in several of the specific opinions in the report, a budget must be seen as a whole. In this budget, we have invested very hard in additional funds for the judiciary, higher pensions and reduced taxes on fuel. On the whole, it is a very good budget, I would say. It is very strong, and I am delighted that it is also very good for the countryside. Our attitude towards defence has certainly not changed. The target of 2% of GDP for the defence budget in 2030 remains. Now this is also stated by the committee, which we think is very nice. I certainly do not think that this is a failure. Of course, it is – I hope – that these negotiations will continue and that we will review these figures even more later. Right now, these are – among other things the things I have just mentioned – the priorities that have been made jointly by all parties.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1306	Madam President, I would like Then it is only to note that not one crown of all the money that the Swedish Democrats individually have proposed came into the final negotiation for the defence activities for next year. Not a single extra crown! In view of the rhetoric that is often used, this deserves to be followed up. It's about delivering on what you promise and on what you in the speaker's chair say you should do. Here it is very clear that this is an extremely large deviation from the Swedish Democrats' own motion when it comes to defence expenditure and how the outcome was after the Swedish Democrats negotiated with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1308	Madam President, I would like I would not say that not a single crown is involved, because we at least have an investment in the Coast Guard that was not included in the government's proposal. At least there is an improvement on the original proposal in the proposal. We will, once again, continue to pursue our policy in this area. We will continue to work to ensure that money is distributed to the things that we believe are needed in the defence. In this particular situation, we have, as I have said, jointly made priorities that are urgent in order to correct problems in society, for example, that there is quite a lot of pushing on Sweden's streets compared to what it has been like in the past. I am very pleased that we have spent that money in this area and made a substantial effort on the security of our citizens.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1311	Madam President, I would like There is a lot that a Swedish Democrat and a Social Democrat can argue about, I suspect. However, I am not here to fight, but to ask the Swedish Democrats and Per Söderlund to explain themselves, because I do not really understand. This may of course be because of me, but then I hope that Per Söderlund and the Swedish Democrats have a good answer. The Swedish democrats have a very strange attitude – they say very strongly against NATO membership, but at the same time they can think of a NATO option. I don't really understand that. They say: We can probably imagine having an option – if we change our mind, Sweden will be able to join NATO. But we certainly do not want to, because NATO is not our thing. We don't believe it. We believe that Sweden should build defence capabilities in other ways – possibly in a defence alliance with Finland, but no more. I don't understand that logic. Anyone who is somewhat conspiratory can of course think that this is some kind of party-tactical game from the Swedish Democrats and that it is basically about approaching some of the bourgeois parties and making some concessions in order to create a warmth between these parties. Anyone who is a bit conspiratory is asking: What is the price for the Swedish Democrats? What price are you prepared to pay to cooperate with some of the former alliance parties?
i-59fwNckYbM9spu8MedevLv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Karlsson, for the questions! This is a very controversial issue even internally in our party. It has been misunderstood many times, including by our constituents, so I thank you for the opportunity to clarify our position on this issue. The NATO option has been adopted by Finland from the beginning. It is part of their security policy picture. If Sweden is to have a defence cooperation with Finland, it is good if we have the same attitude towards a NATO option. I can reassure Mr Karlsson that Sweden will not join NATO hips as happy. We believe that such a decision should be preceded by a referendum, and it should certainly not be taken by a narrow majority in Parliament. I can reassure the honourable Member that this is not the way we intend to go.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1319	Madam President, I would like I'm very glad I'm getting another line, because I honestly didn't understand. Per Söderlund is welcome to take it one more time. If you don't want to be there, it's better to say it than to have some strange posture where you should have both. And if you want to join, it is better to be as honest as the bourgeois parties and say that you want a NATO option and that you want it because you eventually want Sweden to become a member of NATO. I suspect that the Swedish Democrats and Per Söderlund do not like it, but they are now expressing a very liberal view. They don't know which leg to stand on. Maybe it's time to decide and be clear about what's going on. Should we join NATO, or should we not join NATO? What is the Swedish democratic stance?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1323	Madam President, I would like As far as NATO membership is concerned, we have been clear all along: we do not want to join NATO. That has been our position right from the start. However, as I said, the NATO option facilitates defence cooperation with Finland, and there we see a profit in having adopted it. The NATO option also means that we should approach the requirements of NATO for membership, and we think that is great. For example, we want a higher defence budget than Sweden has today; that is something that we have been working for a very long time. To be very clear: we say no to NATO membership, and we have done so since we joined the Parliament. We also have a congressional decision on that. I hope that will reassure Mr Karlsson.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1326	Madam President, I would like When we write down the Swedish objectives for military and civil defence in the Defence Committee, it is an extremely thorough process, and we try to avoid changes as far as possible. Most of the texts currently available have between 15 and 20 years on their necks. I know that the President himself has been involved in the formulation of these objectives. I was a little surprised to note that the Swedish Democrats in their budget motion have written about the objectives of military and civil defence without actually being able to understand why. There is a risk that this will lead to some confusion in defence policy. The field that is constantly plowed grows, as you know, nothing on it. With this, Madam President, I would also like to welcome Per Söderlund into the defence debate and the Committee on Defence.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1329	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your welcome. It's great to be on the defense committee. I don't have as long experience as Allan Widman has of defense work; I'll be quick to admit that. As I said in my speech, we see the Defense Committee as a minimum – that's the least. We can imagine making more investments. As far as 15 - 20 - year - old formulations are concerned, I was not in those days, and I do not know those things in detail. But what the Defense Committee has come up with, we stand behind. That is a minimum; then we can imagine going further.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1332	Madam President, I would like This is not about the level of the grant. I have also noted that SD, KD and M spend 0.5 per mil more on Category 6 than was the government's alternative. This is about formulations about how we should focus our activities and which objectives should be prioritised in military and civil defence. You are in favour of the various proposals made by the Swedish Defence Committee, as Per Söderlund himself points out. Then why have you written about all these goals?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1333	Madam President, I would like As I said, we see them as a minimum. We have many times even a higher ambition than the Defence Committee, and you can have that. You can support everything that has been said there. It's great things and a good start. However, wanting to go further I do not see as a problem, rather as a further development of the objectives. We have spent a great deal of money on the defence budget every year since we entered the Parliament. It feels safe that we have done it, because we see that these are important things to invest in. As I said in my speech, one cannot dismantle a defence and then build it up when necessary. Then it's too late. We are now aiming for the 2030 target. It's a very long time ahead, and a lot of things can happen back then.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1335	Madam President, I would like First of all, I note that the first year of the current defence decision-making period has passed quickly. There will soon be only four years left until it is time for the next defence decision-making period. We have agreed in the defence decision on important activities in the coming years. We will, among other things, follow up how the implementation of the defence decision is going and how destined funds are used. We will also return to major discussions and discussions on the continuation after 2023 and 2025 with a view to 2030 and the years thereafter. During the work of the Defence Committee over the past few years and also in the negotiations and discussions leading up to the defence decision, the Center Party has taken responsibility for obtaining more money for the Armed Forces' activities, both military and civilian. We also support a clear target of 2 per cent by 2030 and continued prioritisation of not least ground fighting forces and efforts to ensure that Sweden as a whole can be better defended. The years that have passed have also shown many of the tendencies and assessments made by the Defence Committee for the presentation of the report on the resilience of both civil defence and military defence. We remember how the ship that transported goods got stuck in the Suez Canal and what consequences it had for the entire global economy and business connections worldwide, how a ship could affect so much. We have seen how more expensive inputs affect food production conditions, how increased gas prices have consequential effects on the European energy market but also on the Swedish market. We have also seen Russia handling the supply of gas to Europe as one of the means of pressure. We have seen the unrest in Belarus. We have seen revelations of espionage on Swedish soil. We've been hit by massive cyber attacks. We follow climate negotiations and climate effects. Not least, we are also now following what is happening on the border with Ukraine, where Russia has established new strongholds and a higher presence of over 100 000 soldiers. This sends out signals that what we have talked about and, in broad agreement, arrived at for the current defence-oriented decision is serious. It is extremely urgent to take this seriously and realise that it is time to act. The whole of the total defence decision up to 2025 must be implemented, but also the whole of the proposals contained in the report "Värnkraft" up to 2030. These are the key positions of the Center Party in the run-up to further work and in order to ensure that it is followed up that costs do not undermine the detention order in force. There is a clear expectation from our partner countries that we should make a substantial increase in expenditure to the overall defence. We must listen to this and take it seriously, as well as strengthening cybersecurity. Nevertheless, I am pleased in this situation that more and more representatives of more policy areas are beginning to see links between overall defence planning and the different areas. We see it in food and energy issues and in business as to what has happened during the pandemic and how to evaluate the effects of the pandemic. Our day-to-day preparedness and also our emergency preparedness need to be developed significantly. Madam President, I would like The focus of the Center Party is on reducing vulnerabilities and our dependence on the outside world, not least our dependence on supplies from Russia of oil and other inputs that we need to have a robust society. Our focus is also on changing society and taking advantage of domestic opportunities to develop new fuels. Part of our draft budget is EUR 20 million for unit activities. It is primarily directed to state aviation, so that the government will go ahead and use biojet fuel in government flights. It is a clear mark and a start to a switch to more renewable fuels also in the aircraft used by the state. This has begun in the military field, and we know that a great deal can be done. We are behind the increase in funding for the Coast Guard. It is extremely important for many reasons, including for the presence around Sweden when it comes to monitoring what is happening in our coastal areas. The Center Party has also seen a need to spend additional money, in addition to the rather substantial increase in the proposal now in favour of preventive action, when it comes to developing the municipalities' climate adaptation work and other climate adaptation work. That's another 100 million. The Chairman of the Defence Committee and I were together with other representatives at the beginning of 2021 at home in Värmland and took note of what high water levels in Glafsfjorden's water system can have for many farmers in the area. The area was hit hard in 2000 and 2001. We are also putting more money into our proposal to compensate the municipalities for the increased workload and responsibilities imposed on them in the civil defence efforts. We need funds here, too, to go further in local work. We are also putting EUR 5 million in increased funding to the Haveris Commission to extend, if possible, the task of analysing serious and harmful cyber-related accidents. Madam President, I would like We're in a troubled time. The defence committee's observations on several occasions during the year and the recommendations for the next year are very important to consider and remember based on how the world around us changes and what may happen in our neighbourhood. It is important that we stick together and work proactively for our democracy. We need to have a dialogue on the continued development of total defence and help to prioritise these issues over the next few years, both economically and so that they permeate the overall leadership of state, regions and municipalities. Then the country can take clear steps forward. The re-establishment of several regiments is in that direction. More will have to be done.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1354	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members and all of you who are listening at home! We are debating today the area of expenditure in the state budget that is concerned with defence and security policy. The Left Party has presented its own state budget in which we talk about all our efforts and our economic policies. The most important guiding words of the Left Party in political work are always equality. Working for equality is also important in defence and security policy. We know that equal societies are stronger societies. It is by sticking together, closing economic gaps, helping each other and caring for each other that society becomes more resilient to crises and attacks. When we trust each other and get to know each other as individuals and in groups, we can see through and expose propaganda and errors. When we stick together, it is easier to cope with major crises in everyday life, such as blackouts or worse things like floods and fires. Our strength lies in our relationship and in our community. We all have a shared responsibility to face all kinds of threats, whether they are climate-related or from misinformation, racism or extremism. There is also a need for increased gender equality work within the Swedish Armed Forces. The proportion of women in the Armed Forces is still low, although a great deal is being done to increase the number of women. It is of the utmost importance that the Swedish Armed Forces have strategic work in order for more women to want to do military service and then remain in the business. Yesterday, we met in the Committee on Defence, the Plikt Council, the elected representatives of the conscripts. A large part of the discussion was about the work to get workable clothes and equipment for women, and the procedures for dealing with harassment and threats between conscripts. These are two very important issues that need to be resolved in order for the work on gender equality to be even better. Madam President, I would like We are still in the great civilian crisis caused by the pandemic and the Corona virus. The pandemic has demonstrated the need for stronger emergency preparedness and a stronger and better organised civil defence. The future threats to Sweden are the civilian threats, not the military ones. It is therefore important that we begin to equip ourselves seriously to face this kind of threat. We need to continue this work on a very large number of levels, ranging from individual people's emergency preparedness and what they have at home to the work of the major authorities in this area. Perhaps it is time for MSB to update the brochure If the crisis or war comes and send it to all households again, now that we have even more experience of being able to live in crisis. The crisis we are now in with the pandemic has become worse because the well-being of our municipalities and regions is so flawed. A major effort is therefore needed to hire more people, improve the working environment, raise wages and invest in continuous training in order for welfare to be able to cope with these kinds of crises. A well-being that is already on its knees when everything is calm will not be able to cope with an even greater crisis that requires even greater effort and resources. In order for Sweden to be a safe and secure country, major efforts are needed on the public welfare that is closest to us, such as health care and preschool. Climate change and natural disasters are other serious threats to the security of the country and its inhabitants. Around the world, natural disasters are grounds for both wars and conflicts. Tackling climate change therefore means working for more peace and security in society and the world. This must therefore be the top priority in all our work throughout society. Security policy and emergency preparedness must focus on being able to deal with more natural disasters in the future. We must have the courage to take decisions that can counter this type of crisis. Madam President, I would like After all, it was the bourgeois budget of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats that went through in the parliamentary budget vote. We from the Left Party of course think that is very bad. It is a much worse budget in every way. But in this area it actually gives more money to the Coast Guard, something we in the Left Party also wanted. In our budget, we had the most money. We met the Coast Guard in its entirety. Coast Guard is a very important authority for environmental work, civil protection and maritime surveillance. The Coast Guard is currently participating in the major effort to extinguish a ship fire outside Gothenburg, which is in the fourth day. The Coast Guard is doing a fantastic job with their ships. I would like to thank all those involved in this rather difficult work. Recently, I visited the large marine exercise Swenex here outside Stockholm, where the Coast Guard also participated. We were able to see and experience when the Coast Guard towed one of the Swedish Armed Forces' ships, an impressive effort that shows the cooperation in crisis and war. The addition to the Coast Guard's budget is therefore very important for all ships to be able to be used and for you to continue testing fossil-free operation, something that we in the Left Party will follow very closely and find very interesting. Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising. On the basis of our different ideologies and positions, we give priority to various expenditures in the state budget. For a voter, it is ultimately a matter of thinking for yourself about what is most important to bet on and of course choose a party based on it. The Left Party always gives the highest priority to equality. Every time we make decisions and make budgets, we think about how we can make Sweden even more equal. In order for us to have a safe country with a strong society where all operations can function even if there is a crisis, much more resources will be needed for the basic welfare activities in Sweden. We need enough staff. We need well-trained staff. We also need to ensure that people manage on their wages, including in the welfare professions. Sweden therefore needs the budget put forward by the Left Party. It provides greater resources for welfare and can thus provide both greater security and more equality in our country.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1366	Madam President, I would like It was a largely sympathetic and good speech that Hanna Gunnarsson gave. But I have some thoughts. I do not really know what the Left Party really wants when it comes to defence policy. I sat down with the Left Party's budget motion and looked at how many times the word is mentioned. It's zero. The words are also mentioned zero times. The word is mentioned five times. Then it is a question of legal certainty, accuracy and uncertainty. When the word is mentioned, we are talking about environmental taxes, threats of dismissal and threats of censure. Russia is mentioned twice. This is about the distribution of wealth in a comparison between Sweden and Russia. The word is mentioned once, and this is a national strategy for care places. When Hanna Gunnarsson talks in her speech about the serious threats being civilian and not military, one somehow gets a perspective on why you choose not to mention a single word about what all the other speakers so far have so clearly expressed in their speeches: the concern about the growing uncertainty in our neighbourhood. It began in Georgia in 2008 and then in Ukraine, Crimea, Belarus, Poland and so on. It is an increasing exercise activity that has deteriorated over time and is taking place in our neighbourhood. I wonder: Does the Left Party see anything that we do not see? Or is it something the rest of us see that you don't see?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1370	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Karlsson, for the very thorough review of our budget. I'm glad. In politics, we may sometimes be a little critical of word counting. Of course, however, it is possible to engage in it as well. I'd love to tell you what we want. I can readily admit in Parliament that defence and security policy is not at the top of our agenda. At the top of our agenda is always to make society more equal, to reduce economic gaps and to ensure that we have a welfare that can cope with crises. We have seen during the pandemic that we do not have a welfare that can withstand crises. We saw it extremely clearly at the very beginning. We have an elderly care where the staff are unable to cope with the work it needs to do because it is prepared. They pay too little. You can't expand the work you need to do in a crisis. It is the responsibility of the municipalities. But it is also a matter of ensuring that we in the state have a well-being that will be able to cope. That is something we need to discuss in these contexts too. If we do not pass the foundation plate, the foundation of society that is our welfare, our health care, our elderly care and our preschools, we cannot cope with the crises. We have seen it incredibly clearly in the last one and a half, two years. It's been an eye-opener for a lot of people. For example, we have the withdrawal, which allows people to go to work even when they are sick. It's an incredibly big problem. That makes us a vulnerable society. We live in a vulnerable world. We have climate change. We have pandemics. We have cyber attacks. It's incredibly vulnerable around us. But we also make it harder for ourselves when we dismantle our society and what is absolutely closest to us.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1378	Madam President, I would like I sympathise with the idea of making society more equal. I sympathise with the idea that we should strengthen welfare and provide more resources. The concern is that this idea does not explain why we should not take the increased concern and security developments seriously. There's the left side empty. Hanna Gunnarsson and the Left Party have now received a new party chairman who loves to quote the old Social Democratic party chairman. I don't know why I don't have my own greatness from my own party. But since it is now Social Democrats who are quoted, I would like to send a message to Hanna Gunnarsson and the Left Party. This is what Tage Erlander said in 1959.We cannot fail to resist any attacker or rebuttal to oppose violations of the country's neutrality. In the present world, defence is a necessary support for foreign policy. This is how we could have expressed ourselves in 2021.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1381	Madam President, I would like I think it is very good that the Social Democrats sympathise with the desire to make society much more equal and to invest in the important welfare we have. I look forward to that kind of effort by the Social Democratic Government in the future now that you can put forward exactly the proposals that you want as Social Democrats. I see a lot of people around us who have a lot of concerns about the vulnerable society we live in. Every Friday there are young people and elderly people out here at Mynttorget, at Stortorget in Lund and certainly also at home in Landskrona and paying attention to the climate change in which we live. We know that we have refugees in the world who must leave their homes because of the climate change in which we live. There is a great deal of concern to be taken seriously. With regard to the more defence-political aspect, I believe that both military service and the efforts that we have made there will greatly boost our society in terms of both crisis preparedness and defence.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1385	Madam President, I would like Tonight we are debating Category 6 Defence and the emergency preparedness of society. I would first like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 2, but otherwise for the committee's proposal in the report. The security situation around the Baltic Sea is becoming increasingly serious. There are several speakers who have pointed it out, and it would be strange otherwise. During the autumn, Russia conducted the largest exercise in 40 years with Zapad-21. There were more than 200 000 soldiers, 290 tanks, 240 artillery pieces, 80 aircraft and a large number of helicopters. What we can see is that Russia's increasingly aggressive behaviour and tougher practices in the Baltic Sea are taking place at the same time as the bloody war in eastern Ukraine continues. Since 2014, 15 000 people have lost their lives. At the moment, approximately 115 000 Russian soldiers are on the border with Ukraine. I was with the Defence Committee with several of those present in this House visiting Ukraine a few years ago. We were in a war hospital and saw with our own eyes how badly injured people had become in the war. There were those who lost their leg or had an arm shot off. It is not far from Sweden. We all know that it takes about two hours to fly to Brussels. But it takes an hour and a half to fly to Kiev. It's not far. At the same time, we see how the Ukrainian Government now fears that Russia is planning an invasion in the near future. The Secretary of State of the United States has said that it may be that it is planned to do so in the near future. At the same time, we are seeing an increase in the Russian military presence in Belarus. Russian bombers travel along the border at Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine. What we understand is that it can erupt a war in our neighborhood. We said in the Defense Committee that if a war happens in our vicinity, we can't imagine that we can stand outside. We're gonna get pulled in from day one. Nor can we ignore the fact that conflicts in other parts of the world can affect us, for example with our livelihoods. Madam President, I would like In such a debate, it is important to ask ourselves the question: what can we do? It's two simple things. Number one is, of course, to strengthen our defense. I would like to point out that we cannot afford any delay in the implementation of the Defence Committee's proposal. The entire proposal of the Defence Committee shall be implemented. There is indeed danger in delay. Sometimes there are some debaters who think that we have all the time in the world. I don't think that's the case. It is important that we now ensure that it becomes a reality. Number two is that we need to upgrade our partnership in the NATO Defence Alliance to full membership of NATO. A collaboration with Finland is great. But if the worst happens, it's not deterrent enough. I think we all know that in this House. It is much better to prepare with your friends than to have to improvise in the event of the worst. Therefore, it would be much better for Sweden and for our surrounding world, and it would increase predictability. That is exactly what Krister Bringéus said in his investigation. That's why we need to take that step. I think there are several in this House who remember what Svenska Dagbladet wrote in March 2014 when reference was made to a meeting here in Parliament where the then US ambassador Mark Brzezinski said that he must be frank and say that Sweden is not guaranteed protection under Article 5 in the event of a conflict. It may be worth recalling. That was just when Russia had taken Crimea. He recalled that Ukraine had closer ties with NATO than Sweden. That's what he said. This is a reminder to us that this is real. That is why it is much better that we now take this step fully. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have long been committed to increasing defence spending. We need to come up to 2% of bnp. This is about something as simple as paying the insurance premium. Sweden's freedom is worth defending. That is why it is very gratifying to read the report in the context of the agreement based on KD, M and SD, where for the first time we have ever adopted a report that has stated an objective that Sweden should go to a 2% defence grant. And it will be needed. If Sweden is to be able to pay the bills and implement all of this, we must, like the rest of the world, invest in reaching 2% of GDP. It is also important because we cannot have any underfunded defence decisions. Another thing that I want to make a impact on is that transparency is important. That is something we have seen in other countries. We have seen in the Defence Committee that in Germany, for example, every year there is a White Paper which clearly shows the defence appropriations and how they have gone in the respective defence teams. We pointed out in the Defence Preparation that there must be, for example, long-term object frames for the combat aircraft system and the underwater area in the defence budget. Last year we saw this in a ten-year perspective, and we need to do that in order to understand developments. But now that we got the budget, it was only for two years. That is not acceptable. It is important that we can have transparency and that the Swedish people see how it goes. Not least, those of us who want to go up to 2% must be able to show that the money is being spent reasonably. It is therefore to be welcomed that we now agree across party boundaries that the government must arrange for this. As several have said here before, it is gratifying that the Coast Guard receives an increase in funding. It's necessary. There must be a balance between the tasks you get and the money you get. It has been pointed out – we have been told time and again in the Committee on Defence by the Coast Guard – that the money is not enough and that you cannot carry out what you are supposed to do. That is why it is important and valuable that these 70 million should now come into being. As has been pointed out here before, the fire that we now see outside Gothenburg is an illustration of this. Perhaps the most advanced vessels on the coast guard are still at the dock because they do not have the resources. We can't have that. Last of all, I'm gonna say something about cybersecurity. It's something that's important. The FRA has pointed out several years ago that there are a great many cyber attacks. They said a few years ago that there were 10,000 cyber attacks a month. Now there is no mention of numbers, but it is said to have increased. We know that Ukraine has been hit on several occasions by cyber attacks where a quarter of a million people have been out of power. This can happen to Sweden too, which is why it is so important that we strengthen cyber security. That is why it is also very unfortunate that we have had it all divided into different areas of responsibility. It falls between the chairs. It is therefore tragic to see what happens with the cyber security centres. Instead of having a single authority with the main responsibility, there are seven different authorities. This is not good enough! It is not in line with what other countries have. Therefore, this is something we point out, and we also want it to be something for which a single department has to take the main responsibility.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1404	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the Liberals, or then the People's Party, at the 1998 national meeting in Lund called for full Swedish membership of NATO. I would also like to say that although the Liberals now supported their own budget in this House, it also included a reinforcement of the funding for the Coast Guard of SEK 50 million. Madam President, I cannot help but start by addressing Niklas Karlsson, who, of course, quite firmly beat his chest when it came to the applications for Swedish defence. It is a fact that, in the last few years of the previous defence decision-making period, we fell to 1.0 percent of GDP. In view of the defence decision we took in this House on 15 December last year, I had been following the process for four years and sitting at every negotiating table. I can only say quite calmly that the Social Democrats have been against every penny in the increase in funding for defence. It started with Niklas Karlsson and his party colleagues not wanting to sign the funding in the Defence Committee. It went on to say that Peter Hultqvist on Aftonbladet's debate page explained that it is not possible to spend money on defence in the middle of a pandemic. But now we have the result, and the defence decision 2020 is truly historic. We go from about 1 per cent of the bnp to – if now Konjunkturinstitutet is right – 1.74 per cent of bnp 2025. But the defence decision is also unique in terms of the degree of detail. I believe, Madam President, that this is because Parliament did not want to be misunderstood this time. All too often, the orders we have made have not been delivered. The defense decision is also unique in the sense that both suspenders and belt were provided this time. We introduced the design-to-cost principle, which means that if a material project is at risk of going beyond the cost framework, you can either reduce the volume to order or change the specification so that the cost does not occur. We are well on the way to establishing a total defence inspection. I know that the President asked questions about how this is going. It's going very well, I can tell you. The timetable set out in the defence decision for launching the Agency is likely to be met. We also agree that it will be a post-election control post 2022, when the Swedish Defence Committee will carefully ensure that the activities carried out by the Swedish Armed Forces in both financial and substantive terms are in line with the defence decision. Last but not least, the preparation was also proposed, and the Riksdag decided to introduce object frames for the essential security interests, i.e. combat aircraft and submarines. The government will then come back with two-year object frames – this, Madam President, despite the fact that the deliveries and final deliveries of both combat aircraft and submarines are much later on. That is why I am very pleased that a united committee is now pointing out to the government that there must be an object framework that covers all the time until final delivery has taken place. We have been building submarines and fighter planes on so - called current account for a long time in this country, and this must stop. During the autumn, the Minister for Defence has come up with the news that the government will acquire a strategy for veteran politics. This is somewhat surprising because, more than ten years ago, the Social Democrats rejected the current veteran legislation when it was up for vote in Parliament. It has also repeatedly said no to a veteran legislation to protect civil servants who carry out international operations. It even said no to 29 May as a general flag day until the KU threatened with an announcement. In an interview with Peter Hultqvist in Invidzonen's newspaper, he is asked: What happened to the family of the military veterans – can they expect additional support? He answers a clear no to the question. However, the family members are already entitled under current legislation to information, protection and support from the Swedish Armed Forces. A few years ago, I attended a seminar where nurses told me about their experiences in caring for Ebola disease in Africa. Those were pretty hair-traveling stories. Let me say, Madam President, that I am convinced that the risks and wear they were exposed to are completely comparable to those experienced by the military in their foreign efforts. The fate of Zaida Catalán in Congo, in particular, bears witness to the plight of these civil servants. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1419	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether it is in his eagerness to try to take the Liberals over 4% that Allan Widman in today's debate is trying to frustrate the truth. What is said in the rooms and what agreements you make is one thing, but the fact is that it is under Social Democratic governments that we now see historical investments in defence – 87% in an increased economic framework since 2015. It is a historic effort that we have not seen since the 1950s, under Social Democratic governments. This should be contrasted with the eight years in which Allan Widman and his government were in power. Then there was another sound in the bark. Then the defense was a special interest. And there was no such thing as broad political agreements on defence and security policy. At that time, they were prepared to phase out general military service by a three-vote margin. It's changed. Now Allan Widman can be part of the talks. Now, if he wants to, he can join in making deals. Now we do not go to the Swedish parliament and make decisions with three votes margin. Now we are trying to find broad solutions. Nor is it the case, Madam President, that Allan Widman has been involved in all the negotiations. Some of these have been abandoned at the end. Of course, if you want to be part of the fruit harvest, you also have to be part of it – all the way. I recalled earlier in the debate what the moderate representative Johan Forssell had said: it is not about what is said and done but about what is done. I share that view. It is under Social Democratic governments that we have seen historical investments in defence, not under bourgeois.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1424	Madam President, I would like What Niklas Karlsson says makes my thoughts fly over to this with NATO membership and what NATO partnership means for Swedish security. I usually describe it as not being covered by any defence guarantees because we are not members, but it may well be that, if Sweden is needed for NATO to rescue another NATO country, we can also get help. The role of Peter Hultqvist and the Social Democrats in this matter could also be described. They have been fortunate enough to sit in power, a very weak government power, and have therefore had to listen to others. I repeat what I have said, and I stand by it: the Social Democrats say no to every penny under various scruples. I would also like to point out that I think I was present at every negotiation that took place in the framework of the defence settlement between the government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals. I cannot think of any single occasion when I was not present. The fact remains: Without the help of all alliance parties, these historic efforts would never have taken place. But let's hope, Niklas Karlsson, that they can help me over 4 percent.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1427	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman almost managed to shut me up when he hoped that somehow I would help get the Liberals and Widman over 4%. If that's the case, I'm gonna have to bitterly regret taking this line shift. I guess it's a good idea if there's a draw aid. In our world, it is not a question of us, who currently have the government, deciding everything. It is a question of finding broad solutions, particularly with regard to detention and security policy. So that there are negotiations and discussions is good. The fact that it is a matter of giving and taking is quite extraordinary. And this is quite different from what it was during the eight years when Allan Widman and his government were in power. Then it was the government and the glory. Then there were no deals. Decisions were then taken by three votes. I hope that the line that the Social Democrats have now taken with historic efforts and broad solutions will also apply in the coming years.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1430	Madam President, I would like It certainly will. Like some other parties, we too are in favour of at least 2.0% of GDP in defence appropriations. We know that it will require a further increase in the budget for the period 2025 – 2030. I do not think that the Liberals, or the People's Party at the time, have so much to be ashamed of when it comes to defence policy. We had excellent cooperation, for example, with the Social Democrats in the Defence Committee 2009-2012. We did not achieve much, but now we have the opportunity – thanks to the fact that there has been a weaker government that has to listen to the political opposition as well. Let me conclude by saying that it even went so far that Peter Hultqvist threatened not to present a defence bill at all last autumn.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1433	Frau President! The Center Party was up here before and talked a little bit about the defence policy and the efforts there. It didn't really seem like you had it all figured out, but it might then clear up. The Social Democrats were up and did not understand this with the NATO option, but perhaps we can also sort it out. Having said that, in this debate, I am not thinking as normal when we talk about total defence of the Armed Forces so much. Instead, I'm going to talk a little bit about the emergency preparedness and consequences for our emergency preparedness. Before I get into that, I would like to say that in our budget we spent billions more than the other parties, as you know. The important thing for us is that the agreement now states that the allocation will reach 2% by 2030. This means, as we see it, that efforts must be increased after 2025 and then continued. I am going to touch on civil defence, which everyone here thinks is necessary. Without a civil defense, the military doesn't work. Everyone agrees. But one thing that I intend to touch on is the electricity supply and leadership in Sweden. This has direct links to crisis preparedness and the ability to deal with difficulties. The incompetence shown by the government in ensuring that we have a robust electricity supply in Sweden is astounding and incomprehensible. Almost an effort has to be made to destroy a well-functioning electrical system, but this has been achieved. Does it have any impact on our emergency preparedness? Yes, of course it has. When we cannot even today, in peacetime, ensure that we have a robust electricity supply, we can imagine a cyber attack or any other influence. How will the civil defence with the emergency preparedness function? It won't work at all. And without a good civil defence, the military doesn't work – wasn't that what we just said? If we don't have emergency preparedness, it's chaos. Then it won't work. And what do you do from the government? Absolutely nothing! Wind spinners are being built completely for nothing. I will come back to that. In order to achieve a robust electricity supply, we need to restart, with the necessary investments, the shutdowns as soon as possible and build more. We need to speed up the state of the environment and get this off the ground. We need to rebuild the grids. It is not possible to transport down power from Norrland with these lines. You lose 50 to 75 percent of your power. That part will be taken by Mattias Bäckström in the next debate here, which is our responsibility for this and much more knowledgeable and knowledgeable than I am. But the connections to emergency preparedness I'm going to take. It is important, wrote the government in a bill in 2020, to strengthen civil defence. I will read a direct quote from this bill, which has number 2020/ 21:30: a state authorities, municipalities and regions, individuals, business and voluntary organisations; ..................................................... This therefore permeates all policy areas. What happens now that this has been said? Yes, the government has abdicated completely from its responsibilities. What else do you say about these parts of the investigations that are going on? It is just illustrated that there is no command for the defense. You know what it looks like with the authorities. It's arranged vertically. In the regulatory letters, which I have read some of today but do not have time to go through here now, there are uncertainties as to what is the meaning and so on. For example, there is no escort activity for the Swedish Armed Forces. But we don't have time to go through that now. In an investigation that comes at the beginning of next year says: Stocks of healthcare products, with all parts such as pharmaceuticals, medical technology etc., for care that cannot be retained, we are obliged to keep. But we don't. We need legal text for this. But then it is not possible to have drain pipes with different responsibilities, but we must have someone who coordinates across the line. There is no coordination of this in Sweden. And just in time is rather noted all. You shrug your shoulders at this. There's no one touching it. We have a paralysed government that with its support party, the Green Party has only the environment and to build windmills in front of us no matter what happens to the electricity supply. The farmers – I know several, and I'm sure you do too – have enormous problems with their electricity supply and high costs of getting back and forth. What's the government doing? Nada. This is directly linked to emergency preparedness. When it comes to food security, it is thought that things will be fine. Right? Then there is the part of introducing civil duty, which we have said for a long time to do. We need to introduce a civil duty. In addition to coordination between the authorities, a civil duty must be introduced and everyone must be placed in war. Children's day carers, bankers and so on should have their war placement order in order for society to function at all. You have to make sure you have power on the gas stations. Go back to this! It's on a couple of sandwiches even now. When the electricity goes out, you can start the power plant. I do at home. When the electricity goes away, I start the power plant, and then I have heat and water, and the fridge and freezer work. To ignore this at the level of the government is unbelievable, I think. What did Percy Barnevik once say? We have cheap electricity in Sweden, we have clean electricity, we have secure electricity, we have, in short, the energy supply that all other countries would like. And our main concern is how we can get out of this situation in the shortest possible time. As Percy Barnevik said when he was head of the ABB group. There we are. We are phasing this out. It's very troubling. Another thing that is very worrying, I think, is that there is a polarisation in society today in all areas. When we entered the Riksdag, we were accused of one thing and another in public square meetings and other things. There will be polarization not only between exclusion areas and so on, but it will be so between all of us. Now it has become a different tone. But it is still the case that even families break free because of differences of opinion. State television is fueling this, in the opinion of many. Many of us watch Web TV and other media, like New Times and the new Epoch Times magazine, to get a different picture and be able to compare for ourselves. Now you even start polarizing when you say: You can't come into the restaurant! I will not go into any debate here and now on vaccines, but how can we introduce such provisions at all that some may enter but not others? In my personal opinion, the whole of society is being drawn apart with tocods about vaccination certificates and so on. It pulls us apart, and it is absolutely unbelievable that it should go on like this. Even if you want me to talk about this more and unwind, I think that's enough. The conclusion is: Put it down! Abort all wind power expansion! Preserve a few and stop destroying the environment! Make the decision to restart the shutdown reactors as soon as possible! Make decisions on coordination! Appoint managers – not party books, but real managers – for the management of this activity to the authorities! Scratch any plans to impose restrictions on people's rights and freedoms! It just increases the polarization and division into us and them. Although you would like me to continue for a while, I would like to thank you for the floor.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1455	Madam President, I would like My first question to Roger Richthoff is based on the previous speech by Per Söderlund, representative of the Swedish Democrats. It was then said that the Swedish Democrats are now behind the target of 11⁄2 per cent for defence expenditure in 2025. The defense arrangement, to which Allan Widman referred earlier, probably means that we land higher than that level. How does Roger Richthoff view this? Does Roger Richthoff share the Swedish Democrats' view of the target of 11⁄2 percent of bnp to the defense in 2025? And how does Roger Richthoff feel about the fact that all the individual proposals submitted by the Swedish Democrats on the budget have not been included after you have been able to negotiate with Christian Democrats and Moderates? The only thing left of the overall proposal is money for the Coast Guard, but nothing extra goes to the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. It is almost 3 billion that the Swedish Democrats have re-used in their individual motion, which is now just falling away. I have listened to Roger Richthoff many times when he has stood in the speaker's seat and expressed his commitment to how much money is needed. Now you don't deliver a single crown extra for next year. What does this mean in practice, Roger Richthoff? Can we assume that everything you convey has a foundation and that it will happen?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1460	Madam President, I would like You can assume that when we make this agreement that is now made, we have to choose between standing alone and running our defence budget that would definitely not have gone through in this House – we know that, because it has not done so for a year, but we are pushing these issues anyway – and capturing the opportunity to look forward in close cooperation with the Moderates and the KD. Then we will make an agreement in the direction of the next election, as I see it. How it will go with that trip is a completely different matter, but this is a good agreement that ensures a better budget than if we had stood by and said: No, we do not want to be there but vote for our budget. It goes straight away, and what's it gonna be? Yes, the Social Democrats' budget. It's worse. It sucks. As far as the 11⁄2% target is concerned, there is a control station in 2023. What will it say? And are we so sure it'll be 1.5% by 2025? I imagine it could land at 1.6% or 1.4%. The control station and the continued talks with KD and M and agreements and agreements will certainly regulate this. What's the most important thing we've got? Well, that's that the defence budget for 2030 is going to be 2%. This means that one must have some form of long-termness after 2025/ 26. But it is not enough with 5 billion 2026/ 27, but it will be a long term for the Swedish Armed Forces here. We are convinced of that. And that's why we joined.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1464	Madam President, I would like Roger Richthoff drew attention in his speech to a lot of criticism of the government. But a little self-examination is not wrong in these Advent times. The Swedish Democrats can think about how much they themselves deliver based on their submitted budget. It's one thing to write a number. It's another thing to deliver in practice. In this case, the Swedish Democrats are showing what it will be in practice. There will not be a single extra crown in the budget for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations next year. We have this in black and white in the documents that we are debating in this debate. It's about doing what you say, Roger Richthoff. Madam President, I would like I am concerned that there is so much discrepancy between rhetoric and delivery in practice.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1467	Madam President, I would like I'll take it one more time. The Center Party's Daniel Bäckström says we're not delivering. But how can we deliver when, year after year, we present our budget but do not get a majority that is in favour of it? We can sit here and say: Now you see that we did not get anything through, and we cannot deliver anything because we do not get a majority. Now the opportunity for a broad agreement was revealed with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It is at a lower level, but it enables our journey up to 2% by 2030. That journey has now begun. Of course we deliver up to 2 percent. We have a majority for that here now. And it will hopefully continue and become even stronger in 2022.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1469	Madam President, I would like I shall highlight two aspects of total defence: coexistence with civil activities and the energy sector. There are two minor discussions in relation to the major budget discussions that have taken place here. The Swedish Armed Forces are in a necessary phase of expansion and growth, which the Center Party applauds. In fact, we have negotiated that money and we very much welcome the development. If you look closely at the places that are now affected by growth, you can see that the Swedish Armed Forces' growth is usually welcomed in the locations. At the same time, however, there is a picture of and a concern that military activity will hamper all other developments in the communities and put a wet blanket over the communities. It becomes particularly clear in southern Sweden where competition for the surface becomes great. The Swedish Armed Forces have a special position in the environmental code. Of course, that's because national security takes precedence over everything else. It's a reasonable special position. But practice has been developed so that the Swedish Armed Forces can in practice slow down everything in terms of residential construction and all other important activities. We're talking about preschool, school, care for the elderly. They are also slowed down by the Swedish Armed Forces' demand not to coexist. What is happening now is synonymous with all other state processes. They take extremely long. Therefore, the Armed Forces become extra careful when it comes to reconsidering their defence decisions. To this you also add large impact areas, for example around their shooting fields. It is clear that this is going to be a very big problem. We know that the Swedish Armed Forces are establishing and re-established in many places. We see concerns about the lack of coexistence between civil and military activities in Gothenburg. We see it on Gotland, with, for example, Tofta shooting field. We see it in Karlsborg, in Sollefteå, in Kristinehamn, in Dalarna, in Revinge with Revingehed and in Uppsala. There are several reasons for this. Sometimes the business and technical conditions change. For example, when Gripen E gets stronger engines that noise more, all military airports will have re-examined licensing processes. It concerns Såtenäs, Varna i Uppsala, Malmen i Linköping, Karlsborg and a few others. We can go deep with some. In Karlsborg, for example, the Swedish Armed Forces have been operating for a long time. Right now they are in the process of renewing five different permit processes in Karlsborg. It will put a wet blanket over all development throughout Karlsborg municipality. The Swedish Armed Forces today regularly say no to individual building permits applications for extension of toilets or patios, for example. The reason is that you should not be able to live permanently, in the whole municipality. It is certainly not in the interests of the total defence. On Gotland and Tofta we know that an impact area has been laid that is two mil long and one mil wide. There, the Swedish Armed Forces regularly appeal against all building permits, despite the fact that there are permanent positive advance rulings. It creates legal uncertainty and great losses for the individual, for whom no compensation can be paid. It also creates great anger and a negative attitude towards the Swedish Armed Forces. What happens in practice? The Swedish Armed Forces, which will provide total defence, will have major problems with recruitment of personnel. It will, of course, also reduce peoples' attachment and local acceptance of defence. I am absolutely sure that all these negative processes will also affect recruitment to the Home Guard. Therefore, the Center Party believes it is high time that the government returned to Parliament with proposals that reinforce the coexistence of military and civil defence. Changes in permit processes will be required for it to work. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about energy supply. It is also a crucial issue for total defence. Today, for example, we know that Russia is affecting a lot. We import 24 million cubic metres of oil. At the moment, we are also seeing what is happening to the energy crisis. Putin twists the gas tap, which drives up the electricity price. That debate follows in this House. When it comes to wind power installations, the Swedish Armed Forces really need to change their routines. Today, it is routinely said no, for example, to the large wind farm far outside Sandhamn. It could contribute a great deal to the electricity supply to Stockholm. You say no to that. The second example concerns Norrbotten, which today needs a lot of renewable electricity for its industrial development. There the surface is blocked to 90 percent by low-flying areas. This makes much of the transition planned with Hybrid, LKAB and other things impossible. Co-existence at sea and all sea plans are indeed flawed, despite the fact that in other countries sensor technology is in place when moving to sea. It's actually a win-win situation. The Swedish Armed Forces also slow down obstacle lighting on wind power, even though it is used in Denmark, for example. The Swedish Armed Forces and civil society must find better forms of cooperation for both civilian housing, civil operations and energy activities if total defence is to have a positive development forward.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1485	Madam President, I would like We go now, late in the evening, into Category 21 Energy. The energy system is crucial to Sweden's ability to cope with the important climate change. More and more sectors of society are going to switch in order to reduce the emissions we have. Then access to electricity will be absolutely crucial. Sweden has good conditions for managing the transition with renewable energy. We have hydropower, large land areas and opportunities in the sea along coastal stretches suitable for wind energy. We also have many different opportunities to get bioenergy. Our energy sector, in my view, is at the very forefront. Sweden must have a robust energy system with high security of supply and low environmental impact where fossil energy is gradually phased out. We shall have energy at competitive prices. But that said, Madam President, the electricity prices we have seen recently are far too high. As is well known, it is not the policy that sets electricity prices, but it is done in an open market, and when Russia tightens the gas supply to Europe it is contagious to our market and to Swedish electricity prices. At the same time as we see such developments, we must work to increase the transmission capacity within the country through an expanded electricity grid. We also need to increase production so that we can produce more electricity. There is a lot of exciting new technology here in the form of a massive expansion of sea wind power. Combined with hydrogen storage, it can create a balance in the energy system. As things stand today, this is also cheaper than investing in nuclear power. In addition, we need to move towards renewable energy. We're in the middle of a climate and energy transition. It gives us the opportunity to create more jobs and investment in industry and energy systems. This also creates unique conditions for new industrialisation throughout our country. Sweden is a pioneer country when it comes to the conversion of the energy system. Today, 99% of our electricity generation is fossil-free. Over 90 per cent of the fuel used in heat production is fossil-free or recycled. We Social Democrats are pushing for Sweden to continue to lead the transition towards reaching the target of 100% renewable energy in the electricity system in 2040 and net zero emissions in 2045. Therefore, we must take the height for doubling the electricity demand to 2045 from today's approximately 140 terawatt hours. Investments in the electricity grids are crucial to cope with the climate change that lies ahead. At the moment, historically large investments and investments are being made to expand core networks in Sweden and increase transmission capacity from northern to southern Sweden. The expansion of transmission networks has tripled compared to previous years. Not least, the rapid expansion of wind power must continue in the coming years. The government is working to halve the time for new electricity lines and has proposed new resource enhancements to the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to, among other things, halve the lead times for new power lines. Permit processes for environmental permits need to be changed and become modern and even more effective. Measures are needed to increase power generation in the southern part of our country. Here offshore wind power can play a major role. The potential is enormous. The interconnection charges to the core offshore wind grids shall be abolished. All in all, major efforts are being made and major efforts will continue to be made. The government is completing work on a national electrification strategy that will shortly be presented. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification that contributes to achieving the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets. The electrification strategy takes a holistic approach to the conditions in our energy sector to enable a comprehensive electrification in society, driven by the switch to electric transport. In addition, new industrial processes require very large amounts of electricity. One of the starting points for the Government's electrification strategy is a planning framework with the possibility of doubling the use of electricity up to 2045. The Parliament's decided target of 2040 is that 100 per cent of renewable electricity production should be just one goal. It is important to emphasise that it is a goal and not a deadline that prohibits nuclear power. Nor does it mean the closure of nuclear power through political decisions. Madam President, I would like Not only do we need to produce electricity and better transfer electricity into our networks, but we also need to be able to energy-efficient. The Parliament has set targets of 50 percent more efficient energy use by 2030 and has, for example, proposed support measures for energy efficiency in industry through a restart of the Energy Step. This has M, KD and SD unfortunately rejected, and 100 million to 2022 disappeared in one battle. Furthermore, the Social Democrats oppose the fact that the Conservative Trio has decided to change the purpose of two of the appropriations. In our opinion, it sends a political signal that does not benefit Swedish climate policy to increase the supply and use of renewable energy. In addition, M, KD and SD are moving a large part of the appropriations in the expenditure area, affecting the appropriations for infrastructure and electrified transport, which are reduced by 600 million. The conservative trio also reduces the allocation to energy technology by half a billion. It is money that would have gone to expand charging infrastructure and support for biogas. Much is, however, about the mere transfer of money to other appropriations. Perhaps during the debate it will be clear what the money will instead be spent on and what it will be used for. Finally, I would like to say that Sweden's energy policy is strong despite the fact that M, KD and SD have been in and out of the budget. However, it is a question mark whether the removal of investment aid for energy efficiency, as well as the reduction in fuel tax, is the right way to go when at the same time we are in a burning climate crisis. I support the budget in addition to the transfers of appropriations made by M, KD and SD. Instead, I refer to our particular opinion.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1502	Madam President, I would like There was some talk about additional power from Mattias Jonsson but not a single syllable about the power at risk. The trials we now have of existing hydropower are the next Cementa crisis. The difference is that it will last slowly over 20 years. In the water authorities' action plans we have zero significantly modified water. When it comes to agriculture zero, when it comes to the cultural environment zero and when it comes to hydroelectric power a few dozen – and we have nearly 2 000 hydroelectric plants in Sweden. Take the example of Ljungan. It will be spilled 0.5 percent hydropower to get good environmental measures says the national plan guidelines. Water authorities' action plans say 5%. The benefits created are an eightyth of what it costs to create these values. Under the EU Water Framework Directive, Member States are able to define what is and justify less stringent requirements for heavily modified waters when it comes to things that are technically impossible to implement or excessively expensive. After all, the concept of excessive costs can be interpreted as being too high in comparison with the benefits achieved in a socio-economic calculation. For me, eighty times the cost is completely unreasonable. Does the government think that this is in line with the political will expressed in the bill regarding the aquatic environment and hydropower? All exceptions shall be used. Will the government act on this matter?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1507	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin is asking questions about hydropower. It is, of course, an extremely important part of our energy mix and is perhaps the force that can still be regulated in the most effective way so that we can meet the country's energy needs. The jungle was mentioned as an example, and we have a lot of small-scale hydroelectric plants in the country, not least in southern Sweden. They are a very large part of the balance of our energy system that we need. It is therefore important that we follow developments on these issues, endorse it and see if further action is needed. The question of the government's reasoning should also be put to government representatives, but as a Member of Parliament, I see it as very valuable to follow developments and the issue so that we have a stable, planned energy where hydropower is a large and important part.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1510	Madam President, I would like Yes, hydropower is extremely important, and in fact the Social Democrats themselves wrote that it is fundamental to the energy system. The problem is that Mattias Jonsson says he will monitor and follow this. These cases begin on 1 January. Do the Social Democrats and the Member of Parliament Mattias Jonsson think that the action plans from the water authorities are well balanced? Does Mattias Jonsson think that more heavily modified water should be pointed out? Does Mattias Jonsson think that the target value of 1.5 terawatts and 2.3 percent should be kept? This is not being done today, and it is not being done in the water authorities' action plans. Is Mattias Jonsson prepared to come to an agreement here in Parliament and ensure that the legislation is complied with? These are my questions to the Social Democrats, and they have not been answered.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1512	Madam President, I would like My principle is that the legislation should, of course, be kept. In my previous speech, I said that we both need to follow up on compliance with legislation and ensure that we do not have a development in which we spoil the possibilities for small-scale hydropower, as in Ljungan, because it has a major impact on Swedish electricity supply, not least for the balance of our system. As a Member of Parliament, I follow this closely, and I am convinced that the government does too.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1514	Madam President, I would like Energy production in Sweden will double, but I do not hear Mattias Jonsson mention anything other than hydropower and wind power. But is it possible to balance today's system with only existing hydropower? Or should we make it more efficient or build new ones? The equation doesn't make sense. The honourable Member also mentions that we should use hydrogen, but one loses a huge amount of power when using hydrogen. So far, we do not have sufficient capacity to balance the systems. Furthermore, the honourable Member says it should be business-like. Why, then, should we subsidise the very offshore wind power as much as we will have to do if we are to pay for all the new pipelines that need to be built? Surely we should not make ourselves dependent on Russian natural gas, as Germany, for example, has done. It is a way to balance up the system if you do not want to use oil. When our own balancing power is not enough, the expensive Russian natural gas is used, and because we are integrated with Europe, we will also have to pay for it when we cannot produce our own. For me, the equation doesn't add up. I do not understand how we are going to achieve the political vision of a fossil-free energy supply in Sweden. After all, this system cannot be balanced. I want an explanation.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1520	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for quite a few questions. My picture is that offshore wind power no longer has a great need for subsidies, but it bears its own costs. It is true that hydrogen storage takes place in tests, not least linked to Hybrid, and we have great opportunities to expand this connection to wind power. When it blows less, the electricity is taken from the hydrogen. There will be a loss, but the advantage is that when it blows the wind drives this. Therefore, this loss is not so significant, but hydrogen is created with wind. Let me ask you a question back. Unless there's an understanding of how the equation goes together, I don't understand how the Moderate equation goes together. The Moderates help to say no to various wind farms around our coasts, as in Stockholm, in Trelleborg and Bohuslän, without having any alternatives other than what we hear from the pulpit time and time again about nuclear power. Nuclear power in all honor, but who's going to pay for it? Here the Moderates owe the answer. We have an opportunity with sea wind power that can bear its own costs. As recently as today, there was a study that tells us that we can cope with the increased energy demand of sea wind power by 2030. Until 2050, ocean wind power can produce almost 170 terawatt hours. If you connect it with hydrogen to get balance in the system, we have a very interesting technology ahead of us, and I think we should accept it. Let us get political agreement so that we dare to make these investments.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1525	Madam President, I would like No one would be happier than me if we could live entirely on wind, but offshore wind power in the Stockholm area cannot be transported up to Hybrid. It is thought that hydrogen will be used in industrial projects, but we do not have infrastructure for this. Sweden has no gas infrastructure, and we have lived on the large pipelines from Norrland to southern Sweden and from our nuclear power plants to the rest of the country. We don't want to run over the municipalities. We think it is extremely important that people themselves have acceptance of wind power, nuclear power and other things. We think that local self-government is extremely important. Somewhere you have to work for increased popular acceptance of this. Otherwise, I see huge problems.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1527	Madam President, I would like In the previous post, it was a question of whether we should be dependent on Russian gas. The answer to that question is no. We are seeing what is happening in Europe today. There's a shortage of electricity, and the gas's tightening. Prices are rising, and it is contagious on the Swedish market. We need to find other solutions in Sweden, and then we should not lean on Russian gas. When it comes to issues relating to permits and to saying no, the question that should be put back is: if it is difficult to get sea wind out on the horizon, how can you get permission and acceptance to expand nuclear power with several reactors around our country? I believe that this is a greater challenge than sea wind spinners, which are able to cope with our electricity supply by 2050, according to the forecasts currently available.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1529	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias, for the post! You pointed out that Sweden can cope with the transition with renewable energy, which was then repeated with the goals of Swedish energy policy, that it could be done with a high level of security of supply and that it could be affordable in this context. Now we see the consequences of the policy that the government has pursued, which has been based on such naive attitudes, where we have recurring problems with high electricity prices. It is volatile, and we have problems with transmission capacity. Planned power generation has been shut down with a high capacity factor, which has radically increased the demand for transmission capacity. There we now have problems with system support services and impact problems even in the summer. In the light of this desire to exclude nuclear power and to say in the speech that it will be cheaper if you do so and do not have it in the future power system, it makes it a little interesting what you base that view on. All the data shows that a mix between planned and weather-dependent power generation is required. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise looked at this in its project Power Collection Power Supply, and it turned out that a power system that has nuclear power is 40 percent cheaper than a fully renewable system. This is an industry organisation that is quite interested in having as low prices from a system perspective as possible. It is not just about electricity production itself, it is about the total cost, including transmission. Then it is interesting to know what the Social Democrats base the view that excluding nuclear power will make it a cheaper power system.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1533	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. In my previous post I said that it is a goal but no stop date. No one has said that it is a ban on building new nuclear power. Still, no one has been able to account for who takes and secures the costs involved, at least not for me. There, I think that Mattias Bäckström Johansson is also responsible for the answer, so far in this debate. No, it is not a naive attitude, but we can see examples around Europe. Take, for example, the United Kingdom, where new nuclear power is being built, and it is both the state, private and Chinese that are building. There are delays and delays, and the business community regrets bitterly that they went in with guarantees of the cost increases that have been created. If you pick up money and guarantee, there are certainly possibilities, but I haven't seen it on the map. In sea wind power, which is cheap and where hydrogen storage can be switched on, however, we have a future that I think is both interesting and possible and which creates stability in our electricity supply in Sweden. No, as I said, it's not naive. In addition to recent times, we have had very low and competitive electricity prices in Sweden. That is why you can invest as you do now in Hybrid, Northvolt and in service facilities in the north – because we have surpluses of electricity and low prices of electricity. We export electricity, equivalent to 25 terawatt hours in recent years. This corresponds to the needs of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as a whole. But we have problems with the transfer, and we need to strengthen electricity generation in southern Sweden. I think that together in the parties in Parliament we should take on that challenge and face it. And if it's nuclear power, you'll have to show what money's for.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1537	Madam President, I would like It is said that we are not subsidising, but one day the state will have to go in and build a core network at sea, even though we do not have any regional networks connected to it at all. When you attack nuclear power, there are two reactors you lift up. I would like to see Mr Jonsson highlight some other reactor than Hinkley Point and Olkiluoto 3 as an example. There are plenty of successful examples with low costs, and you can build in a short time. The problem is that we do not invest in Sweden, that research has not been allowed here and that in practice there has been a ban on this issue. When it comes to wind power, for example, the government and the Social Democrats want to remove the municipal veto so that municipal politicians are not allowed to decide. However, in the case of nuclear power, the law of 287 out of 290 municipalities prohibits it. If the Social Democrats are so convinced that there is no interest or will to build nuclear power, is it open to making it possible and permitted in all the municipalities of the country?
i-2cRcZb3EKTNDRE2LoyFWHe	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mattias Bäckström Johansson! With regard to what was said about attacking nuclear power, I would say that it is exactly the opposite, as you can see if you look back. We have removed the impact tax on nuclear power, and we have also changed the disposal fund for nuclear waste so that it becomes more profitable for nuclear power. But nuclear power has not kept in competition per terawatt hour produced compared to renewable energy. I note that I did not receive an answer about where the money for new nuclear power will come from. Nevertheless, it is a fundamental question of how these investments are to be managed. So far, no one has been able to answer. If we cannot get answers, it will be difficult to go that way, and then we should look at renewable energy with the new technologies that are emerging and affirming them and try to get them in place so that we can have low, competitive electricity prices in Sweden also in the future.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1542	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his speech. It was good that the honourable Member raised electricity prices. I can agree that the reasoning is in part correct. It is linked to commodity prices, weather and also currencies, but it is not the whole truth. It can also be seen that the high electricity prices in Sweden are due to the fact that the southern parts of the country since the closure of Ringhals 2 are linked to the continent's prices. It is very clear that it was just when Ringhals 2 was closed that prices between north and south were separated. I think it is the policy of the Social Democrats that has brought us there. The Swedish energy mix has not been protected with hydro, renewable and nuclear power. If it had been done, we would not have ended up in this situation, and then we would have had nuclear power in southern Sweden, for example, which could have been delivered to customers in the south. In addition, we would have had the opportunity to suppress the fossil dependence that exists on the continent. This would have been economic for Swedish electricity customers while providing climate benefits. My question to the honourable Member is: why does the Swedish energy mix not want to be protected – what is the problem? I hear about renewables, but we need both the renewable and the planned to have a system that works.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1545	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. As far as nuclear power is concerned first and if we have production or shut down certain reactors, the truth is that we have higher energy from our nuclear power plants today than we had during the alliance period. With regard to the major problem of the high electricity prices that we are seeing at the moment, there is no doubt that a number of factors are controlling, including the pandemic and gas from Russia being tightened. Europe has and has had higher electricity prices than Sweden, and it is contagious on the Swedish market, especially the area in southern Sweden. Then it will have that effect, at the same time as it is unusually cold. But it was not so long ago that we had negative electricity prices. It was last spring, and we had some of it last autumn too. We have had, and I see in front of us, competitive electricity prices. But I am absolutely not satisfied with the high electricity prices that we have now. That is why, most recently yesterday, I proposed in the Committee on Economic Affairs that we invite the Swedish power grid, the Swedish Energy Market Authority and the Swedish Energy Agency to find out if there are measures that we can take here and now to overcome the high electricity prices and get a better picture of the situation. I think we need to gather together here to see what keys there are. But the long-term issues that once again tend to come up from the Liberals are also about nuclear power. It is indirectly this that is said. There are no answers there either about where the money should be taken and what that investment should look like. Nuclear power expansion combined with renewables is good – yes. But if that is not possible and no one wants to pay for it, we only have renewables. I'd like to ask you a question back. How do the Liberals resolve the question of getting new nuclear power to do what they themselves argue for?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1551	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is still the case that commodity prices, weather and currencies are part of the response to high electricity prices. Another part is that we do not have nuclear power capacity in southern Sweden. It's very clear. Then we can have different views on the importance of this in terms of electricity prices. But it is clear that it has affected electricity prices in any case. The nuclear issue is quite interesting. We have an energy policy target that speaks of 100% renewable. For example, if someone wants to build a house in one place but knows that in 20 years' time there will be a green area there, no one wants to invest in a house. Therefore, I think that the Social Democrats are still obliged to answer why we have the energy policy objectives and why they do not protect the Swedish energy mix.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1554	Madam President, I would like I would definitely like to say that we are protecting the energy mix. We need a stable, robust and competitive price for our electricity production. Of course we protect it. I think there is something strange when we hear the Liberals in the speaker's chair talking about that we should not do that. When we had an energy deal, the Liberals couldn't get along all the way and quit. I find that regrettable. Had they shown that they were interested in the issues all the way and came it with input so that together we could have created a predictability for those who want to invest in increased energy in our country, it would have been good if we had a broad political agreement on it. However, I note that the Liberals were unable to do so when we concluded the energy agreement. I would like to add another aspect of the high electricity prices. What we saw happen last week was that Poland, which has a shortage of electricity, asked Sweden for production aid.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1556	Madam President, I would like If we politicians are really to take responsibility for the whole energy system, I see as a Christian Democrat a need for our base power as a base plate, that is, hydropower and nuclear power. If we are to double our electricity generation, we need all fossil-free energy sources. We have also received reports of what is most cost-effective. It's equal parts of nuclear power, hydropower and wind power. When we see proposals from the Social Democrats for the abolition of the accession fee for offshore wind power and they do not see this as a subsidy, I do not agree with that. This is something that really distorts competition. It is often referred to that it is the market itself that should take care of this and that we politicians should not go in and distort this. I certainly think that is the case. Member Mattias Jonsson said earlier that nuclear power should remain. It will be very difficult to understand when you have an energy target of 2040 being a fully renewable system. Nuclear power should remain, but it is not called renewable. If you put all these different parts together so that we can have a whole system where we can rely on electricity to be there at the given time – all hours of the day, every day of the week and year round – I wonder who stands for these system support services in the network. That's our base power. Do the Social Democrats see a need for reform in the electricity market, where wind power has to bear its costs?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1563	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for the question. The honourable Member is happy to develop the question in the next line and clarify something. As far as the connection fee is concerned, we want to remove it. If we remove it and wind power at sea bears its own costs and prices fall, it is competitive electricity that is produced. It is new technology that creates balance in the system and is now being developed. It's very interesting. If we are to move towards what the Christian Democrats are very keen on, namely the construction of new nuclear power, it also creates large spaces economically in terms of different types of subsidies or guarantees. There the Christian Democrats are also guilty of the answer about how to solve it. I see that success is a renewable energy solution. As I said in previous replicas, today we received a report that by 2050 it is about 167 terawatt hours in wind power alone. This is a tremendously exciting development. While we see an increase in energy demand, I note that the budget that was passed through, which the Christian Democrats are behind and in which changes were made, removes energy efficiency improvements. You can cut at one end and add at the other end. Obviously, however, this development was not seen when you cut out 100 million dollars from the budget. When it comes to electrified transports, SEK 600 million is removed. And when it comes to energy technology, which may be part of the solution for the future, you take away half a billion dollars. I therefore think that there is something more to be done by certain parties in the Swedish Parliament before they question the removal of an accession fee.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1569	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer to my question, which was not complete. If we are to have a system that keeps all the way, and if we politicians are to keep what we promise and be clear, we know that there are also companies that are actually prepared to invest. But then the political courage must be there to tell us what is going on in the future. Then I ask the question: do the Social Democrats see a need for reform in the electricity market, where, for example, wind power will have to bear the costs that it does not bear today? We see that there will be a major problem in the future if renewables are to be cheaper than nuclear power. I don't believe it.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1572	Madam President, I would like This was very interesting. Camilla Brodin says that the business community is behind supporting the construction of nuclear power. I have heard one from the business community expressing this, and it was Jacob Wallenberg who did it in an interview a while ago. I think it's very interesting. If more people from the business community want to do so, it would be very interesting to sit down and discuss this. But we are talking about the abolition of a connection fee for offshore wind power. I do not get a response from the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals on what the financing solution for nuclear power should be. On the other hand, we have offshore and land-based wind power that bears its own costs today. There's quite a difference.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1574	Madam President, I would like Energy is perhaps the most important climate issue. Should Sweden be electrified to the extent necessary to cope with climate change, yes, then the need for electricity will increase radically within a relatively short time. This places great demands on expanded production capacity while a great deal of today's electricity generation will have reached its life expectancy already in 2045. In addition to expanding production, we need to connect the European electricity grid. We need market mechanisms to cut peak demand, and we need more efficient use of electricity. Today's electricity prices are nothing to joke about. They put investments all the way and call the transition into question. What happened is actually something of a perfect storm. Emissions prices are increasing at the same time as Putin tightens the gas tap. In addition, ice sheeting on our rivers, low wind power and non-existent solar electricity production in the system could have covered parts, of course linked to low temperatures. On top of that, we have an electricity grid war between Sweden and Norway that is allowed to continue. In addition, there is a risk that reactors will have to be shut down due to damage to fuel elements. Of course, we can't have this. But you know what? There's an alternative. The Center Party has presented its own budget which has proposals that resolve matters in the short term. We deal with the problem, lower the electricity bill and free up the capacity of the system in both the short and long term. We have proposals for solutions that other parties lack, not least in the short term. For example, we propose that the green cut that has been successful in solar cells should be extended to energy efficiency and smart-home solutions. It would lower people's electricity bills right here and now. We also want to make it more profitable for companies to make energy efficient by changing depreciation rules so that it is possible to write off such investments more quickly. This has been successful in both the Netherlands and Ireland. These are solutions that can quickly be put in place, and that is exactly what is needed. When you ask the business community what they want, when LKAB talks and Holmen and SCA discuss, they say they want three things. They want more electricity, and it should be cheap, fast and green. That's exactly what their customers are asking for. It is the three parameters that are relevant, and the policy must respond to that. The production that can be put in place fastest is the solar electricity. In practice, you can get it up tomorrow. If you're going to do it on a larger scale, it might take a year or two. Then the solar tax needs to be abolished, because it is the one that makes it unprofitable to set up larger plants on its own roof. Now someone thinks it doesn't matter in the winter. But it does. Each additional kilowatt hour makes a big difference when the price of electricity is at its highest. There are clear models of this. Had we had a significantly higher share of solar electricity in the system in recent days, we would not have had to import electricity, and prices would have dropped radically. We also see investors lining up to expand offshore wind power. There are applications for 400 terawatt hours. This is almost three times as much as all of Sweden's current electricity use. This is being built with investment funds and private capital, and it is profitable. Then, of course, we need to clear the regulations so that it can be put in place quickly, because the big problem right now is the state of affairs processes. The same applies, in fact, to the extension of electricity networks. It's going too slow. Here, the Center Party has a number of proposals to halve times. We also put money in our budget aimed at the very authorities involved in this so that they can get things in place faster. The same applies, of course, to both flexibility and storage, where systems lag behind and you can sometimes even get double taxation if you have battery bearings. These are things that can make a difference in the short and medium term, the time we really need to deliver. Nothing will happen in 10, 15 or 20 years. That's what makes a difference here and now. Sweden has had a competitive advantage with low energy prices, and that is of course something we should affirm. But there's a risk if we lag behind now and let others take the lead in this transition. When the price of solar electricity falls radically, we know that Sweden does not have the same conditions as it has in southern Europe or in the Middle East. But we can deliver a whole system that is much faster to expand and use the amazing electricity grid we actually have. In order to make use of these opportunities and become the Green Power that delivers not only electricity but also energy services to the rest of the world and processes electricity in the form of fossil-free steel, batteries and lots of other industrial products, we also need to connect the European electricity grid to a greater extent than today. We need a backup throughout the system because it creates a more cost-effective and environmentally better system. The development is hampered by several different regulations. The state processes are long. An investigation to clear the regulations and enable the energy transition needs to be completed immediately. The proposals already under investigation must be implemented by this government. It is about looking at the Species Protection Directive and ensuring that wind power is not penalised for individual species of birds rather than for entire populations. We have to do things to get the climate into the environmental code. There are things here that could be done quite quickly. Madam President, we cannot have regulations that counteract the transformation. At the moment, it is the state bureaucracy that is stopping climate change. That is totally unreasonable, and I very much hope that the new Minister for Energy and the new Minister for the Environment will listen to this debate. Obviously, there was no time to come here and discuss, but hopefully they have read our budget. There are many suggestions there that would make a difference. For example, in order to reduce the problems of local resistance, people must be given the opportunity to benefit from the benefits created. It is about the need to reduce the property tax locally. Making the right investments needs to be profitable. Today this is a problem. Especially residents who get a power grid or wind farm near their property see their property value fall. It's a threat to property rights. Those affected by it should of course be entitled to compensation. There are opportunities for this in Finland. Why isn't there in Sweden? It is, of course, unreasonable to have to wait for the transmission capacity that needs to be put in place. We know that it is needed in Oxelösund and on Gotland. There are a number of different places, not least in northern Sweden, that need more transmission. Then the government can't sit on its hands and wait for things to happen. We need action and the shovel on the slopes. That's why we want to see a planning target of at least 300 terawatt hours in the grid. It is important to focus on transmission capacity, because there is not the same willingness to invest. Here, Swedish power networks also need to be given long-term responsibility for energy supply. Finally, we need a strengthened and renewable power reserve. It is much better to have a system with a renewable power reserve than to start paying for capacity and capacity mechanisms. Anyone who doubts it can read the Swedish Enterprise's own report on capacity mechanisms. We in the Center Party stand for and are launching solutions in our budget, which, of course, I support, although in committee we chose to abstain in favour of abstaining. These solutions exist and make a difference here and now. There is no romance with old techniques or theoretical futures. These are proposals that are on the ground and that we intend to implement.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1601	Madam President and my colleagues. The hour is late, and the lights are on. We have energy so far. We are going to debate the appropriations for Category 21 Energy. It sounds strange, but I agree with most of what Rickard Nordin from the Center Party just said. You'd think you couldn't find any things that the Left Party has in common with the Center Party, but that's actually the way it is. I'm going back to the expenditure area. Since, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than I wish, I am abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 21. This does not, of course, prevent me from clarifying any differences in the draft budgets. The left-wing budget option should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation. The total proposals of the Left Party regarding the state budget can be found in our party motion number 3278. That motion was dealt with in the report of the Committee on Finance. The party's overall proposal is reflected in reservation 3 of the report of the Committee on Finance. That motion also includes a proposal for a framework for Category 21, which we are discussing today. In what the Left Party proposes, there are three different forms of support for energy supply. In comparison with the Government's proposal, the State's energy authority should have received SEK 2 billion more for 2022 to finance new support for the production of renewable electricity. This is intended for investments that promote local communities and businesses. We also believe that a new appropriation of SEK 1 billion should have been set up for the production of renewable electricity in public buildings. Many have been involved in the transmission capacity; it definitely needs to be strengthened in Sweden. There we want to improve at the local level. There should be support in the form of credit guarantees for electricity grid investments. Maybe it would cost $5 million. There's an administrative cost, and maybe there's some people who can't fix it. All in all, the Left Party's proposal had meant just over SEK 3 billion more than the government's proposal in this area of expenditure. Madam President, I would like At the final stage of the preparation of the 2022 budget bill, the representatives of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats submitted a joint draft budget, which I believe has made the budget process more difficult. The Left Party has reached an agreement with the government on future forms of cooperation. It means a substantial increase in pensions for the most deprived pensioners, an improvement in health insurance, such as the so-called Arne pension, an increase in benefits and the removal of the so-called functional tax. That is why, in the Left Party, after our own draft budget had fallen, we supported the government's draft budget in plenary before the proposal of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. I believe that the Government's proposal as a whole is better for Sweden because it has different starting points than the national conservative values contained in the proposal from the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. I also believe that Sweden needs a green and modern transformation of society that creates development and jobs throughout the country. This requires a red policy for a green transition and reforms to both restart and restructure the Swedish economy after, among other things, the coronapandemine. Efforts are needed for jobs, the climate and greater equality instead of neoliberal reforms such as privatisation – the Public Employment Service is one of them – and other market experiments that have only pulled our society apart. It is now clear to me that neoliberal economic policy affects not only equality and welfare but also growth. Instead of tax cuts, I therefore advocate substantial investments aimed at speeding up the green transition, strengthening the rural and municipal sectors, and upgrading the security and health systems. Such a policy will improve the conditions for small businesses, among others, and strengthen and expand the infrastructure and transport sector. The main objectives of the Left Party in the direction of energy policy are major reforms aimed at expanding renewable energy and transforming society from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. The climate change of the transport and industrial sector is largely achieved through electrification. I believe that there is scope in the energy sector for investments that are not only important for climate change, but also create jobs and boost the economy.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1617	Madam President, I would like Never have energy issues been so important. Not least, the knowledge and understanding of all citizens has increased, which I find very pleasant. Never before have families paid as much for their electricity as today. It has been a record record, but the fact that the price of electricity for each week has reached new peaks is certainly not charming. Just the other day, a kilowatt - hour cost $1. In southern Sweden, the shockingly high prices have become everyday, but now the price rally is starting to reflect all over Sweden. We electricity customers notice it in the wallet, but something that may be even more serious are the socio-economic consequences. Competitiveness has weakened more and more. Industrial start-ups are discontinued, and companies are postponing their investments. I can continue, Madam President. While all this is going on, the Swedish power grid is now raising the tone and warning of an increased risk of acute power shortage. In reality, this means that it may be necessary to disconnect electricity users in order to avoid a collapse in the electricity grid. At the same time Oskarshamn's nuclear power plant is flying for a possible shutdown, and in Karlshamnsverket we burn oil to keep our noses above the surface. The situation in the electricity system for winter is strained, to say the least. In addition, the climate gets quite a smock. But it is mainly the common man who sees the electricity crisis in Sweden. People notice that the electricity bill has become significantly more expensive. There are many factors that affect the price of electricity – everything from weather to commodity prices and currencies. However, this is not the whole truth. If Sweden had protected nuclear power, for which the Liberals fought, and had not shut down fully functioning fossil-free and planned electricity generation in southern Sweden, our competitiveness would have been stronger. We would then have had the opportunity to produce more fossil-free nuclear electricity that could have been delivered to customers in southern Sweden and had also pushed away the demand for fossil electricity generation on the continent by being able to export when neighbouring countries needed the electricity. Fossil-free electricity is also the major solution to climate challenges. If we are to be able to switch industry, transport and large parts of society, we will need much more fossil-free electricity. Some say twice as much as today; others say three times as much as today. In any case, there is much more electricity than we are using today. Then we must have a power system that delivers electricity when we need it and where we need it. We should be able to trust that there is electricity in the socket that we can afford to use, and it must not depend on the weather. Sweden must safeguard the Swedish energy mix with nuclear and hydropower together with renewable energy. This is how we strengthen Swedish competitiveness and really tackle climate challenges. Sweden simply needs a new focus on energy policy. Madam President, I would like Let me highlight a few parts of the Liberals' budget motion. The expansion of electricity networks is severely hampered by the fact that electricity grid owners are not paid for their investments before there is an identified need for grid reinforcement. The networks cannot therefore be extended until there is an industry that wants to establish itself or until people ask for a bigger fuse to charge the electric car. However, most cannot wait many years to join. Networks need to be able to expand based on forecasts of future demand in order to be ready when needed. The liberals propose that the electricity grid owners be offered loans from the state without interest or amortisation until the electricity users connect. The County Administrative Boards would be responsible for coordinating forecasting work locally, and the Swedish Energy Market Authority would be given the task of deciding on the amount of loans that can be granted on the basis of reasonable forecasts. We also need to strengthen electrical readiness. Society's capacity to deal with crises is enhanced by the Liberals allocating 400 million extra for 2022 to strengthen electrical readiness. The means of electrical preparedness may be used to prevent, resist and manage disturbances in the supply of electricity that can put severe pressure on society. The need for this type of resource has increased significantly in recent years. The power system in southern Sweden, especially in the far south, is severely weakened, and since the closure of Ringhals 2 at the turn of 2019/ 20, the signals that everything is not right have become more frequent. The risk of a failure in a power plant or in the electricity grid having serious consequences is far too high. Resources are therefore needed to be able to take urgent action. The fact that we liberals have been talking about the importance of nuclear energy in society all these years is that, together with hydropower, it is the only fossil-free type of energy that can be planned. It is needed, and it must be expanded to meet the societal challenges we see. Therefore, Swedish energy research needs to change course, and this is done through the Liberals' budget. The overall goal will now be to build an energy system that can deliver all the fossil-free energy required by the climate transition. The shift in approach means that nuclear energy has a given place in the future energy system. Swedish energy research has consistently avoided studying how a system with a lot of nuclear power and wind power will be as effective as possible. Paradoxically, therefore, despite the great resources devoted to energy research, we know too little about the power system that we have today and will have for the foreseeable future. Research has described a system without nuclear power, a system that we are probably not going to see. A point-by-point effort is needed to make up for what has been lost. Therefore, money is earmarked for research into nuclear energy and its role in an energy system where weather-dependent electricity generation is growing and fossil fuels are rapidly phased out. Madam President, I would like We need all the fossil-free energy production that we can produce, whether it be nuclear, hydroelectric or renewable. The energy system is for us humans. It is in order for us to be able to live good lives and for companies to be competitive. Energy policy must once again take this as a starting point. Finally, Madam President, the Liberals' draft budget is a coherent whole. Since the Parliament in the Framework Decision supported the joint proposal of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats for a financial framework for the state budget and the direction of budgetary policy, we have not taken part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1637	Madam President, I would like Let me quote Arman Teimouri a couple of times here. In his speech, the honourable Member said: Don't shut down fully functioning fossil-free electricity in southern Sweden. The honourable Member also said that we should protect the energy mix with both nuclear and hydropower. In lines with the Social Democrat, Arman Teimouri said: "S has not protected hydropower, and why does one not want to protect the Swedish electricity mix?" This is a quote from Mr Arman Teimouri. Then my question is: does this also apply to small hydroelectric power? Do the Liberals really want to protect it? The Liberals have instead joined those who actually want to dismantle small-scale hydropower. We had a committee initiative in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to ensure that the government examines the action plans submitted by the water authorities, which threaten a large part of the small-scale hydroelectric power in southern Sweden, precisely the planned and fossil-free production that Arman Teimouri claims to safeguard. But then the Liberals were against. They stood in the corner of the circle that wants to dismantle the small hydroelectric power, which thinks the action plans are good and does not want to see an appeal. How, Arman Teimouri, does this go with the quotes of yourself that I just read out?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1641	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for your question! I guess I'll get the right member. I didn't say the Social Democrats didn't protect hydropower. However, they may not have protected the Swedish energy mix. However, it is clear that we should protect all the forces that exist. Hydropower has a very important function in the Swedish energy mix, and I think that I and Rickard Nordin and everyone else in this House agree on that. Then there are various interests that need to be taken into account and listened to when it comes to expansion, whether it is wind or hydroelectric. I believe that in the future, just as now, we need to safeguard the Swedish energy mix with both water and nuclear power together with renewable energy. That is how I think we will have a strong system in the future.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1643	Madam President, I would like Now Arman Teimouri did not answer my question. Are the Liberals behind the water authorities' action plans, which also have the consequence that large parts of the small hydropower in southern Sweden will be demolished? That is my question, because there the Liberals have delivered quite the opposite message to what Arman Teimouri is now saying. He said in September in this House that he was in favour of the action plans and then voted against the committee initiative which says that the government must reconsider these plans. Have the Liberals turned now and think that we should protect hydroelectric power, or just the protection of fossil-free power, nuclear power? Let me get a straight answer, Arman Teimouri! Will the Liberals protect small-scale hydropower in southern Sweden – yes or no?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1645	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member now knows that even if a committee initiative comes, it is not necessary to support it just for the sake of the matter. One can of course have one's own policy and one's own opinion without supporting such a committee initiative. I stand by exactly what I have said. If we are to meet the climate challenges that we see in the future and manage to change society, we must safeguard the Swedish energy mix, including hydropower, wind power, renewable energy and nuclear energy. It's no harder than that.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1647	Madam President, I would like In the newspapers we read that the Liberals' party leader Nyamko Sabuni intends to raise suspicion of the new Minister for the Environment Strandhäll if she does not give notice before lucia day about how the disposal of high-level nuclear waste is to be designed. At the same time, we know that last year a result of the so-called long term storage test was partly published. Around the turn of the millennium, cast - cast - iron cylinders were dropped in the urberget outside Oskarshamn, and they were recently picked up about 20 years later. The result showed that the protective copper housing to prevent the cast iron from corrosion had rusted apart a thousand times faster than predicted by the nuclear company's theories. Do the Liberals have any research of their own that shows anything else?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1649	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for your question! I'm glad you're putting it. After all, there was a message from the Minister for Climate and Environment that she intends to give a reply on 27 January, so our little threat of mistrust remains until then. I am also pleased that the Government and the Government have now actually taken a step in the right direction. Let us remember that this project is a project that has 50 years on its neck. There's a lot of research behind it. The industry is ready, the municipality is ready and there is a great understanding among the residents. And it is precisely the research that I put the weight on. What's amazing about research is that you have different opinions. But the weight of research indicates that this is a secure system. For example, Finland has in principle copied the Swedish system in order to have its own disposal, and I see that as very positive. We must take responsibility for the next generation. I know very well, like Mr Lahti, that this is a project designed to protect a hazardous waste for up to a hundred thousand years. We hope that future nuclear power plants will actually be able to use the nuclear fuel already used and thus reduce the time to perhaps a thousand years. Finally, however, it is still a question of research having done its part. The issue is ready for decision, and now I hope that the government will also assume its responsibilities.
i-EjKAim36HdJaBSPGMpjzyb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri, for your answer. You did not answer my question if you have your own opinion, because there are tests showing that the copper capsule does not last for as many years as has been predicted. The result, which is only 20 years from now, shows that it rusts at least a thousand times faster than the nuclear company's theories showed. Finland is a great example. But Finland was the first in the world – read my lip – to make a repository. Doesn't it say anything about whether it's wise for us to stress on this or whether we're going to do further research. I agree that if we've brought this shit in, we're gonna get rid of it, but how am I not supposed to answer?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1655	Madam President, I would like I will come back to my previous answer. There are still 50 years of research in this work. It is not I who have done the research, but it is researchers who have put energy on this. Then you have to be able to trust it, too. Furthermore, it is not the case that we will be burying nuclear waste tomorrow. There will be another 20 years before you are there. During that time, I am absolutely sure that the research has come even further ahead. My hope is that the nuclear fuel already used will be able to be used more and thus reduce the final storage time. That's how we can work with the research and make sure we get a good disposal.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1656	Madam President, I would like We live in a strange and exciting time. The EU as a whole has had record high electricity prices in recent months. The worst affected are some of the countries that have a high proportion of nuclear power in their electricity mix, such as France and the United Kingdom. But almost the whole of the Union has suffered during these electricity prices. The situation shows that we in Europe have not done the homework. We have not changed our energy consumption quickly enough, which has made us dependent on Putin's gas and uranium resources. This allows him to use these assets as a means of power against the EU. To get out of this situation and, at the same time, to speed up the transition to a more sustainable energy system, there are some points that require political interference. Firstly, we need to implement powerful energy efficiency improvements in the system. There is far too little discussion about this in the energy policy debate. Energy efficiency reduces the energy dependency of both households and industry. Secondly, we need to build more renewable electricity generation. Here, in particular, offshore wind energy is the most important technology forward. Only this morning, there was a report showing that large-scale offshore wind power production is open and that it can also reduce the price of electricity radically. Madam President, I would like Now it has turned out that large parts of the opposition are opposing both of these two parts. Let's start with the wind! I've done some research myself. I've been going over how the Moderates, above all, stand up to various wind projects. To be honest, I was shocked to find out how much you're against. Baltic Offshore Delta with 20 terawatt hours and Mareld and Poseidon together with 12 terawatt hours are just a few examples of a long list of projects, with a total amount of almost 60 terawatt hours, which the Moderates object in one way or another. There's a lot of numbers when you talk about energy. Just to make it clear how much energy this is about, let me say that it corresponds to much more than the total amount of nuclear energy we have in Sweden today. There's a lot of energy the Moderates are working against. This is electricity generation that can reduce electricity prices in the near future. The Moderates have no alternative to this, which is important to remember. For example, the Moderates and the blue-browns have not set aside a single crown in their budget for nuclear power, which is instead being promoted as an alternative. Moreover, it is a lie about nuclear power. It is said that it would take seven years to expand new nuclear power in Sweden. But Sweden does not have slaves. We are not the United Arab Emirates, which have slaves when they build their nuclear power plants. That's where it takes seven years to build nuclear power plants. It does not take seven years to build nuclear power stations in Western Europe – end of story. We have high standards of safety in Sweden and Western Europe. It does not take seven years to build new nuclear power in Sweden. It's just a lie. The bottom line is that the Moderates oppose the most important technology to reduce the price of electricity. If you want a high electricity price, lend your voice to Ulf Kristersson! The second is energy efficiency. In the blue-brown budget, support for energy efficiency is cut to several billion SEK. It is partly support for industrial energy efficiency, a very popular and positive support that has been used a lot, and partly support for energy efficiency of multi-residential buildings. Now this threatens to make Sweden miss its own targets in the area of energy efficiency. In addition, it threatens to cause Sweden to lose SEK 34 billion in re-starting money from the EU. This is money that comes with the condition that you should invest a certain percentage of your reboot after the corona in green areas. We are simply running the risk of missing SEK 34 billion in money from the European Union because of the blue-brown napkin sketch. If you do not want more efficient use of electricity and thus lower electricity prices, lend your voice to Ulf Kristersson! I'll round off and tell you what I think is the future. I've already talked about the ocean wind and wind power in general. I would like to mention some of the things that need to be done forward in order for us to achieve this wind revolution, in which we are already partly involved. We need a national strategy for sea wind. We've had one of those on land. This has enabled us to have a rather powerful planned expansion on land. We also need this for our sea areas. We need sea plans that take height for a powerful expansion of the sea wind. There it is that interests must be weighed against each other. But in the plans to be presented by the government, height must be taken for us to be able to expand the sea wind. We need to get easier licensing processes going. Then it is above all the local veto that needs to be redone. We must protect local influence, but the processes must be more legal and easier to follow. The Swedish Armed Forces must also change their attitude and become more constructive in their cooperation. For this to work, both on land and at sea, we need local acceptance. This means that money needs to go back to the municipalities and that those who live near the wind turbines should receive compensation for it. Solar energy is so far a small part of Sweden's electricity production, but it is very important. Above all, it is something that will grow and should grow much in the future. We need to be better at promoting local share-owned solar energy. We need to support the solar heat, which is a very good complement linked to the heating system. Energy efficiency, I've been talking about current support. We also need strong legislation that drives energy efficiency. The easiest way is to create a market. We need a quota system at national level for energy efficiency. We also need to be much more flexible in our use of electricity for this to work in the long term. The sun doesn't always shine. The wind doesn't always blow. Then we must find ways to combine new renewable electricity production with, for example, storage methods and more flexible use. If you want a cheaper and more efficient energy system with renewable energy in the future, you should instead lend your voice to the Green Party. Then you get this. We get policies that change our society in a sustainable direction. I agree with the specific opinion.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1673	Madam President, I would like Lorentz Tovatt talks about the need to build more renewable electricity production. I agree. The production that is fastest to build and with virtually no resistance at all locally is the solar electricity. Lorentz Tovatt also pointed out that he wants to see share ownership and investments in solar heat. We all agree on that. But here comes the big one, Madam President. The budget put forward by the Green Party is actively opposed to what the industry says would make the greatest difference. The government of the Green Party was introduced and the Green Party budget still contains the tax that the former spokesperson of the Green Party called the idiot tax. It's the tax on larger solar installations. Although the electricity is used for their own use, they are subject to tax. It hampers municipalities and regions that are a single legal entity that have to take a number of different subscriptions and other things. What is so exciting is that it is argued that it is the European Union, as has been said, that we must introduce that tax. But very few other European countries even have such a tax. Those who have it have a significantly higher ceiling than the 500 kilowatts that Sweden has. In the Center Party's budget, that tax is, of course, abolished. We have been against it all along and will be so until the idiot tax is abolished. My question to Mr Lorentz is: how can the Green Party justify this tax? Why is it still in your budget?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1678	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for the question. Rickard Nordin knows that we agree on this issue. The Green Party has been pushing for this treasure to disappear completely. I think it was introduced in a way that was probably a bit tricky. We were probably fooled into believing that it was required of the European Union. Then there are some indications that Swedish electricity taxation is generally different from that in the rest of the EU. Nevertheless, there are some bureaucrat arguments for having such a tax. That said, I'm the first person to sign off on it. The Green Party has raised the ceiling for that tax several times in government, twice if I remember correctly. Our ambition is for the roof to disappear completely and for us to get rid of it completely. That is by far the most reasonable. For example, if you have a warehouse and use the electricity yourself, you should not have to pay taxes. That's perfectly reasonable. The bottom line is that as soon as possible every day of the week I sign it. Then there are other games that are not as eager for it. Moreover, there are bureaucrats who claim that it is absolutely necessary. A few times we've been able to wrestle down the bureaucrats a bit. Unfortunately, we haven't made it all the way. But I'm happy to do it again.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1684	Mrs. talm a n! The Green Party has long felt that this tax should be abolished. It was the Green Party that was involved in introducing this treasure. It has not been under any government other than that of the Green Party. Perhaps it can also be found under the current one, which so far has not presented its own budget. The Green Party has not removed it either. To say that you are against a tax that you yourself have been involved in introducing does not add up, Lorentz Tovatt. The fact that you have done it a little less bad is not a defense. Other countries in Europe do not have these taxes. Is Sweden governed by bureaucrats, to which the Green Party referred, or by politics and government? Who is actually in charge of the Swedish Green Party? How can you still defend the fact that you have not taken away a tax that you claim to be against? That makes no sense to me, Madam President.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1687	Madam President, I would like It's gonna be really stupid. Rickard Nordin knows exactly how ruling works and how the department works. He himself has presented several budgets for this term of office with solar tax in it. It's super silly to stand here and pretend it's a giant big deal that the Green Party would run this treasure, which we certainly don't. We are very much against it, as I have said several times here. It is a game for the galleries from Rickard Nordin when, instead, he himself has presented a budget in this House with solar taxes several times.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1688	Madam President, I would like I wasn't planning on taking a line. But it almost seems that it is the Moderates who have put forward the environmental policy and energy policy that is now in place. Lorentz Tovatt refers to the Moderates all the time. It seems Lorentz Tovatt forgets that he has been in government for seven and a half years. That is the effect we now see from the policies that have been pursued. That's a lot of support policy. You talk about expanding more sun and wind. There's no problem with that. It is often said that we export 25 terawatt hours a year. It's just when the sun shines and it blows that we export. It is not now that we have a shortage of electrical energy that we need the wind. It wouldn't help a thing. This doesn't make any sense. I would like Lorentz Tovatt to take part in all the nuclear seminars also organised in Parliament or to take a study trip and look at nuclear power. But the Green Party is never there. It has focused entirely on its hypothesis of how energy policy should be managed. Then you don't look at any other technology at all. Lorentz Tovatt is creepyly unaware of what the world looks like. Camilla Brodin and I have been to the United Arab Emirates on a study trip looking at the very building of new nuclear power. Excuse me, but there are well-paid American engineers building there. It's not slaves walking around. There are highly qualified well-educated people from all over the world who are there building nuclear power. I would recommend that he look there. Then there is the question of the municipalities being run over. One principle would be that every municipality that consumes energy would create its own energy. I would like to see the day that Södermalm will take responsibility for its wind power expansion. It must be respected that people live in neighbouring areas. I think there is an arrogance in this policy.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1695	Madam President, I would like I am immensely proud of our seven years of government. Just look at the results. The explosion of wind power in Sweden is a fantastic achievement for which the Green Party has been involved. The reason I focused a little on the Moderates in my speech is that the Moderates are the greatest threat to the policies that we have pursued over the past seven years in a very effective way. I do not really know what to say about the United Arab Emirates. Surely it is not up to me to have comments on other Members' study visits. Maybe I wouldn't have gone to the United Arab Emirates anyway and listened to their prophecies about the din and the date. There are even criticisms that are usually directed at influencers who can be invited to the United Arab Emirates in different ways. I wouldn't do that. It's hard to judge others. But I think it's a little weird. If it is the case that the United Arab Emirates use slaves, I do not think they would have shown it to Lotta Olsson. I do not believe that the United Arab Emirates would have shown and said: this is the workforce of our nuclear power plants. On the other hand, it is widely known what the working conditions in these countries are like for those who come there and are visiting. That is one of the reasons why I myself had chosen to refuse that type of trip and that type of study visit. There is a great deal to be said about how terrible working conditions are for the guest workers who come there and work under slave-like conditions. Let's guess it's not slaves working at the nuclear power plants. Nevertheless, Western Europe has different standards and other requirements, which means that it does not take seven years to build a nuclear power plant. All the examples that exist right now point to that.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1702	Madam President, I would like If Lorentz Tovatt does not want to go to the United Arab Emirates on a study trip funded by the student money we have– we have certainly not been invited– it would be enough to attend one of the lectures held and acquire some factual knowledge about nuclear energy and the possibilities of using spent nuclear fuel and making it less harmful. That would be very useful. In addition, I am a little provoked by this that we should be opponents of wind power. I myself have had shares in wind turbines for 20 years, and I cannot say that you would have it if you were opposed to wind power. But I also see the potential of wind power as one thing and the potential of base power as something completely different. You have to be a realist, Lorentz Tovatt. I don't think this technology is enough as it looks today.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1705	Madam President, I would like It seems that the difference between the moderate and the environmental partisan energy policy is that the moderate is in the United Arab Emirates or in study circles and seminars while the environmental partisan is in reality. In reality, it takes 20 years to build a nuclear power plant in Western Europe. Just look at Finland, France and the United Kingdom! It's projects after projects that won't take seven years to build. It's very clear. I choose to live my political life in reality rather than sit at seminars and listen to lobbyists or, for that matter, to go to the United Arab Emirates and listen to fictional scenarios about how possible it is to build nuclear power in a short time when you have slave labor or various types of safety relief for nuclear power plants. Perhaps that is the big difference between moderate and environmental partisan energy policy.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1708	Madam President, I would like Let us see if there is anything left to discuss; the debate is lively! I would like to begin by asking the Moderates to endorse the committee's proposal in the report on Category 21 Energy. There is no area in Swedish politics where government and opposition policies now differ as much as in energy. We have a government that has an almost completely factually resistant attitude to the massive problems and challenges we face, and we have an opposition that despairs and loudly speaks of this and raises proposals. Madam President, I would like This is no wonder, for access to electricity has been and is one of the most important factors behind Sweden's development into one of the world's leading welfare nations. It is something that no party has declared that it wants to abstain, or have I missed something? With an electricity grid from the 1950s and 1960s with long-standing maintenance and expansion debts, changes in energy sources are trying to balance the effect between wind and solar hours. It is an electricity grid whose infrastructure is adapted to the previously abandoned nuclear power plants and to an industry using fossil fuels. Madam President, I would like The fact that one does not realise the massive challenge that this entails, while electrification of transport and industry for the sake of the climate is progressing with enthusiasm that only the Swedish industry can mobilise, is frightening. In fact, if I were a government representative, I would be ashamed and intimidated by what has been achieved, or indeed not achieved, during the seven-year reign. Maintaining government power at all costs and tying up previous industrial and job ambitions should be painful. Madam President, I would like It should be painful that the entire Swedish people now see clearly what a Social Democratic government is willing to sacrifice to sit in the pots of power and see who has paid the price: the Swedish people, with rising prices and reduced national competitiveness. Now we see that it is not only companies that have to pay painfully high electricity bills; also individuals will have to pay thousands in increased electricity prices this winter. It's about those who can pay. Some will instead have to ration their electricity consumption. The climate challenge of reducing CO2 emissions to zero, preferably, is a huge challenge. Only through smart and forward-looking policies is this possible. But having a high tailings on Norrland's fantastic development, where fossil-free production of steel is at hand, and then putting the southern part of the country in an electric crisis because electricity is not enough for all the ambitious projects it has initiated, can make any engineer sleepless. But the government is asleep! Madam President, I would like We need to make the best use of the entire toolbox of electricity and energy production and the whole toolbox of smart consumption. We need to do it quickly, and we need to make it clear. We need to protect Swedish hydropower, both small-scale and large-scale. Hydropower is and will be crucial to balance the weather-dependent wind and solar power. Authorisation tests must take into account the important role of hydropower. There is an imminent risk that the necessary environmental tests now being carried out by hydroelectric power will otherwise lead to a radical reduction in the availability of hydroelectric power, which jeopardises our entire energy supply. Madam President, I would like Last year's massively expanded wind power requires more planned energy, such as water and nuclear power. It is not possible to balance either wind power or solar energy with today's technology; we can only do that with hydropower and nuclear power. It doesn't blow all the time, and the sun doesn't always shine. Madam President, I would like In fact, a significant increase in wind power production means that nuclear electricity in the system must also be increased. The fact that, despite strong protests from us in opposition, the government did not prevent the suspension of Ringhals l and 2 prematurely before the end of life was irresponsible. Now we have to start new nuclear power. Madam President, I would like But it seems that the love of the barely 4 percent of the Swedish people who voted for the Green Party is so great that the government lets the rest of the population freeze for this inexplicable love. Their policy with your Social Democrats does not protect the environment. This is no less CO2 emissions when the power plant in Karlshamn, which consumes 140 000 litres of oil per hour, is being run instead. It is a power plant that is intended as the ultimate reserve power and is now used only because we have normal winter temperatures. If we are to tackle the challenge of the electricity crisis, we urgently need to develop a plan for the expansion of nuclear power. An extension should first take place where the old works were located and where the electricity grids are located. Furthermore, it should be a plan for later to initiate the new nuclear technology that is now being developed in the world. Interested investors exist if the will and vision of politics is clear. The government must also take on board the decision on disposal, which is another leaven. The regulatory and regulatory framework for licensing processes of new nuclear technologies needs to be drawn up as soon as possible. The climate requires a change now, not later. We owe it to all our children and young people. We need to show that we are serious about the climate challenge and that it is not something we find out about. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a unique chance to switch its energy production to fossil-free, and that is also the priority objective. The goal should not be entirely renewable, because then we will miss the climate targets. What we lack in the report is the investment in biogas through support to get started with profitable production. But that investment, of 500 million for next year, is included in the Environment and Agriculture Committee's budget. We have the same framework for Swedish power grids as the government, but we want Swedish power grids to act more proactively to increase trading capacity in the core network so that it is closer to physical capacity. The wires must be used as efficiently as possible. Madam President, I would like After the elections, Sweden deserves a new government with a responsible climate and energy policy.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1730	Madam President, I would like Almost 60 terawatt hours—these are the projects that the Moderates are working against. This is much more than the existing nuclear power in Sweden today. I will list some actors: LKAB, SSAB, Vattenfall, Hybrid project, H2GS, Holmen, Ovako, SCA, Jernhusen, the heavy industry. These are actors that the Moderates usually go hand in hand with and whose activities they usually facilitate in different ways. These are actors that everyone wants this power generation. They yearn for cheap, renewable electricity that they can produce steel from which they can resell with a renewable stamp on. They want the renewable stamp. They want to be able to say to their customers: This is renewable steel. Now the Moderates do not want to give all these actors what they really want: renewable, cheap electricity production. I wonder: What do the Moderates say to H2GS, to Holmen, to Ovako, to SCA and to Jernhusen when they justify their opposition to cheaper electricity production, to renewable electricity generation, to offshore wind power and to land-based wind power? Why does the Swedish industry not want to provide renewable and cheap electricity?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1734	Madam President, I would like I haven't seen the statistics, but these 60 terawatt hours must be about municipalities that have refused permission to expand wind power. That must be how Lorentz Tovatt brought it out. This is not a decision we take at national level. It is also extremely important for us not to do so. We don't run over municipalities and talk about a wind farm here. In this case, Stockholm, for example, would have a large wind farm to be self-sufficient. Maybe it wouldn't be so much fun for people who live there. Consensus must be sought with the local population. That is also what is being done where nuclear power is established. In Forsmark, for example, there is 90% support in the population for the final disposal of nuclear fuel there. You can't have a dictatorship state on the altar of climate. Nor is that true, for there are already 25 terawatt hours of wind power that we export, which is often boasted of. Why not use these for a start? It is not easy to produce a surplus, and that is how it can be used. There is really no such thing as a fresh product as electrical energy. It's worse than the fridge. You really have to consume it right after you produce it. It can't be stored until tomorrow. We still don't have the technology. Now a huge amount of battery plants are being built, and we are talking about generating the energy into hydrogen. But so far we have no cheap, smart technology that can cover the enormous needs. I think it's terrible when you want to run over local self-government. This clearly shows that the Green Party does not see local self-government at all as important, but that this is the most important thing. Then I say: why has it not been possible to convince the population that this is a terrible idea? After all, there is support in some places for both wind power and nuclear power.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1738	Madam President, I would like I hope that everyone noticed two things here: On the one hand, the Moderates want to fight cheap, renewable electricity generation that can generate electricity prices that are competitive for the Swedish business community, and on the other hand they want to force on Sweden expensive electricity production in the form of new nuclear power. Lotta Olsson spent much of her speech talking about how the Moderates want to push forward new nuclear power in Sweden. It is therefore electricity generation that is more expensive and will lead to higher electricity prices. The combination of countering cheap electricity generation and forcing expensive electricity production is a toxic cocktail for the price of electricity. When we are now debating for a period of record high electricity prices, the Moderates want to make it worse – partly for Swedish households and partly for Swedish industry. They will simply receive higher electricity prices. It is the Moderates' recipe for Swedish energy policy.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1740	Madam President, I would like Just like I said, this is a fresh product. If Lorentz Tovatt produces a lot of electrical energy right now and I need it tomorrow, it's worth nothing. The 25 terawatt hours we export have been given at a time when we did not need them. That is what is still the dilemma of renewable wind and solar power – we cannot store it. We're for all kinds of technology, but we can't keep on producing electricity that we can't use. We can also look at a life cycle perspective. If Lorentz Tovatt were to attend one of the lectures or seminars on the subject that are in fact often held here in Parliament looking at life cycle cost analyses, he would be told that nuclear power is not more expensive. For it is very much wasted time when the wind turbines stand and it does not blow, and it costs as well.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1742	Madam President, I would like We heard Lotta Olsson talking about all the tools in the toolbox need to be used. She talked about hydropower and nuclear power as planned power. I am a little surprised that Lotta Olsson then completely forgets the cogeneration, which is perhaps one of the most important things we have, not least in southern Sweden, and which also relieves the need for electricity very clearly. But it is common for only hydropower and nuclear power for the Moderates. Lotta Olsson also talks very well in many ways that we need a lot more electricity, but she forgets that much of the additional use of electricity is flexible. When making fossil-free steel, for example, you do not need electricity 24:7. What you're supposed to do is hydrogen, and the hydrogen can be stored. That's why you want to use electricity when it's cheap and there's a lot. That is why companies like Ovako, SSAB, LKAB and H2 Green Steel talk about what can be achieved quickly, i.e. wind power. That's what they want. There, Lotta Olsson also said it very well: the climate cannot wait. We need to act now and not then. Then you have to do what can be done now and not then. I guess this is where it gets problematic. We see that the Moderates around Sweden say no to these establishments. We have investors waiting to build, and the Moderates say no. Lotta Olsson talks about Stockholm not being able to cope with its electricity supply. It would have been great. It could have been a project out in Sandhamn, 50 km from the coast, which now the Moderates in Stockholm County say no to. Then I'll be a little curious. What does Lotta Olsson want to do? She says that you should not run over the population, and I agree with that as a center party of course. But what does Lotta Olsson want to do to facilitate this expansion and increase local acceptance? At the moment, the Moderates are acting just the opposite, whipping up an opinion against this. What concrete steps should be taken to improve the ability to build wind power?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1747	Madam President, I would like I do not feel at all that we are whipping up any atmosphere against wind power. We are for all types of power sources, but it is important that there is a local anchoring and acceptance. Of course, areas must also be chosen. These may, for example, be some of Europe's last quiet areas. Is it appropriate that we then perhaps put large wind turbines there? And what about natural values in relation to other values? I do not like fundamentalism at all or environmental fundamentalism either. I believe that we must be wise and seek consensus. Wind power can be found in areas where it does not disturb or out at sea, but then you also have to finance your own cables. That's great. I apologize for not mentioning cogeneration. Just as Rickard Nordin says, it is also a great source. Sweden has a lot of infrastructure to use district heat that is not available in other countries. The Americans say: You are so socialist that you have common heating systems. Yes, and in fact it may be good that we have been socialist so that we can be effective in this area. I think there's a lot of waste heat you can use. We also need to make things more efficient. But it is not Rickard Nordin and my washing machine that is the big problem; it is that we should change our entire heavy industry and our entire transport system that is the dilemma. It is also not energy for Hybrid in Norrland that is the problem, as I said, but energy for southern Sweden. That is why this is not true of sending wind power up to Norrland. That is not the big problem, but how we get energy to areas 3 and 4.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1751	Madam President, I would like The Moderates say that you are for all kinds of power, but that is not in Gävle, in Kävlinge or in Stockholm. In Stockholm we are talking about an offshore park 50 miles off the coast. It's barely visible. It does not affect quiet areas. Yes, it affects the quiet area at sea, but there are no people there. Who is it you really want to protect? I wonder: What will the Moderates do to improve the possibilities if you are now for all kinds of power? The only thing I heard Lotta Olsson talk about was that you don't want to give support to offshore wind power. Can we also promise that there will not be a levy on subsidies for nuclear power? Because that would have to be the same for all power strokes. I have two questions. Can Lotta Olsson promise that the Moderates will not subsidise nuclear power at all? And what will the Moderates do to increase local acceptance – can one, for example, support the Center Party's proposal that the property tax should go back in order to also benefit locally?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1754	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. We have not said that yet, but it is a proposal that we are considering. If you harden Rickard Nordin's hypothesis that one should actually be able to decide from the state side, we could say that a small power plant at Södermalm would be perfect. You would have to have very little infrastructure, there are many consumers there and it would be a fantastically good and secure system. But I don't think we could do it without people being against it. Then what's the difference? In fact, many forces have killed more people than nuclear power has done. Nuclear power is the force that has killed the least number of people. Coal power, other fossil power and wind power have killed more people statistically. I am very much against this kind of bullying against people. I think we need to work on acceptance.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1757	Madam President, I would like I feel that I would have needed to have extended the reply time to answer and ask questions about Lotta Olsson's speech. First of all, I would like to comment on the speech in which Lotta Olsson said that she would be ashamed to be part of a government party which is in favour of this energy policy. It's just the opposite. During the time of the Alliance, we imported electricity into the country. Today we export 25 terawatt hours. This creates thousands of jobs, not least in northern Sweden where we have low electricity prices and surplus electricity. I'm proud of that. I am also proud of the development that is taking place now with more wind turbines on land and the possibility of the same at sea. I am also proud of the solar power which, during the time we have ruled, has set the Swedish electricity mix in motion. I note that nuclear power is highlighted in Lotta Olsson's speech and note that there is not a single crown for nuclear energy in the budget that has been put through and which you have contributed to. We have heard from other speakers here from the Moderates that they are opposed to sea wind power. I think the Moderates are responsible for the answer as to what electricity consumption we should have in the future in our country. In addition, I would like to ask Lotta Olsson a question. The budget that goes through takes away money that would go towards energy efficiency. That's 100 million being pulled away. 600 million to electrification of transport is being taken away. 500 million are being torn away from energy technology. My question is, where does this money go?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1762	Madam President, I would like We have a slightly different view of the budget in general. We believe that if politics shows that it believes in nuclear power and in new technologies that can make waste less dangerous, it is a steering year to want to invest. But if you say that you are setting this up and then see, just as you are doing with the disposal of nuclear waste, it is clear that no one wants to spend a lot of money even if it will pay off in a 40-year period. I do not understand that the Social Democrats do not understand that. Energy policy has changed a great deal. I must say that ten years ago I did not believe in the enormous explosion of electrification that is now coming. You have to be quick to keep up. Swedish automotive industry and Swedish industry draw the locomotive, and so the politics comes after and tries to patch and fix where there are dilemmas. We can't have that. We must be proactive, and then you cannot have blind spots and believe that it is only wind and solar power, for example, that should be used. We need to look at all kinds of energy sources. It was not Mattias Jonsson but Lorentz Tovatt who talked about this, but I would like to know if you have looked at how all solar cells are produced and whether it is in a democracy. China's factories may not be so fun to watch. It's easy to moralize certain things, but if you're going to moralize, you're going to do it all the way. There's a lot about this that can be difficult. If politics shows that this is something you believe in and want to invest in, you must not say: we shall see. No one wants us-sheep-see relationships, whether you're in politics or anything else. You have to say, we believe in this, and we want this. That is why Hybrid has succeeded.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1766	Madam President, I would like That is precisely the clarity and the information that is needed, and it is also the information that I expect to be given on the question of where the money is put instead. I didn't hear the answer to that question. Lotta Olsson will have the opportunity to answer that question again, and she is happy to add an answer to why there is not a single crown in the budget for nuclear power. We have heard in this debate that the Moderates have actively opposed sea wind power while calling for nuclear power, but there is no money in the budget. How does this make sense?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1768	Madam President, I would like It's true. We want the Powers Act to finance itself. On the other hand, we want research money where nuclear energy is to be included, just like other power plants. Now I have to admit one thing, and that is that we have prioritised police officers in our budget. That is why we have not prioritised aid schemes for energy policy, but it must fund itself there. However, it is not the case that we are missing some EU money as we have removed funds. There was some previous debater who raised it. In fact, I have raised it with the Energy Authority, and we are not losing any EU money that we would otherwise have received because we do not fund certain things. So I am not so worried about this. Our vision for the future is that we believe in all kinds of power, protect them and see that we need to expand this. It means a lot, and I wish Mattias Jonsson would see it too.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1772	Madam President, I would like I think I'll make it easy for Lotta Olsson to answer. We had an Energy Commission that led to an energy settlement. There were the Moderates. It was based on the fact that nuclear power could even be expanded in Sweden, without support of course. The Moderates often talk about long-term rules of play. They are important because they make the players dare to invest and take these steps. The energy agreement was concluded on 10 June 2016. The Left Party was not there, and there was a reason for it. But the Moderates and Christian Democrats joined this energy arrangement. Three and a half years later, the Moderates chose to leave the energy settlement. What are the long-term rules of play for the Moderates?
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1775	Madam President, I would like The fact that we left the energy agreement is very painful for us too. But if we realise that this will lead to what we are actually seeing now, we cannot remain in the boat because we have settled with Birger Lahti and Mattias Jonsson and cannot change this. A great deal has happened, and we have not seen that with the agreement we then made we would be able to do the job. Then you have to tear it up. If you don't see the same future scenario, it won't work. It might not be a big problem with Birger Lahti and Mattias Jonsson. But you have other cooperation parties, which sit a little higher in this House and have a completely different view of things. We have a responsibility. If we do not believe in politics, we cannot allow the Swedish people to pay a price, just because three and a half years ago we believed in something else. I would not have thought that only during the time that I have been in committee would we go from thinking that we would need 180 megawatt hours to now being up to double what we have today. We're going to have 280 or maybe 300 megawatt-hours of electrical energy. It takes something quite different from what it was like three and a half years ago. I don't know if Birger Lahti thinks you should stand and walk right into the wall or if you actually have to change your politics. That's what it looks like all the time. The world around us is changing a lot, and we are integrating with Europe. We have to make it through the competition. If we don't, we're all gonna have to pay for it. For example, inflation is now rising as energy prices rise. It will undermine both pensions and wages. I do not think it is responsible to support a policy that is no longer believed in.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1781	Madam President, I would like I can help Lotta Olsson with that it should be terawa t hours. Nothing has changed since you joined. You can repeat a lie until everyone thinks it's a truth. You have repeatedly said that the government parties are closing down operating nuclear power plants. But that's not true. It is not politics but market forces that have closed those reactors. But it never comes up. You have said all along, especially when you left, that it is the word, renewables, that disturbs and that no one dares to invest. Now you have received a text in the grant 1:4 Energy research that the decision means
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1785	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti! We will certainly try to promote it. It is extremely important that we get investors. The Swedish people should not pay this by other means than the electricity bill. We cannot have a subsidy system on the energy side; it must fund itself. A great deal has changed, and the world has changed a lot. We can look at France and Germany, which have chosen two very different routes. When we discuss it, we also see France and Germany in different ways. It is important that we manage both our competitiveness and to restrain ourselves from foreign power and that we do not become dependent. There's a lot of important stuff in this. Nor can we set up wind turbines so that the Swedish defence cannot defend us against an invasion. I'm not ready to go that far. Then I'd rather take a cold shower.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1788	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the proposal in the report that we are now debating, on Category 21 Energy. This is the first time ever that the Swedish Democrats have no reservation or specific opinion in this report. This is because, two weeks ago, the Riksdag voted through the budget that we have presented together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. In the context of the report, there is above all a clarification of the purpose of the appropriations available here. In the past, the government has narrowed down energy policy by having its weight on renewable energy, which excludes nuclear energy in particular. This will change when Parliament adopts the proposal in the report and replaces words such as Perhaps this is particularly true of the allocation for energy research. The purpose of the government has been to promote the development of technologies based on renewable energy sources. This has not contributed to the fact that the Swedish Energy Agency has been able to allocate funds for nuclear research or at least maintain it as an argument, despite announcements from the Riksdag. The Government has chosen to limit itself to including it in the regulatory letters issued to the Swedish Energy Agency but not in the purpose of the grant. That will now change. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in an energy crisis, a crisis for which the government is very much responsible because of a poorly managed energy policy. The Social Democrats have allowed the Green Party to have an impact on its eagerness to shut down nuclear power. From the peaks of the summer we have now entered a colder weather and have been able to see old price records beat every week. Prices have at times been at a completely unsustainable level in just the past week. If it continues along this path with a volatile price picture and if it for a longer period of time settles at high levels, it will be difficult to see any electrification wave take off. Some industries may be able to be flexible. But for many others there is no such possibility. Rather, it directly affects their competitiveness. For households in southern Sweden, this also means that several thousands go to additional costs for electricity bills to pay. In the newspapers we have been able to read about tips to households from the energy industry and other commentators about being happy to put away some money for the electricity bill that comes in January. We will soon see widespread concepts such as energy poverty in Sweden as well. It may be a class question when it comes to what kind of heating you have and what you can afford. We have not seen that development before. It is something that has been seen down on the continent in the wake of Energiewende and similar fantasies about fully renewable power systems. A strong contributor to the extremely high electricity prices in southern Sweden is the fact that over a relatively short period of time half of the nuclear reactors that have existed in Sweden have been shut down, without expanding electricity production in southern Sweden to the same extent to compensate for the loss of power. The government has obviously not reflected on why they have been located near our metropolitan areas, where the consumers of electricity are located. They have been built close to consumers to ensure that the need for transmission capacity is minimised and to build the most efficient power system possible. It shouldn't come as a surprise. But now we see the consequences of when you don't understand that fact. Nor should the lack of impact when the need is greatest come as a direct surprise. We must have a production apparatus that reasonably correlates with when we need electricity and with the fact that we can produce electricity when we want to use it. This is where the progress is going in the wrong direction. We tend to do the opposite, to increasingly produce electricity when we do not need it, and when we need it we have power shortages. It is a problem that the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly pointed out and raised in this House. The power balance is a measure of how well we manage to support ourselves on electricity in Sweden during the winter, and it is calculated annually by the Swedish power grid. Throughout the period that the Red-Green Government, now the Red Government, has been in power, the balance of effects has continuously deteriorated. It has gone from reassuring to non-existent margins to slipping down to negative figures in Sweden for the first time since the 1970s. It has also become so bad that it is not enough to look over this situation only during the winter. Now we make operational safety analyses of our electricity supply even in summer time. We've never done that before. This very lack of understanding is one of the main reasons why this government is unable to solve the problems. This applies not least to the electrification that is now under way, and where it is expected that demand for electricity will increase significantly. With the price levels that we now have, there will be a very limited possibility of electrification. Instead, one must be happy for those parts of the energy-intensive industry that will be possible to maintain in southern Sweden. What do you need to do in the energy policy that the Swedish Democrats want to see and that we think is needed in Sweden to get the electrification going? It is to have an understanding that we must be able to obtain electricity during all hours of the year at reasonable prices. The costs must be taken into account from a system perspective, not only for electricity production itself, but also for the demand for expanded transmission capacity, in system support services and to ensure that this together leads to the lowest costs for the final consumer. For these reasons, we are convinced that a sustainable transition is needed where nuclear power, together with hydro power, is a base that can be complemented by a certain amount of weather-dependent power generation but which, however, should be balanced by it. As far as nuclear power is concerned, it is in the near future a matter of deciding to proceed with both admissibility and final disposal permits in order to secure the existing nuclear power. We must also invest in nuclear research and remove the regulatory barriers that exist so that we can develop and build new nuclear power in Sweden and plan for the next generation of nuclear power. For hydroelectric power, it must be ensured that it is not torn out unnecessarily when new modern environmental conditions are introduced. Instead, we need to make use of the effect and balances that have been made in the past when exploiting the industrial interest. This will be much needed if we are to integrate weather-dependent power generation. The power heat is the planned power generation available. It is about strengthening the competitiveness of power and district heating, which was included in the energy agreement developed by certain parties. However, we have only seen the intention of penalising it with the waste incineration tax, which undermines competitiveness. Wind power has been discussed in the debate. For it, it is very much about social sustainability, which is not enough. There is local resistance that can be linked to its impact on people's everyday lives. It will not be made easier by the fact that we want to restrict or restrict local self-determination and make it more difficult for elected assemblies closest to the citizens to take decisions and send out signals about it from this House. Instead, it is a question of paying a reasonable compensation for the interventions, including visual ones, which means locally in the local environment. This must be set against other interests that may exist at local level. Perhaps the most important thing is transmission capacity, especially in view of the closure of planned power generation. Transfer capacity needs to be expanded. It must be speeded up, and it is mainly a question of shortening the processing times. If you listen to what is said here, there is an explicit will for this. However, we have still not made much progress with the proposals contained in the online concession investigation carried out by the government. Other debaters have been in the electricity market and how we will build new nuclear power or in different ways stimulate the expansion of planned power generation. It is a lot about developing the electricity market. Today's market is based on the price of energy, which has clearly been delivered. However, it has not been possible to deliver the required power adequacy or system support services. It is clear that the policy must land in pricing the benefits needed for us to have a functioning power system in the future as well. Then, of course, you should also be able to get paid for the benefits that you deliver and that other power types do not have the ability to deliver. Overall, this will mean that the market will be able to take care of and deliver those pieces of the future energy system. If we are to start taking steps in this direction, we in the Swedish Democrats are absolutely convinced that it is first also necessary for the government to be replaced.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1807	Madam President, I would like It is always interesting to listen to Mattias Bäckström Johansson – he is a well-read member – although we do not always share the conclusions. One view that we actually share and which I think is worth highlighting is that you should receive compensation locally for the impact that is taking place. I think that is wise for many reasons. It is not least a question of strengthening property rights. If you have a local influence, you should also receive compensation for it. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that this should go regionally. However, I have not heard anything about compensation for local residents, i.e. those who are not landowners but who still have an impact. This is something that the Center Party has proposed, and I would like to hear what Mattias Bäckström Johansson and the Swedish Democrats think about it. That was my first question. My second question is this: in the media it has been clear that the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, among other things, have discussed energy issues within the framework of their joint talks. It has resulted in a couple of debate articles and a few other things. I am therefore curious if Mattias Bäckström Johansson raises the questions about local compensation in these talks. If so, what has been the response? We do not see a trace of it in the budget from SD, M and KD which is now going through. I wonder whether these are just empty words from the Swedish Democrats or whether there is something that will eventually come.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1811	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that the big thing for wind power is about improving social sustainability and working with incentives rather than going forward with restrictions on municipal self-determination or trying to impose these decisions on people. In fact, it may be that an elected assembly is forced to make illegal decisions because it states in a master plan that there is a stated interest in wind power and that, according to law, it must not say no to it. That would be a bad way to go. We have been highlighting the issues of compensation for a long time. The existing rural area could be partially regulated. But this also applies, above all, to property taxes, which should actually be linked to all industrial properties. They need to be redirected in order to create incentives that can be worked with through exploitation in the municipalities. If you direct it to the municipalities, it would be very wrong according to the models we have looked at. However, there is a need to create incentives for the new industrialisation that we see in Sweden. We do not run any proposals for compensation models for those who are more indirectly affected in the vicinity of an establishment, but we do want to investigate the impact of this on property prices. It should also be linked to other interests. We are prepared to take a closer look at how this could be done. It is reasonable that we will have a large expansion of electricity grids. There, the replacement issue will also be most relevant as a lubricant to enable the necessary expansion if we are to succeed in electrification. Reasonable compensation must then be provided to landowners and, in substance, those closest to them. As far as the budget is concerned, it is a product which has been negotiated over a relatively short period. It aims at a broader societal problem with the insecurity that exists around the country with shootings on open streets and the need to strengthen police and judicial systems. These are the pieces that have been in focus for the moment.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1815	Madam President, I would like That the property tax on industrial properties should be able to go back locally is something SD has been inspired by the Center Party model. It's welcome. We like to see more games fetch inspiration from our models and also implement them. The challenge here is that even before the budget discussion there were talks between SD, M and KD. My question was, therefore, whether these issues have been raised in the talks. If so, what was the response? We can see that none of this has been reflected in the budget. Mattias Bäckström Johansson seems to say that it is more important to combat gang crime than to have an energy supply expanded. This is a way to increase acceptance for an extension. I therefore think that Mattias Bäckström Johansson makes a bad priority, because it is possible to do both things at the same time. We show this in our budget. I will return to my question: What do Mattias Bäckström Johansson and the Swedish Democrats really get for hearing? Is the question even a matter of priority? This is not reflected in the budget, nor in any other talks.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1819	Madam President, I would like Let's check out who proposed this first and get to the bottom of what it looks like. For a long time, the Swedish democrats have been pursuing such proposals, not only those linked to industrial property tax and wind power, but also to compensate landowners for landmines. This applies whether it is wind power or electricity lines. Initially, we made our own draft budget. There we showed what priorities we wanted to make. Then there was a limited time when we could look at what priorities we wanted to do together with the limited space available. At the time, security issues with the police and a strengthened judiciary were an important priority, as was also a reduction in fuel taxes for those living in rural areas who depend on the car in their daily lives. They can't take the subway to work or let the kids go to school by bus. They have to take the car. We believe that this is a priority. It has also been important to reduce the tax burden on pensions and strengthen the economic conditions of older people.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1821	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Pure, fossil-free electricity is our bridge in order to transform our society into climate neutral and at the same time continue to be a welfare nation worthy of the name. I do not know what time in the order of time we want to highlight an important decision that this House should take quite immediately: set the target of Sweden having a fossil-free energy production even after 2040 and remove the unnecessarily limiting target of renewable energy. There is an expression that obeys the facts that doesn't care about your feelings. I think it fits well with the debate on the validity or non-existence of nuclear power. One may think and one may feel, and in our country there has been an enormous amount of investment in emotion and prestige on this issue. But I would like more people to be able to look at nuclear power on the basis of today's reality and the challenges we face. These are challenges to be able to expand and perhaps even double today's electricity generation, challenges to expand production power in the southern half of the country where we have the biggest power deficit today, challenges to be able to lift the ever higher prices that affect households and businesses and the challenge of saving our climate. Without nuclear power, the equation collapses. The Swedish Parliament must therefore clearly signal to the market that nuclear power is not only to be tolerated during a transitional period, but is urgently requested without any stopping dates in sight. Madam President, I would like For many years, Sweden has enjoyed a very strong competitive advantage vis-à-vis many other countries thanks to our relatively low electricity prices, which are the fruit of a well-developed base production from hydropower and nuclear energy. Moreover, the fact that we have managed to become almost fossil-free certainly does not make matters worse. But this is something that is being embezzled due to the early decommissioning of reactors in Sweden. The effects of the loss of production are getting worse as we now see how the prices of emission allowances skyrocket. Allow me now to say quickly that I am not sorry that allowances have become much more expensive. It is urgently proof that the emissions trading system is finally starting to have the intended effect. It's supposed to cost producing ugile. However, it becomes a problem for all households and businesses when the electricity bill becomes something that crowds out other necessary costs. I recently saw that debt collection companies in Norway are equipping for the fact that many Norwegian households will find it difficult to pay their electricity bills in the coming winter. But at the same time it is comforted that many will manage the prices because people have been able to save money during the pandemic when so much has been closed down and there have been no shopping trips to Swedish border trade. In January 2014 we in SVT were able to take part of a news item with the heading Then it was also cold, but the price did not soar as we have seen recently. The explanation then was that hydroelectric power and nuclear power were fully running. Remember that we then had four more reactors in operation than we have today. But from the government and the Green Party I do not hear anything about this very reason; the high price of electricity is due to Russia and gas. It is a bad idea for Sweden to have shut down nuclear power and become dependent on Russian gas. After all, gas is burning in neighbouring countries, and we are dependent on them to do so. Madam President, I would like This is an absurd situation that is taking place in front of our eyes. We can't have this. We must have stable, secure, weather-independent and fossil-free electricity production that is large enough to meet the needs of the climate change that is now taking place in the heavy industry and in the automotive fleet. We need to plan for a society that keeps and thinks whole. Sweden will apparently have to double its electricity production by 2040, and many believe that we only want nuclear power. But that would not be the most cost-effective. The system that will meet our increased electricity demand is, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, a doubling of current electricity production, and in order for it to be most cost-effective, we need equal parts of nuclear power, water and wind power. But right now, it doesn't look like it. Madam President, I would like Almost every time this question comes up, the red-green parties answer that Sweden has an electricity surplus and that we produce more than we use. That's right. But it's like saying that boats can't run aground, because the ocean averages 3.7 kilometers deep. The fact that Sweden exports electricity in July is a very small comfort a cold and windless evening in December. I would like to add one more aspect. We know what our energy mix is today. The basic power is nuclear power and hydropower. Water power serves us well, and most people take it a little for granted. But I want to raise the finger of warning. As the Center Party said, over 2 000 hydroelectric power plants will be tested and granted new permits. That's good. However, knowing the often lengthy and uncertain licensing processes linked to environmental legislation, I am concerned that the existing hydropower will not be a matter of course in the future. The policy must be clear and the follow-up must be thorough. We Christian Democrats believe that hydropower is an extremely important energy source, which can also increase its production if it is given the right conditions. Madam President, I would like In the spring, the Swedish Energy Agency released a report showing that nuclear power can be profitable thanks to the huge demand for electricity that comes with electrification. In combination with a new Swedish energy policy that does not penalise nuclear power and at the same time subsidises the alternatives, it is possible to make this potential a reality. This has also been recognised by the French President, Mr Macron, and he has already stated that new nuclear power will be built. For Sweden it should also be possible to use SMR, small modular reactors, which among others Bill Gates is now investing in. Projects are also under way in Finland to replace electricity from coal power with SMR reactors. As far as nuclear power is concerned, the wind is turning. It bodes well for the climate, growth and Sweden's continued prosperity. Sweden deserves a new energy policy for the whole of Sweden to work.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1843	Madam President, I would like The hour's late. There was a little happy call on the way up to the speaker's chair, shall we sum up everything? No, we don't. Of course, I support our particular opinion. We do not participate in the decision, just as Mattias Jonsson explained here in a commendable way earlier. Madam President, I would like This is my last session here in the speaker's chair. I would like to thank the President and the President's Office for the years I have been in Parliament. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the committee's staff for the cooperation we have had over the years. These have been both impossible and possible issues, but they have been extremely professional cooperation with the staff of the committee. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Members, especially the energy policy spokespersons. We have not always agreed, but most of the time there has been a good tone in the debate and with a glimpse in the eye. I really appreciate that. Finally, the hour is late, and we have been running for quite some time today. What is better then than a few words from Karl-Karl-Bertil Jonsson's Christmas story: After a well done work you feel inner peace, and this is what society rests on. With this I thank myself and wish you all a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year and Happiness in the Future.
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1849	(Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable Member very much for his efforts in this House and to wish him every success. )
i-3f5ba4d96a7e61ef-1850	Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate too much. We do not need to talk about energy policy, but I would like to thank the committee and all the other Members for their cooperation. The honourable Member is always well-read and knowledgeable, and there were exciting debates in this House. Thank you very much.
