i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-0	Madam President, I would like An ammunition supply is being blown up in the Czech Republic. Responsible Russian elements are pointed out. Diplomats and Russian citizens have been expelled. Russia has drawn up an official list of unfriendly states. Russia has previously acted in the then EU area with the poison attempt against Skripal in Salisbury. In Russia oppositionists are brutally suppressed. Foreign diplomats are being thrown out grounded. Aleksej Navalnyj has been placed in a camp and thus attempts have been made to silence an important Putin-critical voice before the autumn elections, just as extremist stamps are now being used against the organised opposition. Up to 150 000 soldiers, Russia has drawn together in the immediate vicinity of Ukraine. It is against this background that the Moderates have asked for this particular debate on Russia. It can also be added that nothing happens in Belarus without the approval of the Kremlin. There is a need for clarity. It takes determination. Action is required.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-3	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the recent developments in Russia have been negative. Russia acts internally and externally in a way that challenges the interests and values of Sweden and the EU. Long-term and firmness of principle is necessary in order to deal effectively with the challenges but also the opportunities in our relationship with Russia. Russia's invasion of Georgia in 2008 was a wake-up call. The attacks on Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 remain the main threats to the European security regime. Both in the post-Soviet states and in Syria and Libya, for example, a pattern of negative Russian foreign policy action emerges. Russia lacks the means to assert its interests. Disinformation, cyberattacks, provocative military behaviour– most recently in and around Ukraine– are integral parts of Russia's foreign policy toolbox. At the same time, we see a link between Russia's negative external action and domestic policy developments in Russia. The human rights situation, democracy and the rule of law have gradually worsened. The executive legislative and judicial power has become increasingly concentrated. In the run-up to the September Duma elections, we see increased repression and tougher application of the laws on foreign agents. Contacts with the outside world are restricted, and the legal system is used to silence oppositionists and journalists. The management by the authorities of Aleksej Navalnyj and Jurij Dmitrijev is symptomatic of the limited ability of the opposition and civil society to operate freely. Madam President, I would like Overall, this is a worrying development. We need to demonstrate in principle when Russia's actions are contrary to international law and challenge the European security regime. At the same time, we shall support constructive forces in Russia in the long term. This is the basis of our two-track policy. We need to strengthen our own resilience, including our defence capabilities, and continue to coordinate with partners in order to maintain international pressure on Russia. EU unity and transatlantic coordination remain important t. It was gratifying that this week the European Council was able to confirm the five principles of the European Union. The five principles include sanctions policy, the Eastern Partnership, resilience, selective engagement, civil society support and inter-people exchanges. It is in difficult times that we must safeguard the balance in the two-track policy in particular. Our commitment to democracy, human rights and the environment is among the clearest among the EU Member States. I have repeatedly expressed our positions to Russian representatives, and our diplomatic missions in Russia are particularly concerned with human rights and civil society issues. We will also continue to seek cooperation in Russia on issues where Sweden has interests, such as trade, health, climate and the environment. The regional organisations of the Arctic Council, the Council of Baltic Sea States and the Barents Council are of particular importance in this work. Russia has now taken over the Presidency of the Arctic Council, and last week I was able to express our expectations to the Russian Foreign Minister that the Council should remain a forum for constructive cooperation in a region of low tension.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-11	Madam President, I would like As far as Russia is concerned, clarity and determination are the same. Developments within the country's borders are worrying with severe crackdowns on oppositionists. The attempt to establish some kind of interest zones in Europe, thereby denying countries their self-evident right to make their own political or security choices, must be constantly marked out against. One third of Georgia's territory is under Russian control via two so-called breakaway republics. A war is being waged against Ukraine since the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014. Parts of Moldova's territory are under Russian control through the so-called breakaway republic of Transnistria. Russian authorities operate within the EU as poison killers in Salisbury or as bomb marauders in the Czech Republic, and Russian interests are within the cyber domain. Even the Norwegian government has pointed out Russia for attacks on the very heart chamber of democracy, the parliament – the big thing – in Oslo. Then questions must be asked. Where is the EU solidarity vis-à-vis the Czech Republic? Where are the severe sanctions against Russia? More than anything else, Moscow argues against doing anything against Nord Stream 2. That is precisely why the pipeline that will pump fossil gas into our Europe and make EU countries more dependent on Russia is a particularly well-chosen object. Further ways of strengthening security in the Baltic Sea region would be for Sweden to step away from close and constructive NATO cooperation, to which this government, in particular, has contributed, to become a full member of NATO. Then there is reason to recall the Center's Kerstin Lundgren and her brilliant change of line with Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde during the foreign policy debate. She recalled Sergej Lavrov's comments at the press conference they both held in Moscow. There he gave praise and said that Sweden's policy of not participating in any military alliance is an important factor for regional stability. I fully share Lundgren's conclusion:- I think it would be more dressy on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government to listen more to the Riksdag than to Sergej Lavrov. ..................................................... The EU will now prepare a strategic document on Russia to be discussed in June. To be honest, it is difficult to understand what line the Swedish Government is taking. The Prime Minister has said that is why it is so important that we also stick together. Do not underestimate this! Yes, unity is important. But it is possible to have two approaches: to accept what becomes the lowest common denominator in the name of unity or to try, like our Baltic neighbours, to push forward and get something sharp and clear in place. Madam President, I would like It is not in the back seat of Sweden, to end up where the vehicle ends up. Sweden belongs at the front to take part in choosing the path, take the course and steer.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-18	Madam President, I would like The sad situation in Russia is undeniably something to which we are sadly forced to return. Recent events have unfortunately shown no positive change. On the contrary, we have every reason to take seriously the warning signals we see. This applies both to the human rights situation in the country and to the obvious security policy threat that Russia poses to other countries. Last Sunday, we saw a regular passenger plane between two EU states being hijacked in principle by one of Russia's closest allies, namely the Belarus dictator Lukasjenko. The act was surprising in its method, but the fact that Russia and its allies with threats of arms power do not shun any approach is anything but new. The fact that Russia has been involved directly or indirectly in the hijacking is very likely. For a long time now Belarus and Russia have been part of a Union state, and there is clear evidence that the Russian security services have been involved in the arrest of two passengers of the plane, the Belarus journalist Roman Protasevich and his partner. However, this is just one in a series of recent events that all point to constant and increasing Russian aggressive action. Only three days ago Russian strategic bombers landed in Syria, and from the Russian side are now being announced that these aircraft will patrol the Mediterranean. The bombers in question are of the same type as what Easter 2013 practiced what was probably a nuclear attack on Sweden. Madam President, I would like Since taking office in 2000, Putin has consistently acted more aggressively. Many reacted when Putin, a few years after his election, referred to the collapse of the Soviet Union as the greatest geopolitical disaster. Since then, Russia's actions have become overexplicit in its aggressiveness. The examples of this are many. In 2007, Russia resumed its first patrols with strategic bombers since the days of the Cold War. In 2008, Georgia was invaded. In addition, as Mr Wallmark well explained, we have the so-called peace-keeping troops in Transnistria, Moldova, the war in eastern Ukraine and, of course, the annexation of Crimea. In Russia, the opposition has also been increasingly oppressed under Putin. Oppositionists like Boris Nemtsov have been murdered on the street in Moscow. Most recently, we have the imprisonment of the courageous opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj, who has been poisoned by Russian agents. At the same time, censorship in the country is increasing, and today a censorship law is being discussed that clearly focuses on the Russian educational system.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-24	Madam President, I would like The development of events in Russia is a wake of oppression. Now the thumb screws are tightened. The civilian space is shrinking sharply. Access to free media is being strangled. The right to organize is being strangled. Reell opposition to corruption and power are imprisoned, tortured or killed. The Kremlin feels threatened by free thought. We can already foresee that the forthcoming parliamentary elections will be neither fair nor free. President Putin has one single priority: to retain power and ensure the survival of the regime. The people will be disciplined and realize that all possible and unthinkable means are ready to be used by the regime. Lukasjenko and Kadyrov serve that purpose well. Russia, as has been noted, has violated all the guiding principles on which the OSSE was founded. The Kremlin does not want to maintain any security order except its own. The Soviet Union signed the principles, but Russia now wants to restore its Soviet sphere of influence. With open archives we know that there were proposals after the Second World War that, besides Finland, Sweden would also be part of that sphere of influence. Around it they wanted to create a neutral zone. This is worth recalling, Madam President, when you read about Russia's aggressive behaviour in our neighbourhood and against independent states in the EU neighbourhood or when Lavrov repeats the Kremlin's proposal for 5+3+1 format for security talks in our region. It is yet another proof of Russia's consistent attempts to threaten, divide and set order. Madam President, I would like Russia under Putin poisons its citizens, tortures and kills contenders like Nemtsov, uses chemical weapons like against Navalnyj and kills lawyers like Magnitsky in prison. Putin rule attacks within Russia and within the EU, shoots down a Malaysian civilian aircraft, enters Georgia and Ukraine militarily, annexes illegally and occupies, contributes to destabilisation and open, unresolved conflicts and blows up ammunition stocks in the Czech Republic. There are no limits to Russia's action. The creation of Ryanair's plan to Vilnius is not condemned – quite the contrary. This sends the signal that the hijacking of civil aircraft in airspace is accepted. All means are allowed, and there are no rules to trust. It can be read in the Must Yearbook that Russia is seeking a security regime that recognises its right to a sphere of interest, including, in particular, Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. This is what Russia we and our time must relate to. We and the European Union must prioritise and recognise that today we have common issues but very different interests.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-29	Madam President, I would like Vladimir Putin has now ruled Russia for more than 20 years. During his time in power, the country has become increasingly undemocratic and authoritarian. In the years following the fall of the Soviet Union, there was hope for a democratic Russia, but today we see a reactionary, conservative and patriarchal rule that oppresses oppositional and human rights defenders and acts aggressively against its neighbours and plays a destabilising role in world politics. In Sweden, the tone is often high when Russia is being debated. The country's actions are used as arguments for NATO membership and increased defence appropriations, but too rarely is the need for support for the courageous human rights defenders who are daily threatened by the Russian regime. Russia is today a security policy threat, first and foremost to all those in Russia who oppose the regime or who do not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For Russian LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Russia's imperialist policy also poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries, notably Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. In Belarus, the dictator Lukasjenko becomes an extended arm to Putin's regime as his dependence on Russia increases to keep him in power. His madness becomes increasingly evident when he hijacks civilian aircraft. Sweden is Chairman of the OSSE during 2021. It is a difficult and tough mission, as in practice every day there is a diplomatic wrestling match with Russia about the conditions for the European security regime. Since Putin for two decades, Europe has not become more secure, but not everything can be blamed on Russia. A warlike rhetoric and armament on the part of NATO are adding to the tensions of security policy on the continent. In Russia, people want to throw out the cleptocracy in the Kremlin that shoes itself, and in Belarus people want free and fair elections. But the regimes do not shun any means to silence their opponents. Poisonings and mass arrests become commonplace against a Russian and belarusian opposition that needs all our support. Do not let the ugliness of the regimes break our solidarity with the struggles of the Belarussian and Russian peoples for freedom, justice and democracy. The development of the world's largest surface country cannot be described in three minutes. I have time to highlight some of the issues we in the Left Party consider important in the relationship between Sweden and Russia. We want to see a development that increases the inter-folk contacts between Swedes and Russians. We would like to stress the importance of increased mobility for the Russian population, not least through facilitation of visa rules and tourism. We want to make it easier for Russian students to study in Sweden. Sweden needs to be a clear and consistent voice for democracy, international law and human rights in our relations with Russia.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-36	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to thank the Moderates for the initiative for this debate. The fact that the subject is indeed highly topical shows not least the events of the last week. Few doubt that it was Russia that was involved when the dictatorship regime in Belarus the other day forced down a regular Ryanair plan and arrested the regime-critical journalist Roman Protasevich. That is how state terrorism looks in the spirit of Lukasjenko and Putin. The fact that Russia is becoming increasingly ruthless, increasingly brutal, is confirmed by developments within it. Peaceful demonstrators are being knocked down, journalists are being threatened, and critics of the regime are being imprisoned and poisoned. The attempt to silence Aleksej Navalnyj with the chemical neurotoxin novitjok shows what this is about, a despot clinging to power. Madam President, I would like In order to cover up the breakdown internally and mislead the population, the Russian regime is increasing the level of conflict with the outside world. The EU and NATO are presented as acute threats, while pressure and disinformation campaigns are directed at neighbouring countries. Ukraine, like the Baltic States, is currently under almost permanent pressure from Moscow politically but also militarily. The recent power demonstration of tens of thousands of combat-ready soldiers along the Ukrainian border is one example. In an already tense situation, this is a serious escalation and provocation against the free and independent states that have long had enough of Russian abuse of power. Madam President, I would like The will and ability to stand up to the aggression of the Russian regime must be strengthened. It is about increasing the resilience to military attacks and, not least, to cyber attacks and influence operations. This requires know-how and financial resources, but above all cooperation is needed. Together with the EU, the US and other democracies, it is possible to resist Putin's expansionism. It is through cooperation that the threshold of the Russian regime is raised and deterrence is achieved. On this, Madam President, awareness must be increased, not least with the Swedish Government.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-43	Madam President, I would like Developments in Russia are very serious. The misrule of the country under Vladimir Putin's leadership and the military assaults on neighbouring countries have sent shock waves across Europe and the world. This affects us very significantly in Sweden as well. We're a neighboring country to Russia. We have a long and complicated history with Russia. It stretches back centuries. We're neighbors, but we haven't always been friends. Sweden is not hostile to Russia. We are the warmest friends of all Russians who want to live a good life in freedom and democracy. But we are deeply concerned about the developments that Russia has taken during Vladimir Putin's time in power. The attempted murder of Sergej Skripal and Aleksej Navalnyj, and not least the murder of Boris Nemtsov and former Anna Politkovskaja, show how mercilessly the Russian dictatorship and its allied groupings are. These acts — no matter who has carried them out — have a purpose. They send a signal that no critic to Putin is safe anywhere. Madam President, I would like Russia also refused in the UN Security Council to condemn Aleksandr Lukasjenko hijacking of a Ryanair plane in Belarus a few days ago. It is Putin's support that enables Lukasjenko to continue to be a dictator in Belarus. Similarly, Moscow supports a number of dictatorships and rogue states around the world, not least Syria, Venezuela and Iran. At the same time, the citizens of the Russian Federation are denied their most fundamental freedoms. Madam President, I would like The conclusion is very simple and concise. Nothing would be better for Sweden, Europe and the world than for Russia to become a democracy.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-49	Madam President, I would like Russia's lack of respect for democracy and human rights is clear to all to see. The country's leaders don't even seem to want to hide it. Those who dare to stand up to the regime risk their lives. Russia is one of the world's most dangerous countries for journalists. Abroad Russia engages in cyber-attacks and destabilisation, orders murder, threatens scientists, commits attempted murder and threatens people who exercise their human rights. The poisoning and imprisonment of Aleksej Navalnyj have been condemned by many, but it can be repeated. He and all other political prisoners must be released. Political parties should be able to operate freely in a democratic spirit in all countries and also in Russia. It does not help that there is a statutory freedom of assembly if it is restricted by the authorities. Legal measures such as mass arrests and prosecutions against those who organise and participate in peaceful demonstrations criticising power exist to a large extent, but the courts cannot be considered independent Unfair sanctions in response to the criticisms of the outside world when Russia openly violates agreements entered into may not be surprising, but they are nevertheless unacceptable. Sweden and the EU are clear in their condemnations and sanctions, and that unity is important. The European Council conclusions condemning Russia's illegal, provocative and subversive activities against the EU, its Member States and other countries are clear. But Russia continues to openly show its disregard for democracy and human rights. How are we going to change the way forward? The outside world must continue to react clearly and firmly. Unrelentingly, we must uphold international law and human rights. The pressure to live up to the principles of a rule - based world system needs to be constant.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-55	Madam President, I would like leva Tolstoj wrote that the two most powerful warriors are patience and time. Like us, the balance in Sweden's two-track policy also needs the EU to act strategically. Russia's full implementation of the Minsk agreements, which came about after negotiations on Ukraine, needs to remain the cornerstone of EU policy. We need to maintain and adapt the sanctioning regime, develop the resilience of the EU and strengthen the Eastern Partnership. It was positive that in the spring the EU was able to agree on restrictive measures in view of the deterioration of the human rights situation in Russia. At the same time, the EU needs to seek cooperation with Russia on issues of long-term interest, such as civil society support and inter-people exchanges. Madam President, I would like Relations between the EU and Russia have deteriorated. Russia has imposed sanctions on eight citizens, including one head of the National Defence Research Institute. I have expressed our protests against these unfounded and politically motivated sanctions to Foreign Minister Lavrov. Russia has also asymmetrically declared a number of EU diplomats undesirable due to Russia's involvement in the explosion at the arms depot in the Czech Republic. Russia has also classified the Czech Republic and the United States as unfriendly states. This is totally unacceptable. I was one of the first foreign ministers to express support for the Czech Republic, and we have promoted clear EU action and offered support to the Czech Embassy in Moscow. However, both the EU and Sweden have an interest in maintaining diplomatic activity to safeguard our foreign policy priorities, develop inter-people relations and support Russian civil society. This requires diplomatic presence. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Presidency of the OSSE is an expression of the Government's ambition to strengthen security in the immediate region. Russia's role in the conflicts of OSCE regions is obvious. Together with partners, we worked to reduce the tension in and around Ukraine in connection with the spring Russian maneuvers. We are now closely following the withdrawal. We continue to work for a working verification mechanism of the ceasefire along the contact line in Ukraine and for full access to the OSCE observer mission SMM. In addition, we are trying to contribute to sustainable conflict resolution in Georgia and Moldova, between Azerbaijan and Armenia and between Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. Our commitment is broad and strong.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-62	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If I say Nord Stream 2 as severe sanctions against Russia, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs say? If I say that Belarus cannot act in the grotesque way they do without the support of Putin's Russia, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs say? If I say that EU countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland have shown solidarity with the Czech Republic by marking diplomatic expulsion, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs say? And if I say that Europe's security and the security of the Baltic Sea region would increase with a Swedish NATO membership, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs say?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-64	Madam President, I would like If we start with Nord Stream 2, the government has clarified its position in the past and how such a discussion within the EU is, in practice, about the national energy policy choices of several Member States. EU sanctions are currently unrealistic because they require unanimity. The United States, too, has now withdrawn its previous position on sanctions in relation to Nord Stream 2. At the same time, the government continues its efforts to reduce the EU's dependence on Russian gas. The EU's green hand is an important component of this. I have expressed this position, as a majority in the EU Council agreed, as Sweden's position in the Foreign Affairs Council. As far as Belarus is concerned, it is quite clear that Russia is now coming closer to its desire to make a Union state with Belarus, which is not positive.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-68	Madam President, I would like Many thanks, but the Secretary of State will have to ask his staff to read the press release from the United States a little more carefully! What has been done is to ease certain sanctions against German companies and interests, but the criticism of Nord Stream 2 is as distinct as before. I do not think that undermining the Nord Stream 2 position, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just done, is attractive. Above all, it is not attractive to say that you are also part of it, that is to say that you share the opposition's view that Nord Stream 2 should be used as a sanction. I shall continue with my questions, Madam President. If I say that the Eastern Partnership after Lukasjenko illegal kidnapping on Sunday has now fallen apart, what does the Foreign Minister say? The Foreign Minister just stated in his speech that the Eastern Partnership that the EU has is important. So do I. It is important to show solidarity with Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova. But something has happened in Europe since Sunday.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-71	Madam President, I would like The Eastern Partnership is one of the most important relations that the EU has with the six Eastern Partnership countries. It was introduced during the time when Carl Bildt was Minister of Foreign Affairs, and we have continued to do so. I think it's very positive. However, it is very possible that what has happened in the case of Belarus could have consequences for the Eastern Partnership. The summit to be held with the Eastern Partnership this autumn hopes that we will have real concrete results, but I do not rule out that this will also have consequences for who is invited and in what way. Yesterday, foreign ministers had an informal discussion in Portugal, including on Belarus. There we looked at the very strict rules and the severe consequences decided on by the Heads of State or Government on Monday.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-74	Madam President, I would like On the Foreign Minister, it often sounds like taking direct action against the abuses that Russia repeatedly brings. In fact, we are quite unique in the Swedish Parliament: all parties tend to condemn the aggression that Russia shows and the violations of human rights that we consistently see. The difference in Parliament, Madam President, is about how the various parties act in practical terms. It's action that matters. For this reason, I think there are many of us who saw what a shameless betrayal the Social Democrats showed almost two years ago in the Council of Europe when they let Russia back into the heat. They had been thrown out precisely because of their aggression in Ukraine and because of the development we saw. Madam President, I would like How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view this?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-78	Madam President, I would like I note that when you sit in the government, you can really act. And that is what we are doing, for example, through sanctions against Russian citizens via the European Union. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, of course, it is the Parliamentary Assembly and the Members of Parliament who sit there who are responsible for their actions.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-80	Madam President, I would like Of course, those sitting there will be responsible for their actions. But can we interpret this as saying that the Foreign Minister rejects the Social Democrats who, like many other Social Democrats in Europe, voted in favour of Russia's re-entry despite the fact that there were no counter-claims and that Russia had shown no sign whatsoever of having improved so? Furthermore, I can only say that sanctions are absolutely something very positive. That is precisely why the Swedish Democrats have pushed for national Magnitsky sanctions so that we should not be dependent on a sluggish EU colossus. What's the problem? Why can Sweden not have its own national sanctions in order to be able to act quickly and resolutely with other countries, as the Visegrád countries have done?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-82	Madam President, I would like Sweden has for a long time been convinced that sanctions are best implemented and will be most effective in cooperation with others. We are following sanctions that apply from the EU and the UN. In addition, we have now received the new so-called Magnitsky sanctions, global human rights sanctions, and they have been used on several occasions. I still believe that it is most effective to have common sanctions regimes where Sweden is part of a context.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-83	Madam President, I would like After all, the EU is to renew its Russia strategy, and it is important to clarify whether the Swedish Government is pursuing a two-track policy there or whether it is acting unequivocally. I am also a little curious about the Eastern Partnership. Does the Swedish government drive Belarus to be excluded from this situation? Finally, Madam President, what principles of the five principles give priority to the Swedish Government? We are talking about energy security. There we do not have the same view as Russia. Russia has an interest in oil and gas, but also in uranium, which they also sell to Sweden. How is the government prepared to act to build greater energy robustness?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-86	Madam President, I would like With regard to two-track policy and which of the five principles of the European Union we prioritise, the very point of two-track policy and five principles is precisely that it should be balanced. At different times, depending on what happens, you have certain elements that you might emphasize more. But it is not the case that you have these five principles to give priority to one or the other more. It is precisely the balance that is the point, that you have a sanction regime that allows you to resort to sanctions when needed, but that at the same time you have the opportunity to support civil society, as the EU does. Then let's give it the same priority. Then some days, some weeks and some months may have to be tougher when it comes to sanctions, for example. It is the same with regard to the two-track policy. That's the whole point: that we don't just have one or the other.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-88	Madam President, I would like The concern is that Russia has a track policy. If we are to be able to act clearly towards Russia, we must also find the track that will apply in relation to Russia, so that they understand that we do not have a menu that they can choose to play on. We know that they use menus to destabilise and influence where the opportunity is given. Here, Madam President, we need the EU to gather together and give priority to what is needed in the near future to show Russia, so that Russia also understands the message. I am also a little curious about Magnitsky legislation: is the government prepared now to follow up with sanctions linked to systematic corruption and money laundering? It would affect both Lukasjenko and Putin.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-90	Madam President, I would like As far as Russia's one-track policy is concerned, however, I think it is a little more nuanced than that. The Parliament has adopted an Arctic strategy, and we then had an Arctic debate which I think is very positive. There we can see that parts of cooperation with Russia can work, which is very important. We want a low-voltage policy. We want environmental cooperation, which is now incredibly intense. We also want the opportunity for health cooperation. There we can have a good relationship with Russia, which I think we should continue with. Most of it now is the negative development in Russia, and that is what we are concentrating on in this debate. But that everything now would be unequivocally negative, I think, is a little simplistic.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-92	Madam President, I would like On a couple of occasions in the debate, Nord Stream 2 has been up, a project that both the bourgeois government Reinfeldt and the Social Democratic government Löfven should have done more to stop. Already when the project was initiated, it became clear that it should have been rejected from both environmental and security policy aspects. However, in Sweden too, dependence on energy from Russia has increased. Since 2016, Government Vattenfall has been purchasing Russian uranium from Rosatom for its nuclear power plants. This, together with Nord Stream 2, increases European dependence on Russian energy and reduces our room for manoeuvre to act decisively in the event of a crisis. What do we do if Russia stops the supply of uranium when winter is cold? What does Germany do when gas supplies stop? Getting gas withdrawn is something that both Ukraine, Georgia and Belarus have already tried. If we are to have a total defence perspective, the Swedish energy needs must be secured in the Nordic countries. Then nuclear power with Russian uranium is not the solution. How can an S-MP government come up with such a stupid idea?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-95	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been against Nord Stream 2. We have acted against it. But we refuse to go against international law and Unclo, which is the law of the sea. That is why we have not been able to stop it. If we were to say all of a sudden that in this matter we are violating international law, what credibility would Sweden have when we say on other occasions that we should not violate international law? There are both environmental and safety reasons to be very negative to Nord Stream 2, which is Sweden's line. In the case of uranium, Sweden buys it from several countries. It is not only Russia that represents the uranium to Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-97	Madam President, I would like In Russia there are two different words for opposition. It does so because it wishes to describe the difference between the opposition taking place within the system, with the approval of the regime, and the real opposition, which wants to introduce real democracy. This week new data came on the Russian Duma's treatment of a new bill. It is a question of all persons who are designated to be associated with an organisation that is classified as foreign agents being prohibited from holding parliamentary duties at all political levels, and that applies retroactively three years back in time. As a result of this proposal, contacts between two different types of opposition are hindered and people are being deprived of politically elected missions, which has increased increasingly in Russia. In the last local elections, the allowed opposition had great success through so-called smart voting, that is, people voted for candidates who did not belong to Putin's Enade Russia party. I wonder what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about the bill that shuts out the opposition from parliamentary missions. How are we going to act until the parliamentary elections in Russia this autumn?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-101	Madam President, I would like This is definitely an example of the loss of democratic space in Russia. It is something that we have constantly acted against, and it has become worse and worse. For example, on 9 June the issue of classifying the organisation of Navalnyj FBK as extremist, which is also a clear example of how things are going in the wrong direction. Of course, we are very critical of the restrictions that Håkan Svenneling talked about but also of other restrictions. On my last visit to Russia, I met a number of civil society organisations which can now, in principle, not seem as they have done in the past. It throws out leaders and refers to what it says are administrative problems so that their activities are made impossible. This is, of course, reprehensible.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-103	Madam President, I would like The Security Service's annual report for 2020 describes Russia as the biggest security threat to our country together with China and Iran. Among other things, it describes how the Moscow regime tries to influence Sweden's defence policy cooperation with other countries using legal and illegal methods. The annual report states that the aim of Russia's activities is to ensure that Sweden is non-aligned and kept outside the NATO defence alliance. In view of this, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see the government she represents having the same view of a Swedish NATO membership as Vladimir Putin?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-105	Madam President, I would like In accordance with the defence policy decision of 2020, we continue to have close and enhanced cooperation, including with the US and NATO. This is part of the solidarity policy on security. It has a conflict-responsive effect. On a horizontal level, the government is using all possibilities for international cooperation to maintain respect for international law and for the European security regime. The security policy situation in Sweden, in the immediate region and in Europe has deteriorated over time, and an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. The defence decision adopted by the Riksdag in December is the answer to Lars Adaktusson's question. In response to the Russian action and military construction in the immediate region, the various countries have greatly increased their defence capabilities – as has Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-108	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Russian regime wants Sweden to remain outside NATO goes without saying – that would mean that the threshold would be raised substantially in order to attack our country at some point. Of course, Mr Putin understands this, and the Swedish Government should also realise this. The Minister of Defence has pointed out in various contexts that we are living in a time of fundamentally changed security policy conditions because of Russia. It is high time, Madam President, to act on this. It is high time, Ann Linde, to put Sweden's security first – ahead of Putin's interests and before the peace of the house in its own party.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-110	Madam President, I would like The government puts Swedish security at the top. We put it much higher than having a party political debate in Parliament. That is why we have significantly increased defence costs. That is why we cooperate with NATO, Finland, Norway, the United States and the UK. That is also why we emphasise that Swedish NATO membership is not an issue. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well. It contributes to the stability and security of northern Europe. At the same time, this is based on our cooperating with others. I have no problem at all defending Sweden's security policy line. It's fixed. It contributes to peace, stability and security for the people of Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-113	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament recently adopted a so-called China Strategy, which Sweden now has, following a major discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It established the overall approach to China, as well as the view of critical investments, security policies and other things. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Why does Sweden not have a similar strategy with regard to Russia, which has been established in the Riksdag and which has been widely discussed and which acts as a kind of bottom sheet for how we see Russia? Today, we have a strategy for democracy and human rights that partially regulates some of the aid that goes through Sida, but there is a need for Sweden to be broad – and also the Riksdag parliamentary – to establish and clarify the position towards Russia and how we should act so that the dictatorship there will not have the initiative.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-116	Madam President, I would like I agree with Fredrik Malm that it is very important to have a parliamentary consensus in order to have an effective Russia policy. Russia is, of course, a frequent topic on issues, in interpellations, in discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the EU Council. Our Russian policy is also a central part of our national security strategy, which is anchored in Parliament.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-117	Madam President, I would like It was very interesting when Parliament was going to adopt this particular China strategy, I would say. Since all parties in the Riksdag considered this issue to be so important, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Riksdag agreed. The Prime Minister also acknowledged this in the Government Declaration, which is very unusual. It has also strengthened the government that it knows that there is a consensus on the line that Sweden is pursuing. We want unity and broad alliances at European level and across the Atlantic, and I think it is very good if this can be made clear at home too. I think that this should be seen more as a contribution, but I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should take a proper look at whether or not to initiate a Russia strategy, like what we have in relation to China. Now it will also be updated at EU level, so this may be a good opportunity to do so.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-120	Madam President, I would like As far as Russia's policy is concerned, we have for a long time, with the two-track policy, an established policy that is anchored in Parliament. It involves both harsh sanctions and support for civil society. The EU has the so-called five-track policy, and in Sweden we have the two-track policy. This is anchored in the Riksdag. As far as China is concerned, the same thing did not exist, and that is why the China Strategy was developed. I think it was even better after the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the additions and changes that were made so that we could then have a common vision. We are much stronger when we have it. I believe that there has been a difference because the EU has not had a common China policy like the EU has a common Russia policy.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-122	Madam President, I would like In my final speech, let me remind you what we are dealing with in Russia. We have the murder of Boris Nemtsov and the underwear poisoning of Aleksej Navalnyj – two leading opposition representatives. We have the bombing in the Czech Republic. We have the attempted poison murder in Britain against Skripal. We have an assassination attempt in Gävle; the Minister of Foreign Affairs has in the near future called the Russian ambassador to mark the rejection of this. These are acts committed by Russian representatives in our Europe. We have a FOI employee who has been mislisted. We have a cyber attack on the Norwegian capital, our sister parliament, in Oslo. It is stated, from the Norwegian authorities, that it came from the Russian side. We have the latest developments in Belarus. The Foreign Minister's colleague from Lithuania, Gabrielius Landsbergis, describes this as a risk that we will have a new, large Crimea right on the edge of our part of the world. Madam President, I would like We have South Ossetia, Abkhazia, Crimea, Transnistria, which are different parts of free states, which are now controlled by Russia through different structures. This requires action. The Foreign Minister said earlier that it is when you are in government that you can really act. That's right! Then I want a government that's in the driver's seat and that controls, points out and knows which way to go. Then I want a government that also listens to a parliamentary majority calling for a NATO option to be included in the security policy line.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-128	Madam President, I would like Putin's regime poses a serious security policy threat to Sweden. It is a threat that we must take seriously. However, if Russia develops in a more democratic direction, it will pose a less security policy threat to us and to neighbouring countries. That is why the Russian opposition – then we are not talking about any parties, but about the real, courageous opposition consisting of LGBTQ activists, feminists, human rights defenders and environmentalists – needs the support of the outside world. To support them is to support democratic development in Russia and improved security for the outside world. The Code of Agents and the Act of Undesired Organisations has made it difficult for the Russian democracy movement and civil society to operate. The Left Party wants to increase Swedish support to Russian civil society by SEK 60 million. However, the Moderates have flagged off the desire to reduce and reduce aid by a quarter and, above all, want to focus on humanitarian aid. How, then, are we to support the real Russian opposition? What do the Moderates want to do to strengthen people-to-people contacts between Sweden and Russia?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-131	Madam President, I would like As far as aid policy is concerned, humanitarian and human measures, such as emergency aid, represent about one-tenth of Sweden's total aid. We would like to increase it to where it really is in need, so that we can give directly to people. As far as human rights are concerned in our neighbourhood, we are also very much in favour of it. The building of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania after regaining their independence are good and inspiring examples. I want to see that in Russia too. I want to see that in Belarus, too. I would even like to use aid for this, even if it is not depreciable according to OECD-Dac rules. Do Left Party and Håkan Svenneling want that? To this I would like to say that even parties are important in Russia, if they are on the side of democracy. So we should not dismiss it. On the other hand, Putin has knocked away the bones for party formation in Russia.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-134	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that the Moderates do not just care to count off OECD-Dac aid. In the past year it has otherwise been a bit of a Swedish competition in who can count of the most aid. The Left Party has been the big loser because we have wanted to count off the least. We have wanted to protect Swedish aid. It is important to go where the needs are greatest. It is also important to see the need, not just to talk about humanitarian needs, and the human rights defenders we are now dealing with. I welcome Hans Wallmark's support for them. I think it is important not only to call out to NATO every time one looks at a problem, but also to look at the whole diplomatic toolbox and also to talk about ways of contributing to disarmament, disarmament and support for democratic movements. I think there is a great danger in painting a picture that all Russians pose a threat to Sweden. It is the Putin regime, Putin's cleptocracy, that poses the security policy threat to Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-138	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely the case. That is why I also think that the example of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania deserves to inspire us all. Nor is it a coincidence that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are today the strongest critics of developments in Russia and Belarus. I have not mentioned NATO in the line shift. But it did Håkan Svenneling, which is all the more welcome. It also happens to be the path chosen by Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. When they got the freedom, it was the way to secure their own security. This should lead to some kind of internal reflection of Sweden's red-green parties. I agree with the point that I think Fredrik Malm from the Liberals expressed in an eloquent way. We are not against Russia. Russia is a great cultural nation and a historical neighbour. But we are against the shoplifters in the Kremlin and are for the people. When they demonstrate in the streets and squares, I'm with them in spirit. I hope Svenneling is the same.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-142	Madam President, I would like The negative developments in Russia with regard to human rights must be met with both action, through, for example, targeted Magnitsky sanctions, as well as condemnations. When unfair diplomatic expulsions and other obvious violations are carried out by the Russian side, we must be prepared, together with other countries, to demonstrate, through rapid and resolute countermeasures, that it is not tolerated. We must be clear that the aggression that Russia is carrying out, including through military activities, in the immediate vicinity of Sweden is totally unacceptable. The fact that the government meets the wishes of the majority of Parliament for a NATO option and to deepen our military cooperation with Finland should therefore be self-evident. I expect that from the government. What have the Swedish reactions to this repression and aggression been during the 21st century? A quick look back unfortunately gives a very disappointing picture. Sweden has not upgraded its military defence. Instead, except for a few years, destructive disarmament has been involved. Nor have the governments responsible clearly condemned Russian action. Sadly, there are examples of what can be seen as the opposite. That is totally unacceptable, Madam President. Unfortunately, Swedish governments have much to learn from the evasiveness that has been and from how they have acted in the event of Russian aggression. At present, the statements and condemnations of Russian action are clearer. I welcome that. Yet, in many cases, action is still lacking. It is not least worrying that so few parties in this House are prepared to declare that we need to invest at least 2% of the GDP in defence in order to face this aggression. Having said that, I would like to thank you for this important debate.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-147	Madam President, I would like Russia creates or exploits divisions within or between countries by using in a coordinated manner a wide range of military and non-military means. It often happens hidden and is deniable. Perhaps it is also part of what we have seen take place this week in Belarus with the establishment of the Ryanair plane. Madam President, I would like Where Russia wants to divide the EU and NATO, Sweden must stand up for the EU and NATO. We must not create a lack of clarity in our security policy. Sweden must make it clear by all means that we will not re-enter a Russian sphere of interest. We can clearly do that by saying that we want the NATO option that Parliament has requested. The national security strategy is not anchored in Parliament, Madam President. Alliance freedom has served Russia well since World War II. It is also true of their thoughts that we should be part of their sphere of interest. We shall stand up for each country's right to choose its path and to territorial integrity. We shall stand up for human rights and liberal democracy with a functioning independent judiciary, freedom of expression, free media and a vibrant civil society. As the Russian strategy is now to change and develop in the EU, Sweden must clearly stand up to give priority to support for eastern partners that are members of the Association Agreement, for the Minsk Agreement, for greater resilience to our energy and for sanctions that also include corruption, systematic corruption and money laundering.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-151	Madam President, I would like There were probably many of us bouncing on Sunday when the news that a civilian aircraft over Belarus with fighter planes and an imaginary bomb threat had been forced down to Minsk and that two oppositionists had been captured by the Belarus security service KGB. It is a disgusting act by the dictator and the illegitimate regime in Belarus. The country that is most actively trying to legitimise dictator Lukasjenko is Russia. Since the falsified elections in August last year, Mr Putin and Mr Lukasjenko have met several times, most recently today. The Russian regime has provided both military and financial support for the continuation of the Lukasjenko regime. It is only through strong action by the outside world that we can limit Belarus and Russia's power and space. But in Sweden we make ourselves dependent on these regimes. Over the past few weeks, the history of the hard business of the Export Credit Board, EKN, with the belarusian energy company has been rolled up – business that should never have started and could definitely have been stopped much faster than what was happening now. The handling of EKN and the government is unacceptable and needs to be investigated. Those responsible must be held accountable for their actions. It is therefore good that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has called both Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg to the committee in the near future. Swedish energy dependence on Russia has also increased. Since 2016, Vattenfall has been purchasing Russian uranium from Rosatom for its Ringhals nuclear power plants. This, together with Nord Stream 2, increases European dependence on Russian energy and reduces our room for manoeuvre to act decisively in the event of a crisis. This means that both nuclear power and Nord Stream 2 are bad for Swedish safety. Sweden must therefore have a broader concept of security with regard to Russia. We cannot stare blind at an unlikely military attack but must equip our entire society for future crises from a total defence perspective that can face climate threats and pandemics as well as energy crises and cyber attacks.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-157	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with comrade Håkan Svenneling – if the Foreign Affairs Committee invites ministers, they are coming, so I share the view that a meeting with the Foreign Minister in the near future is desirable. I do not share the Foreign Minister's view that party political debate should be avoided in the parliament on NATO. On the contrary, I see a value in it. We live in a democracy. There are other countries where such debates are avoided, and they are not democracies. Now I am not going to raise the NATO issue specifically with Håkan Svenneling, but it is interesting in that Russia wants to project its power by establishing this kind of sphere of interest and denying countries various forms of security policy choices. Håkan Svenneling spoke in his first speech about NATO armament in the immediate vicinity of Russia. Could Mr Svenneling elaborate on that? It is eeriely close to the Russian narrative.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-161	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear to everyone that NATO is also upgrading. It is said that it is due to Russian rearmament, and there is surely a truth in it. But we can see that military armaments on both sides lead to increased confidence in military means as a way of resolving conflicts and alleviating trouble spots around the world, and we can see that this is not working. Take the war in Syria as an example. It began as an internal opposition to democracy, but when the major powers intervened, the conflict was prolonged. Today we have a war that has been going on for over ten years, with great human suffering. I believe that the confidence in military means is too great. I believe that dialogue and dialogue are more important in resolving diplomatic crises. But we must also understand that there are opposing interests and that it is these opposing interests that create the conflicts that we see between Russia and the European Union and Europe as a whole. That's why we also need to talk about relaxation.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-164	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to kindly warn the Left Party against mixing the cards too much. Let me give you an example, Madam President. In recent years, the world's great rearmament has been in Asia. It is run by China, which has led South Korea, Japan and Taiwan to increase their defence efforts. Is it possible to say in any way that it is because they are a threat and that they are seeking a risk of war? Certainly not, Madam President. They are doing it as logical counter-reactions to what the People's Republic of China is doing. Similarly, in our part of Europe, it is essential to try to understand that what Russia wants to establish is its own sphere of interest. They want to deny countries, including Sweden, the opportunity to apply for NATO membership if they so wish. There, Madam President, the Left must surely agree. You in the Left Party are against a Swedish NATO membership, but you must admit that Sweden should have the right and the opportunity to seek it if you wish.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-168	Madam President, I would like I do not think that Sweden should apply for NATO membership. I do this mainly because I think it would contribute to increased rehabilitation in Sweden but also increased tensions between Sweden and other countries. Joining a military alliance that says that one should defend each other if something happens, does that mean that action from, for example, Turkey, Hungary or the United States could lead to Sweden being involved in war that we do not want to be part of? I'm proud that we've been out of war for 200 years. The last time we were at war with Russia, I hope it will never happen again. I think we can solve this diplomatically. We need to see that Sweden's security is not improving because Britain is acquiring more nuclear weapons. I can't understand how that would strengthen my safety. We must also see how various actors such as Russia are deliberately burning the conflicts that exist, for example in Nagorno-Karabakh, through increased arms exports. There are similar examples of Swedish arms exports contributing to the burning of conflicts, such as that between India and Pakistan.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-173	Madam President, I would like Yes, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs now agree that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Trade will come to committee. We heard former Foreign Minister mention that sanctions against Nord Stream 2 could affect Swedish or European companies. It is clear that sanctions affect companies. It is important to review how Swedish trade policy works if it prevents sanctions against, for example, belarusian energy companies. It is important to clarify. Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling talks about clarity and a consistent voice. I wonder: Does Håkan Svenneling think that Swedish alliance freedom serves Russia well?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-176	Madam President, I would like Sanctions are an important instrument, especially in the fight against the dictator Lukasjenko. I hope that Sweden will now turn from helping the energy companies in Belarus to putting them on the EU sanctions list against Belarus, precisely because they are part of the regime's way of financing itself and financing internal repression of the opposition. When it comes to Swedish freedom of alliance, I mean that it benefits Sweden and our world around us. This applies not only to Russia but to all the countries around us. Saying that we are non-aligned means clearly signalling peaceful claims in the world. We have no ambition to expand our territory or have any quarrel with our neighbours, and I think that is very good. After all, the situation is more difficult between many neighbouring countries than between us and the neighbouring countries we have. But it has taken a long time to build that relationship. Just over 100 years ago, Sweden was entering war with Norway. But then the Swedish labour movement stood up against the war, and it became a peace agreement instead.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-179	Madam President, I would like I am curious to know if Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party have heard anyone but Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov say that Swedish alliance freedom serves the country well. Are there any other statements to be made? Madam President, I would like Of course, if we are to be clear with Russia and consistent in our policies, we must also be prepared to broaden sanctions. Is the Left Party ready to stand up for Magnitsky sanctions that encounter systematic corruption and money laundering?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-181	Madam President, I would like Yes, I have a new message for Kerstin Lundgren today. The Left Party is now behind extended sanctions within the so-called global human rights sanction regime to include systematic corruption. This is a new message we are giving. We've been thinking, looking at the proposals that exist and taking a stand– we've landed that it might be a good way to go. On the other hand, there is still a great deal of concern about the legal certainty of the new EU sanction regime. There is a story about, for example, the terrorist listing which I think has shown the problem of pointing out people or organisations too quickly when it then turns out that these are not terrorist organisations. This affected several Swedes in the early 2000s. They were severely affected by this, financially and personally. I believe that the systems of legal certainty that have been built up around the sanctioning regime are not enough today. I hope that together in the Swedish Parliament we can work to develop this in the EU.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-184	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, according to Sweden's intelligence and security services, Russia is the biggest security threat to Sweden, along with Iran and China. In its annual report, Säpo writes that the Russian regime has the intention and ability to seriously weaken Sweden's ability to act, which is reflected in continuous Russian security-threatening activities. Every third Russian diplomat in Sweden is an intelligence officer. In this situation, Madam President, the spokesperson for the Left Party's foreign policy states that the greatest threat to Sweden and the Swedish population is not Russia. ..................................................... So, Håkan Svenneling, why reduce the threat? Why distort the truth?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-187	Madam President, I would like I think that I have been clear both in this debate today and in previous debates, but also in the debate article referred to by Lars Adaktusson. There is a military threat from Russia. But after 200 years of peace in Sweden, I think at the same time that one can say with some justification that it is not likely that a Russian military attack will take place against Sweden. I think that the debate plays out this threat, reinforces the conflict and helps not to create a popular exchange between Swedes and Russians. Instead, they paint it a bit like all Russians pose a threat to Sweden. I am therefore clear that there are other threats to Sweden, which are more likely to become a reality. These include, for example, the climate crisis, pandemics and cyber attacks. In a total defence perspective, Sweden needs to equip itself to meet those threats. We cannot stare the blind at a military attack alone.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-189	Madam President, I would like Vladimir Putin thanks for that answer, Håkan Svenneling. Because that's exactly how it usually sounds from the Kremlin. When Russia annexed Crimea and assassins in eastern Ukraine, NATO is responsible for the deteriorating security situation. When free and democratic states become members of the Western Defence Alliance, NATO equips and expands its territory. With his debate article in Everything and what we just heard, Håkan Svenneling follows a left-wing tradition of demonizing the democratic USA and relativizing the dictatorship in Russia. It's, with an engagement, sad.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-192	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with Lars Adaktusson's description of the policy I am pursuing. I think I have made it clear that Putin poses a threat, above all, to its own people, to neighbouring countries around Russia, as we have clearly seen many examples, and also to Sweden. But that threat must be properly reflected. One must show that it is a daily security threat to those who do not like the regime in the Kremlin or the cleptocracy and its behaviour – to grab assets belonging to the Russian people. I would recommend Lars Adaktusson reading. I would recommend AnnaAnna-Lena Laurén, DN correspondent in Russia for many years, and her book Sammetsdictaturen. She points out precisely how to hit the civilian population and how to be an authoritarian state, but not a totalitarian state, such as North Korea and Iran, which are clear examples of such. Sometimes it takes a little common sense, too.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-194	Madam President, I would like The Despotin in Moscow, not the Russian people, is today a serious international security threat. The killings in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea illustrate what the strong Russian armament aims at. There is no doubt that the ambitions of the Putin regime go far beyond the borders of their own country. In the Middle East, Russia's actions contribute to war and serious destabilisation through direct support to the regimes of Syria, Iran and Libya. In the security-threatening activities carried out in Sweden, Russia, together with China, is the biggest threat. Madam President, I would like In order to protect against authoritarian powers, politically and militarily, international cooperation is a must. At the same time, it is important to be clear in this situation. None of the agreements that Sweden currently has in the field of defence contain any promises of external assistance. We are talking about increased uncertainty. We see Russia developing. We know that a sharp situation somewhere in the Baltic Sea region affects all the countries in the region. Yet, Madam President, Sweden is without defence guarantees. It is high time to change this. If it is something this debate has shown, it is that Swedish membership of NATO is more important and more urgent than perhaps ever before.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-199	Madam President, I would like On 10 July this summer, the mandate of the United Nations, in accordance with the resolution which allows the UN to bring humanitarian aid to Syria, goes to those areas that are not controlled by the government side. In the past four border crossings were open, including Rabia from the Iraqi side, a crossing point from Jordan and also one from Turkey into the non-Asad controlled areas. Last year, Russia and China forced the UN to close three of these four border crossings. Now there is one left; it goes into Idlib and is the only way to bring humanitarian emergency aid to the enclave which today contains an estimated 4.2 million Syrians, many of whom are internally displaced people. Now Russia is threatening to block the possibility of continuing to keep this border crossing open in the UN Security Council quite soon. This means that the only way to get help to Idlib will be through Damascus. Everyone understands that it won't work. There is not a single bag of flour coming in for Idlib, where 4 million civilians are right now. This action by Russia at the UN risks creating another humanitarian meltdown in Syria. In addition to human suffering, the result is increased pressure on the UN, on neighbouring countries and, by extension, also on Europe and Sweden. Madam President, I would like When we discuss Russia, there is often a discussion about our neighbourhood. It is perfectly understandable, because the map now looks as it does. But we must also see how Russia is destabilising developments in the Middle East and its consequences.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-205	Madam President, I would like Sweden's international collaboration with Russia concerns broader democracy, human rights, the environment, climate and gender equality. Sida's continued work and presence for increased self-sustaining relations between countries is crucial, especially when Russian citizens cannot enjoy fundamental human rights and freedoms. The general security situation has deteriorated, and Sweden has therefore had reason to look at its own house. Sweden has established the Swedish Agency for Psychological Defence and the National Center for Cybersecurity. Sweden also strengthens civil and military defence in accordance with the defence decision we have taken in the Riksdag. Democracy indices are falling worldwide, human rights are being violated and people are becoming less free. This is an example of Russia. Democracy, however, is not created by reinforced defence budgets alone, but by respect for people and their rights. To conclude, I would therefore like to look away from the Russian state and our own security policy needs and people's everyday lives in Russia. What can we do to contribute to positive change, to support the good forces that exist and to encourage cooperation where it is really needed in civil society, democracy, gender equality and environmental and climate issues? It is through successful work in those areas that the security policy threat from Russia can eventually be reduced. We must give all the support we can to those forces in Russia who want to see a different future. Support for civil society and free media is extremely important. Our reference to the Russian state must not mean that we suffocate support for the forces that must be the basis for change. It is important to distinguish between the Russian leadership and the Russian population, where civil society, which is under severe pressure from the authorities, needs increased support.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-210	Madam President, I would like I have previously praised Camilla Hansén for the new Green Party, which pays tribute to increased defence spending. I'll do it again. I think it is good that you have joined that group of parties in the Swedish Parliament. One of the posts of the Green Party in the unfortunate red-green government, in my opinion, is the post of Minister for Development. We know that there are groups in Russia that are fighting for democracy and human rights – this was shown in the correspondence between Håkan Svenneling and the undersigned. But there are also such groups outside Russia. More and more people are being forced out. This applies not least to Belarus, where exile stations have been established in both Poland and Lithuania. My specific question is: what is the Green Party trying to do to facilitate and help those in exile too? I asked a question about this to the Minister for Development some time ago and received a very cryptic answer. Could Camilla Hansén be a worshipper so that we could do something for the exile groups as well?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-213	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for your praise! Nevertheless, we should be clear that what we are doing is negotiating what needs to be done, agreeing and standing up for the decisions taken. That's how I and the Green Party think it should work. Then we are a party that wants to see military disarmament in the long term. What we want to see is a more peaceful world where there is no need for increased military spending and more weapons. We do not want to export any more weapons to conflict. We don't think any more weapons will lead to more peace. As far as support for exile groups is concerned, I am afraid that if the Minister for Development gives one in Wallmark's rather cryptic response, I will probably not be able to make that clear straight away. But it is of course important to support democracy fighters wherever they are. If you belong to the democratic opposition and flee abroad, you still need support.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-216	Madam President, I would like The conflict between what the Green Party is doing in the government and what the Green Party is writing in its programmes, you will probably have to resolve for yourselves within the Green Party. The message that Camilla Hansén is giving here in the speaker's chair is a good one, but I wish that the Green Party could be a driving force within the government in terms of how we on the ground could provide support and assistance to various exile groups. Madam President, I would like Let me give you a concrete example. Riga has the Stockholm School of Economics, which has a journalist programme that trains talented media representatives and reviewers in terms of conditions in Russia and in Belarus. It is about small sums of money in the aid budget, and that is precisely why they may just disappear. They have pointed to the Swedish Institute as responsible and so on. Is this not a typical example of what would really be needed in these times, i.e. investigative journalists, people who are outside Russia and Belarus but can still follow what is happening? Wouldn't this be a good project for the Green Party to run within the government?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-220	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that you can keep several thoughts in your head at the same time and both see a vision of what society should look like and handle what needs to be done here and now and in collaboration with other parties in the Riksdag, of course. As I said, I understand the increased risk to those who belong to a democratic opposition but are abroad and continue their work. I mentioned in my speech that Russia is one of the world's most dangerous countries for journalists. To support this type of effort seems to me to be a wise idea. Without knowing the exact details of the investments made, I think Hans Wallmark's description sounds positive.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for an interesting post! I think there are quite a few of us who agree that human rights violations can be tackled with whips on the one hand and carrots on the other. An example of a whip can be sanctions. We have now seen how the EU has finally been able to agree on a form of Magnitsky sanctions regime. My question to Camilla Hansén is: What is it that makes the Green Party and the Swedish Government not behind a national Magnitsky sanctions regime? Why should we not even have the opportunity to impose national sanctions in the event of such a need?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-224	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the question! The sanctions legislation in place in the EU is relatively new and has just begun to be applied. I believe that this type of sanctions needs to be imposed together with others in order for them to function effectively. Then I think it is important to follow up, discuss and twist and reverse the way sanctions work, what their effects are and how they will be developed in the future.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-226	Madam President, I would like Of course, it will be more effective if more countries act together. But why is it that we should even have the opportunity to act alone as a country? We have seen that, for example, the Baltic countries, Britain and a wide range of other countries have national Magnitsky laws of different types. What they then have that we do not have is the opportunity to act quickly on. We have also seen that the Baltic states have done so. Why should Sweden not have that opportunity? What is it that prevents the government from doing so that we get that opportunity?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-228	Madam President, I would like I may repeat myself a little, but I still believe that is precisely the great unity. It is also something that I think has marked the debate today: it is important to be able to hook arms and be clear together with various measures. I still think that the Magnitsky legislation and sanction regimes are something to keep an eye on. One should continue to discuss and turn and turn them around and perhaps develop them even more to make them even more effective tools.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-230	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Camilla Hansén whether the Green Party has seen or heard any country claiming that Swedish alliance freedom serves them well, any other country than Russia? Lavrov has said that – we have heard that. But are there any others who believe that Swedish alliance freedom serves them well? Then, Madam President, I would like to continue with Magnitsky legislation. We had success here with the Left Party. I hope that I can get an equally successful response from the Green Party to broadening the Magnitsky sanctions to include systematic corruption and money laundering. It would strike clearly at both Putin and Lukasjenko, Madam President.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-232	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! I will say that I am unsure how often other countries in public discussions are discussing Sweden's freedom of alliance and whether it has served them well. I think you should be careful that it is Sweden that decides what Sweden does. The fact that the Green Party and the government do not want to join NATO is not about what Russia thinks about it. It is about what we think about it and about how we want our security policy to look like. With regard to the success of the Left Party, it is always exciting to hear new news in this House. I'll tell you what I said in the previous line shift. It is a new legislation that is beginning to be used. I think that one should be open to discussing it and that one should evaluate how it works and how it can be used. And it is of great importance that there can be many and that it is within the EU that these sanctions are implemented.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-235	Madam President, I would like It's exciting to listen to Camilla Hansén. There is then no clear example of any other country, alongside Russia, which sees that it is of value to them that Sweden is non-aligned. I hear that Camilla Hansén and the Green Party want Sweden to take a decision on Swedish security policy – of course we think so too. However, Madam President, the Swedish Parliament has stated that a NATO option should be included in Swedish security policy. This is a clear signal of what the Swedish Parliament wants to see. Why does the Green Party not want to listen to the Swedish parliament? And, Madam President, there are a number of countries that have systematic corruption and money laundering in their sanction regimes. Why shouldn't we be in the lead instead of waiting in the end?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-238	Madam President, I would like Nor do I know whether Sweden's freedom of alliance benefits or does not benefit other countries if it is countries that say that they think that Sweden's military freedom of alliance is a problem for them. But perhaps there are examples of what I do not know. It is the government that is responsible for security policy, and there the government parties agree. We do not see a NATO option or NATO accession increasing our security. We want multilateral cooperation that strengthens Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-240	Madam President, I would like Recently, MEPs of the Green Party have strongly criticised the gas pipeline between Russia and Germany, Nord Stream 2. The demand is that the political pressure on the Moscow regime must increase in order to have this project interrupted. At the same time, the Green Party at home, as it were, opposed, together with the Social Democrats, that Nord Stream should be part of the new sanctions against the Russian regime that the EU has just implemented. My question is: what is the matter? Is that the Green Party's critical position in Brussels? Or is it the docile line in Stockholm?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-242	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has for a long time been opposed to Nord Stream 2. I don't think that's a secret. Then I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made the situation clear. One reason is that we do not want to be dependent on Russia in any way, not on Russian gas, nor on Russian uranium. It is also a question that I think you need to be able to answer if you think that nuclear power is important in Sweden. The Uranium comes from somewhere.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-243	Madam President, I would like Yes, but it is excellent if the Green Party is against this and sees the dangers, not least in terms of security policy, of further expansion of Nord Stream 2. But if the party really sees the dangers, it is not possible at the same time to say no to seeing the gas project as such in the light of Russia's increasingly authoritarian and aggressive behaviour in the immediate region. We must put pressure on the Russian regime now, through the sanctions and by calling for a stop to Nord Stream 2. Why don't you want to be in on it?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-245	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs outlined the political and international legal situation within the EU in relation to Nord Stream 2 and also how the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the positions taken by Sweden on the EU Board. After all, it is so – I am sure everyone who works with democracy knows – that it is constant cooperation. It is about finding ways forward together, and it needs to be done in governments, in parliaments and within the EU.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-247	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Europe's relations with Russia will remain complicated as long as Russia continues to challenge our interests and values. We need to act long-term and balanced and with strategic patience both bilaterally and within the EU, the OSSE and the UN. We must continue to highlight Russia's violations of international law and the European security regime. At the same time, we will seek cooperation in areas where it is in our interest, such as the environment, climate, health and trade, as well as further developing support for civil society and inter-people exchanges. I welcome today's special debate on the important relationship with Russia. A broad parliamentary consensus in this important foreign and security policy relationship is a strength for Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-263	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that sometimes things don't quite go as planned, and that's why this is going to be a little late. However, there is no unwillingness in it in any way; I look forward to having a conversation and a dialogue with the Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen. Madam President, I would like Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen has asked me what measures the government will take to ensure that drugs policy is based on science and proven experience. Initially, I would like to stress that I and the government are behind a public health-based drugs policy. This means a drugs policy based on human rights and equal health, where supply limitation and demand reduction are equivalent elements. Actions include prevention, care and treatment, social and health improvement of people with addiction or addiction. The actions shall be based on evidence, proven experience and the best available knowledge. The government's drug policy work is guided by the overall national strategy on alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and nicotine, and gambling, the so-called ANDTS strategy. A renewed strategy for the period 2021 – 2025 was submitted to the Riksdag on 18 March 2021. Action against drugs and drug prevention are priority elements of the strategy. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag regarding the announcement that the Riksdag has addressed to the Government regarding an evaluation of drug policy. This announcement is prepared in the Government Office and is very much a living issue. The government has also endorsed the EU Drugs Strategy 2021 – 2025, which sets out the priorities for EU drugs policy for the same period. The strategy aims to protect and improve the well-being of society and individuals, protect and promote public health, provide a high level of safety and well-being to the public and increase health skills. The gender perspective and the issue of unequal health are integrated into the strategy. The government is taking continuous measures to increase knowledge of the use of drugs in different parts of the population. The Socio-economic differences in drug use among adults in Sweden, recently presented by the Central Association for Alcohol and Drug Information, CAN, show how drug use looks in different socio-economic groups in the adult population, which has not been studied before. The knowledge that existed in the past relates to young people's drug use in Stockholm. The studies are based on different study populations and have different purposes and approaches, which in turn affect the results of the studies. I believe that drug policy is already based on evidence, proven experience and the best available knowledge. To continue working to ensure that the efforts are of the highest possible quality is and will continue to be an urgent issue for me and for the government.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-269	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy for the delay and am pleased that we are here. I would like to thank the Government for its answer, and I hope that today we will have a nuanced discussion on Swedish drugs policy. I would like to briefly go into the Government's response before I intend to be a little more forward-looking. In his review, the Government says: According to the Government, there was no knowledge that drug use is the highest among those with the lowest income when the Prime Minister, with the support of the Minister for Justice, among other things, stated the following: Djursholm, Danderyd– that's where you have the biggest consumption. ..................................................... "We know" said the Prime Minister in August 2019. After that statement, the National Association for Alcohol and Drug Information carried out a study on behalf of the Public Health Authority, which showed exactly the opposite reality, as the Government pointed out: drugs are most commonly used in poor areas. Dependence is linked to poverty, and those who most often die become homeless and feel sick because of their addiction are the poor. However, the fact that there is such a list of addictions, whether it be drugs, alcohol or anything else, is by no means a new knowledge. According to the Crime Prevention Council, in 2018 nearly six times more drug offences were reported in Rinkeby-Kista than in Danderyd. The Central Association for Alcohol and Drug Information has also recognised this context for several years. Wastewater analysis also does not show that it is in the wealthy areas that drugs are most widely used. This is fully in line with international research. The fact that the wealthy use the most drugs was not something we knew in August 2019. But that is what the Prime Minister knew and was supported by his responsible ministers in this area. This does, may I say frankly, reduce confidence in the Government's statement that her view is that drugs policy is based on the best available knowledge. But now it is not the Government or I who should be the absolute best experts. We are only politicians and should instead base our decisions on the best available knowledge, as the Government so well puts it. Then we come to another question, which is not about what we have done or said up to now, but about what we should do in the future. Politics should be more about the future than history. As I said, the Swedish Public Health Agency ensured that knowledge about the actual use of drugs in Sweden was clarified to the government. This apparently gave the government a better opportunity to listen and take on board the best available knowledge and knowledge on the social distribution of drug use. I understand that the Government appreciates that. Madam President, I would like It is time to listen to the Public Health Agency once again. The Swedish Public Health Agency recommends that the government investigate the Swedish drugs policy, including the criminalisation of its own use that was introduced in 1988 and that has never been evaluated during the 33 years it has existed. The Social Committee has also decided to investigate Swedish drugs policy. The initiative came from the Center Party, which, like the other parties, wants to see fewer people using drugs. But we also want, and this is extremely important, Madam President, to see fewer harm to those who still use drugs, even though it is illegal. Madam President, I would like I do not question the harmful effects of drugs. On the other hand, I question whether we should continue to accept the harmful effects that today's drugs policy will continue to have. Not least, I question the fact that the Government and the Government refuse to investigate whether the harmful effects of, among other things, European records of drug-related deaths are to some extent caused by the current drugs policy. As I said, Sweden has the highest drug mortality rate in Europe. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether it might be that there are other countries that have a better policy in this area to save lives. If that is the case, would the Government want to be open to allowing researchers to examine without reservation what the best available knowledge is when it comes to saving the lives of those who have an addiction disease? Does the Government also want to give its view that the Public Health Authority actually recommends an evaluation of the criminalisation of its own use?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-281	Madam President, I would like I think this interpellation is important, as is the debate and discussion, and I would like to give a background to why I think it is important. I grew up in Rågsved in southern Stockholm in the 70s. At that time, Rågsved was characterised by drug abuse, crime and great poverty. A couple of months ago, I went back to my home country and my childhood Rågsved and found that today's Rågsved is still characterised by drug abuse, crime and great poverty. The only difference is that you are no longer called Larsson or Svensson. The name is Abdullah or something else, because the district has changed ethnic character. But poverty, drugs and crime remain. I understand that this interpellation stems from a discussion about whether the Prime Minister has placed the responsibility for drug abuse on the wealthy and that this is what has provoked the interpellation. I think we need to have even more knowledge in this area. I note that the districts of Rågsved, Tensta and parts of Botkyrka are characterised not only by poverty and crime but also by being crippled by mafia gangs, by people who shoot people, who are a great pain to the population of those districts. What drives the mafia that plagues mankind? Is it the strong purchasing power of the residents of Rågsved who run the mafia? Or could they be the ones sitting on Stureplan and party junkies? Or are those in the villas in Lidingö who can afford to buy drugs at a high price? I think it is the latter that drives the mafia, drives demand and drives up the prices of such products. I think that when the Prime Minister makes demands on those people, they must realise that it can be nice and perhaps fun to use drugs in a restaurant at Stureplan, but it has effects on the shootings in Sweden and the insecurity of such residential areas. That is what the government and the Prime Minister are right to try to point out. Does the Government share that view? Is it commercial demand that drives the criminal problems of drug trafficking? Is it the case that the well - to - do demand for drugs can have a bearing on shootings in Tensta and Rågsved?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-288	Mr President, I would like to I thank both the interpellant and Dag Larsson for their commitment to this issue. I really think the question deserves that. I'll try to describe the difference between the different studies. It is clear that it matters if you refer to a study conducted in 2019 by Brå with a Stockholm perspective. They're not comparable. The short analysis of the report from Brå is that it deals with secondary school students in the City of Stockholm. It highlights on behalf of the Social Administration in Stockholm what it looked like to students' own use in comprehensive school grade 9 and grade 2 in upper secondary school. Then there is CAN's study, which is much more extensive and which came as late as this year. It is clear that it is new relevant facts, data and statistics to take into account. One main result of Brå's short analysis was that young people in Stockholm areas with high middle income report that they use drugs to a greater extent, while they are less likely to be suspected of drug offences. For young people in Stockholm areas with low average income, the opposite was true, i.e. they were more suspected of drug offences but used less. I cannot disagree with that analysis and study, as Mr Brå did, but there is, of course, something in it. At the same time, there is a main result of the CAN study that says that there is no support for the existence of a specific socio-economic group that contributes to the majority of drug demand in Sweden and thus to drug-related crime. However, the CAN study also shows that groups with lower education and income and those outside the labour market have a more frequent and therefore probably a more problematic use of drugs compared to groups with higher education and income or working life. At the same time, I am well aware of the discussions that are taking place. There are drugs throughout society, and there may be a practice that can be hidden for quite a long time. That is also why, among other things, the Committee on Social Affairs believes that it must be easier and more accessible to get the care and treatment needed to break an addiction. Sometimes you get caught with the addiction you know about many times yourself. I'd also like to send you some new facts in the case-- I was about to say, but that's not what I meant. The National Board of Health and Welfare presented a report in April 2021 showing that the proportion of the population receiving or seeking treatment and support for drug-related problems in both social services and healthcare has increased over the past ten years. In health care, the increase is up to 40 per cent. It is an increase that may have several reasons, but I think it is relevant and interesting that we can immerse ourselves in them and see what they are due to. I continue to argue that we have a drugs policy in Sweden based on experience and the best possible knowledge. But of course it needs to be followed up all the time. I think that all the work carried out to prevent, intervene early and have as low thresholds as possible for care and treatment is incredibly central. It is also my view that there is a coherent picture in the Parliamentary Social Committee of the fact that it is about care and treatment. We must understand that, for an abuse, regardless of the letter of the ANDTS, the help and support needed and not infrequently treated must be obtained early on. Abuse has devastating consequences for the individual's life, for the family, for the family and for the ability to support themselves and keep their jobs. We can come back to the issue of the Public Health Agency and other authorities. Of course, many are experts in different ways. These could be expert authorities on issues relating to ANDTS, not least drugs policy. Authorities believe that evaluation should focus on public health, equal health and healthcare.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-297	Mr President, I would like to I will try to live up to the public health authority's calls on this issue, and I hope that the Government will do the same. Thank you again for your answer. One thing I would like to raise again is that the Center Party and the Social Democrats share the goal of as few people as possible to use and abuse drugs. But those who already have an addiction disease must receive the best treatment, and that must be the focus on harm minimisation. The most important thing is not that they end up with drugs even if they want to, but the most important thing is that we save lives and that those people have a good life and not get hurt. Of course, it is best for everyone to stop using drugs, but for those for whom it is not possible, zero vision and criminalisation is not an aid without an obstacle. It is therefore good to have the two objectives at the same time as distinguishing between use and abuse. Those who already have an abuse should receive care and support, and others should be induced not to use. It is therefore crucial that drugs policy looks at these objectives. Is today's policy doing it well? Is it best for a person who has an addiction disease that we regard that person as a criminal? Or is it better to say she's sick? I think the best thing to do is to say that she's sick and needs medical attention. If a person has a disease, is it not reasonable to examine what can be done to reduce the barriers to help? Is it good to criminalize the person so that she knows that society wants to punish her for her illness? I don't think so. The Government considered that the use of drugs in Sweden is increasing. It has surprised Noah, and its use is increasing at all ages. The drugs are easily accessible in Sweden and are used in all parts of society. This is already the case with criminalisation. Therefore, many people say that we should not criminalise the people who have an addiction disease. Who says you shouldn't? In my view, it does not have to be controversial to evaluate a policy that has been in force for 30 years but has never been evaluated. Nor does the Narcotics Police Association, the Public Health Authority or the UN consider this to be the case, but the Government considers this to be the case. The Government pointed out earlier that she is open to evaluating drugs policy based on the initiative taken by the Social Affairs Committee. But, Mr President, looking at a house to see if it has been built properly but refusing to look at whether the foundation of the house is stable is not a good way to evaluate the safety, safety and functioning of the house. It's just not very smart. If you want to look at whether something works, the foundation is most important, and the basis for Swedish drugs policy is decriminalisation. It is therefore necessary to be transparent in order to be able to evaluate it in the context of the evaluation that is to be carried out. The Government highlights words such as gender equality and human rights. Let me point out, then, that those who have addiction and who use drugs to a much greater extent are prostitutes and live on the street. Is it equal and equal? I do not think so. Recently, one woman reported that she had been raped but denied compensation because she was under the influence of drugs – because of today's legislation. Is it equal? I do not think so. As far as human rights are concerned, the UN has pointed out that Sweden does not live up to human rights in this area. Amnesty International agrees. If we agree that the best available knowledge should be the basis of the drugs policy, the Government, why is it so important to prevent the unconditional investigation of what this knowledge shows about how we can get more out of their addiction disease?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-306	Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. I sometimes meet an association called Brukarföreningen Stockholm, which has its premises just south of Globen in Stockholm. It's an association that's making amazing efforts to help drug addicts and drug addicts – and they're also brave enough to have a discussion where they themselves deal with drug policies and other things. When I talk to them about all sorts of things, I find that sometimes we disagree. Among other things, they are pushing the issue of decriminalisation, and I do not agree with that. But they also clearly say that perhaps the biggest concern they have is the lack of care. When a person is motivated and feels that it is time to try to do something about the life situation, Region Stockholm does not put up with the necessary substance abuse care. I would like to hear some comments on this from the Government. I am pleased with the efforts made by the government to extend the syringe exchange programmes. I know that there has been great resistance in parts of Sweden, and I think it is reasonable and right to restrict the municipal veto and ensure that there are opportunities to work with this. I think that it should be ensured that syringe exchange programmes are launched in all regions of Sweden. That is not the case today. I am also pleased and proud of what the government has done with regard to naloxone and hope that there will be more action on this point. For it saves lives in general. Above all, however, I would like to support the scepticism that I know the Government is feeling about decriminalisation. As an old Rågsvedsboy, I know that the comrades in my class would not have benefited from decriminalisation; it would only have led more people to go into hashish abuse and thus end up on the sloping plane down against drug abuse and misery.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-311	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying not least to the interpeller that I do not agree that decriminalisation of own use is at the heart of Swedish drugs policy. I believe that we have a huge range of efforts and an approach to drugs policy which we should not fundamentally change. However, if the issue were to be very specific and purely decriminalised, I would like to point out that the Committee on Justice certainly has a great deal to say about it, as do my colleagues on that side. It is a criminal matter. I would also like to say that Swedish drugs policy is not about us bringing in as many people as we can. That's not what it looks like. Among other things, a person may actually be sentenced to care, which may sometimes be what is required when he does not take his own initiative. You still need to have that with you when you say that you don't think it should be criminal to have only some drugs for your own use on your pocket. The Public Health Agency does not specifically say that it believes that its own use should be decriminalised, just so that it is clear. There is also no majority in the parliamentary social committee that has issued an announcement to decriminalise its own use, but wants to make an evaluation. As I said in my answer, I share the view that Swedish drugs policy absolutely needs to be evaluated in order for us to constantly learn more. At the same time, it is not the case that, pending major evaluations, we are not monitoring the state of knowledge. I would still like to oppose that picture. I would also like to say that we have a relatively high mortality rate. I think everyone is very well aware of that. However, I think it should be said in this context that we also have a low use in Sweden. It is not that Sweden stands out and has a high use. We can see that it is increasing in some groups and areas, but we should not describe it as having a high use, a high mortality rate and a runaway development that is negative. We sometimes highlight our neighbours, and the fact is that there is a higher use of drugs there. Thinking about how to get someone not to start is a perspective you can have. I feel very strongly about it, and it is also the entrance to the ANDTS bill we have left for risk day. We have a children's and young people's perspective: what signals are sent, and what is the approach? Just as Dag Larsson describes, the question is what it does to young people who are actually in a situation where they end up on the wrong track. What kind of signals do you send? I don't think you should underestimate it. These issues are not always easy to look at in international comparisons, because countries of course have different attitudes, culture and history. There are many things that affect this. When it comes to getting someone to stop, however, I do not think that the way forward is to lock people up, but it is about care and treatment. I would really like to highlight not least one of my predecessors, Gabriel Wikström, who took major steps that had not been taken before. We now have a naloxone programme that has reduced mortality by the possibility of overdosing, and that work must continue. I think it would be a pity if criminal matters such as the decriminalisation of own use were to take precedence over the success of successful care and treatment. In fact, it is what reverses overdoses and saves lives, although it may not always cause someone to stop. This also applies to needle replacements, on which there was a veto from the beginning. The fact that it was removed means that more regions now have it, and some have it in several places. Of course, it needs to be adapted to the shape of care, the size of the region, and so on. There are still some regions that I really hope are approaching this. I would also like to say that I do not think we should talk about drugs policy as if it were just about criminal law provisions or obstacles and borders between different principals or between municipalities and regions. This is about the equal value of all people. It's about a way of looking at people who haven't got the best conditions. I would strongly argue that when we talk about co-morbidity and mental ill health combined with drug abuse and addiction, it is not always the case that society stands with open arms and says, "Here you can get the care and treatment you need!" .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think we should address this much more than just turning it into a criminal matter.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-320	Mr President, I would like to I must begin by saying that I agree with the Government. No one's telling us to decriminalise. I'm not saying that, and that's not what the Center Party says. What we are saying is that when we talk about evaluating an entire area of knowledge, it is a little remarkable that the minister responsible for this area actively goes out and says that it is knowledge that you do not want to take on board. Researchers say: a serious mistake would be to exclude the criminalisation of drug use from the forthcoming investigation, which would leave important questions unanswered. We also doubt that some serious scientists will want to participate in a rigged investigation. So it is Sweden's leading researcher in the field who says so. At the same time, the Public Health Agency says that you have to investigate the whole policy and not just some parts of it. As has been said, this has not been investigated in over 30 years. All we ask is that the Minister does not rule out the possibility of looking at how the current legislation affects the outcome of Swedish policy. If there is a road section where many die in traffic, the government is not afraid to look at whether the speed limits may need to be changed or whether the road should be built differently. When we have a large number of shootings, the whole legal policy is being examined to reduce the number of victims. Why can we not do the same when it comes to the fact that we have Europe's highest drug mortality rate? Then one is suddenly unwilling to examine the whole of politics. Some parts you definitely look at, but there are also parts where you say you don't want to take in the knowledge. That is what is remarkable. As Minister of Social Affairs and responsible for the health and care of citizens, the Government believes that whoever has this particular disease should be designated as a criminal, and we must not question that at present. All calls to examine whether this is really the best way to help a person with an addiction are rejected. What I wonder is how this happened, Mr President. I would therefore like to put one final question to the Government: why is it that the preservation of criminalisation is more important than that we are sure that we are giving the very best care to and have the best policy for those who are dying of addiction today?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-325	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that, if it had been specifically about decriminalisation of own use, the interpellation would probably not have landed with me but with my colleague at the Ministry of Justice, because it is a criminal matter. I would also like to emphasise that health and treatment issues are incredibly relevant when we talk about having a drug policy that saves lives. We have taken steps in recent years that I think we are talking about too little. We need to follow them up and evaluate them, and I would strongly argue that we should continue along that path. It cannot be that we feel satisfied where we are. As far as the evaluation of Swedish drugs policy is concerned, it is being prepared in the Government Office, as I said in my reply. We will come back to how best to do this. We will, of course, look and learn. However, since the interpellation was not specifically concerned with decriminalisation of own use, I do not intend to go further into it, but I note that it is a sensitive issue. It actually sends signals in different directions, which I think Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen is aware of. It is clear that, on the one hand, it plays a role and is important for those who are trapped in an abuse and, on the other hand, it sends some signals in our society. We have a position that says we want to be restrictive. We have a high mortality rate, yes, but we also have lower use compared to many other countries. It is not just a question of putting the facts and asking experts, but I would say that there are a lot of questions about what perspective you have. Shouldn't you start-- how should you stop? As Minister of Social Affairs, I want to focus on health care and treatment and on how we can learn from others. Sometimes countries are mentioned that do very many different things at the same time, and what is actually the conclusion of one and the other is not simply to be seen. I think we should recognise that there are some policies in this but that decriminalisation is an issue that is not least criminal and lies with the Committee on Justice.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-330	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked the Minister for Gender Equality and Housing with responsibility for urban development and the work against segregation and discrimination if the Government will act for the establishment of a Swedish childhood guarantee and if so, what content it will have. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government's efforts to improve the situation for children span many policy areas. It is about children's rights, school, health care and social security. It is also about labour market policy, social policy, housing policy and criminal policy. It's about how we organize our whole society and how we want it to develop. The issue cannot therefore be reduced to a proposal from the European Commission to establish a European Children's Guarantee or be summarised as a zero vision or a special government guarantee. Among the concrete issues raised by Mikael Eskilandersson in his interpellation, shortcomings are mentioned in family home placements. It is a matter of priority for the government, which last year submitted a bill with legislative measures to the Riksdag to strengthen the security of children placed there. At the moment, proposals are being prepared for a so-called lex Little Heart, and soon the government will also set up an investigation to review the quality of care for children and young people in family homes, at assisted housing, HVB or special youth homes. As with many other issues raised by Mikael Eskilandersson, children's well-being and good growing-up conditions concern large-scale activities that are affected by legislation, resources, organisation and working methods. Improvements cannot therefore simply be ordered, but must be developed, evaluated, reviewed and further developed in a step-by-step manner. I welcome the initiatives of all parliamentary parties for this work.
i-U8jgaUB9Br4q2DQqQVPxp5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! One can consider why development is consistently going in the wrong direction if the government now has such a broad focus and is working on the situation for children on all fronts. Improvements cannot easily be ordered," says Lena Hallengren. I totally agree with that. But it's not going forward. It usually goes backwards. I will come back to this, but first I want to talk about the word childhood guarantee. The first time I heard the word childhood guarantee was 2016. We had a family law conference in the Swedish Democrats, and we had group work. One group was tasked with looking at the problems of vulnerable children and proposing measures. In fact, when the group presented its work, quite obvious things were proposed – quite similar to what the EU is now sketching out. It was about zero tolerance against child abuse, a zero vision of homelessness among children, to quality-assurance and raise the skills of those who work with child rights and various support measures and help for vulnerable children. That is what I think all political parties are actually working for. It was also proposed to put this in a larger package and that that package should be called a childhood guarantee. We further developed this at our family law conference in 2017, and I was given the floor for a childhood guarantee even by the party leadership. The Children's Rights Guarantee was also part of our election manifesto for 2018. Now I am not saying that the European Union has copied the idea of my party or that our childhood guarantee even has something to do with the European Union's childhood guarantee. I note, however, that when we Swedish democrats first discussed a childhood guarantee, I tried to google the word and got no hits at all. Unfortunately, the 2018 elections did not concern childhood guarantees or even policies for the best interests of children. The Social Democrats used their entire election staff instead to spread lies about what my own and other parties really wanted. Instead of child abuse, we had to talk about market rents, which is something we never proposed and which the Social Democrats, after the elections, suddenly wanted to introduce themselves, at least in part. Instead of talking about homelessness among children, we had to discuss whether Denmark's rules for free abortion until week 12 are actually women's oppression. Instead of talking about how we get better at helping vulnerable children, the Social Democrats wanted to discuss whether it is anti-female to want custody allowance and actually meet their own children. The list of strange moves by the Social Democrats in the previous electoral movement can be made almost endlessly. And I think there was an agenda: you did everything you could to cover up your own failure. When the figures point to increased insecurity and increased vulnerability to our children, that policy is not so interesting to discuss. Sweden had felt much better to talk about the very best of children, or, as we then wanted, about a childhood guarantee. Of course, it is difficult, if not impossible, to guarantee something, not least in terms of growing-up conditions. It may be particularly difficult to see the development of society in recent years with growing exclusion areas and child poverty, which has in fact increased almost constantly over the last ten years. I would like an explanation as to when the Social Democrats will turn these figures around.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-344	Mr President, I would like to Now Mikael Eskilandersson from the Swedish Democrats had the chance to talk for quite a few minutes about what the Swedish Democrats think such a childhood guarantee would look like, but instead he somehow lands in an election movement that took place two and a half years ago and where I hardly noted all the Swedish Democrats' proposals to raise children's rights issues. It was also possible, quite immediately after the elections, to ensure that not only has a Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified, but also that it is a law, but it was of course very against, because it would have consequences that Mikael Eskilandersson would be happy to recall. What was the fear of the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming a law? I heard that Mikael Eskilandersson and the Swedish Democrats in 2016 started their work on how to make sure to have a policy for children or children's upbringing – or how it was described. I can guarantee Mikael Eskilandersson that the Social Democrats did not start in 2016. It was more than 100 years ago that we started a job that was about everyone's equal value, the right to schooling, vulnerable children and to expand a preschool that covers everyone. Working for children's rights is something that is a line through the policies that we are pursuing. But now the interpellation is about a very specific question, namely: What is the government going to do with the European so-called childhood guarantee? The reason why I am standing here and not Märta Stenevi, who is responsible for children's affairs, is that this will be placed in the committee of the Council which is under your authority. But does Mikael Eskilandersson want to be in the different perspectives on children's issues I actually recommend that he himself break this down a little and deepen himself in questions like: What does it mean that all children have the right to preschool? What are the consequences when, instead of preschool, we have a custody allowance that means that mothers are at home with their children? What role models do mothers who spend many years at home with their children become instead of going to work? It would be interesting if Mikael Eskilandersson could reflect a little on it. What, then, is the process due to the interpellation that was made and which I assume the interpeller wants answers to? On 24 March this year, the Commission presented a proposal for a so-called European Child Guarantee in the form of a draft Council recommendation. I would like to emphasise – not mainly for the interpeller, but for others who listen, because it is quite complicated what the consequences of this in Swedish politics – that a Council recommendation is not a binding tool but a way for the EU Member States to agree on a direction. If adopted, it does not impose binding obligations, but it is a direction that can be supported. Since March this has been dealt with at official level in what is called Council working groups. This means that so far it is officials from Sweden who have represented Swedish positions within the framework of the mandates that exist from the Swedish Parliament. The Council recommendation has not yet been dealt with at political level, which makes it a little difficult for me to answer very specific questions about it. But it will happen on 14 June, when I or any of my colleagues will represent the Swedish line. This meeting is based on two steps: on the one hand, it was preferred by my Secretary of State for the Social Affairs Committee on 20 April and, on the other, it will be preferred to the EU Board on 11 June. By doing so, the Swedish position is anchored by all parties of the Riksdag, including the interpellant.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-353	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I prefer to take the child's perspective rather than take an adult perspective, as the government unfortunately too often does. With regard to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it was not a problem that it was not a law before. The problem was that it wasn't followed. We had an obligation to follow it even before it became law. When I sold the childhood guarantee in my own party, I described it as a guarantee of a product, such as a car. No one can guarantee that it will never be wrong, but if problems and errors arise that become known, we as a society should act. Then we will do everything we can to correct the errors and create a life that is as decent and functioning as possible with the best interests of the child in focus. That's how it was posted. Then the childhood guarantee contains a wide range of measures, which I regret to be unable to explain in three minutes, so I can refer to our motions if you want to go into each individual proposal on which the childhood guarantee is based. The important thing is that we do not initially build problems into the system. For me, it is important that the child has his or her rights satisfied. And it can be repeated: Children are entitled to parents, but parents are not entitled to children. The important thing is the rights of the child. I know that the government is happy to talk about the best interests of the child, but unfortunately it sounds rather false when you read the proposals put forward. Right now we are dealing with a couple of proposals in the civil committee, and it is striking how the government persists in an adult perspective. Among other things, it concerns parenthood for married homosexuals, where the child's right to his or her biological parents is ignored. For the government, it is the right of adults to the child that is clearly more important than the child's right to his or her parents. There is also a proposal to introduce the identification of paternity electronically, and there is also a clear adult perspective. This should be done only after the baby has been born. Why? Why don't you solve the problem before? From the child's perspective, the best thing should be if parenting is done when the child is born. We want to begin to establish paternity as early as possible in the process, even in the first contact with maternal care or midwifery. In the vast majority of cases, there is no doubt about who is really a father. Then there is no need to wait until the child is born and expose the child to the risks of what may happen on the road and complicate it. A previous investigation and a determination of paternity long before the child is born is the best from a child's perspective, and it is also the best for the prospective parents. On Wednesday, we sent three announcements to the government, and all three proposals are in the Swedish Democrats' childhood guarantee. These are knowledge-raising measures for those who work with family law issues, the possibility for the social welfare committee to obtain information without the consent of the guardian and it is about quality assurance of custody investigations. These are all things that would be generally beneficial for children. I wonder why the Social Democrats are waiting to do things like this. You just wait, even though you've been in government for a very long time. In the last ten years we have only seen how things have actually gone downhill in terms of children's situation in Sweden. They are exposed to more violence and are generally less well off, unfortunately.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-363	Mr President, I would like to Sweeping terms are probably not news in themselves in a debate with Mikael Eskilandersson. It will be difficult to have a really good discussion if it is about children's right to a parent and not the right of a parent to a child. These are issues that lie within the Committee on Civil Liberties and on which Mikael Eskilandersson certainly has views, and I am convinced that my colleagues too have. But I am not responsible for those issues specifically, so it will be very difficult to have a really good discussion about knowledge-raising measures and so on. When it comes to the question of confidentiality, I think that Mikael Eskilandersson actually realizes that it is a very difficult issue, but it is not that it is not being worked on. I think that Mikael Eskilandersson should devote his final reply to telling all children who wonder why the Swedish Democrats did not think that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become a law. Children's rights organisations in Sweden and around the world are pushing as one of their most important issues to have a broad and clear impact on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and not to make it an optional issue. When the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now law in Sweden, it becomes even clearer what knowledge you should have when working in authorities and organisations and in contexts where you meet children and what obligations you have. It is also clear that we put this in all the investigations – it can never be missed – it is being tried in court and so on. What, then, is the reason why it is so important to have a broad perspective on children's rights but that the Convention on the Rights of the Child did not have to become a law? I still cannot understand how one can stand here and argue that one goes in a direction where one puts children first but that the Convention on the Rights of the Child did not have to become a law.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-369	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, I think I gave a pretty clear explanation just now. The Convention on the Rights of the Child applies regardless. We signed it back in 1989 or when it was, so it has been valid for a lot of years. The problem is that we have not adapted the other legislation to it. Now it has been introduced as a law. Then it suddenly clashes with a lot of other laws, and that has still not been corrected. What really worries me is the long-term development in Sweden. You can live with that everything is not perfect if you still see that it gets better every year, if society gets a little safer, the economy a little better and the children a little less vulnerable. But that's not the case. On the contrary, we see that developments are going in the wrong direction. Child poverty does not tend to decline steadily. On the contrary, it has increased, according to SCB, in the last ten years. The same is true of violence and crimes against children. There is no downward trend. A few years may show a decline, but over the last ten years the trend is clear. It's increased by 29 percent. Worst of all, it has also mainly affected the younger children. The biggest increase in abuse offences against children is about children under 14 years of age. We like to think that Sweden is the best in the class and that the problems are small, but the reality shows something else. I am convinced that Sweden also needs to take a strong stand against the problems, and a childhood guarantee is a possible way forward. My daughters will soon grow up. The oldest is almost 21 and the youngest turned 15 a week. What really scares me is the fact that my grandchildren are at greater risk, compared to my children, to suffer from child poverty as well as crime and violent crime during their childhood. We actually have to do something about that, and we really have to do that.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-374	Mr President, I would like to I think it was an interesting perspective towards the end to talk about child poverty, because children are not poor. It's their parents who are poor. It is not children who do not have a job to go to, who do not earn a living and who cannot afford to pay rent and food. What, then, is labour market policy? How do we ensure that we provide opportunities to get an education, to learn the language, to have the opportunities for entry into the labour market that you may need to support yourself and your family? Child poverty should not be burdened with children, but it really has to do with all other policies. We can see over the past year, a little bit more, how incredibly many efforts the government has presented together with the cooperation parties to ensure that people do not become unemployed, that economic activities do not fail and that social security systems are kept to the measure. Please discuss these issues and not just in the midst of the pandemic, but stand up for them in the future and ensure that welfare gets the necessary resources! Do not give priority to anything other than health care, care and school that creates a safe life and provides the conditions for public Sweden to actually provide support and support to the children and young people who so need! Class perspective and socio-economics – I am happy to have that debate every day with the Swedish Democrats.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-379	Mr President, I would like to Per Ramhorn has asked me what I and the government intend to do to shorten waiting times for people suffering from prostate cancer. Cancer care is an important issue for the government. The Government and Sweden's municipalities and regions, SKR, have reached an agreement to continue working in 2021 for a more equal, efficient and accessible cancer care. The Government has granted SEK 600 million in 2021 for this work. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer disease in Sweden and the most common cancer-related cause of death among men. Around 120 000 Swedish men live with the diagnosis, and the rate of birth increases sharply with increasing age. The statistics show that the survival of cancer patients is increasing, also in patients with prostate cancer. But there are still major challenges in the area of prostate cancer. The single most important measure for a more equal and accessible cancer care is the standardised care processes, so-called SVF. Since 2015, the government has supported the introduction of 31 SVF in cancer care covering over 95 percent of all cancer diagnosis. Of all cancer patients in 2019, 70 percent were investigated according to a SVF, which is in accordance with the target level for 2020. Through SVF, more patients now have an equal, structured and coherent investigation process for cancer – all over Sweden. SVF means that for each cancer diagnosis there are maximum lead times that also describe how long each part of the investigation needs to take to be able to be performed with maintained quality, from the suspicion of cancer to the start of treatment. They are not a promised health guarantee but are very high targets for the speed with which the investigation could be carried out. In 2015, SPF was introduced for prostate cancer to increase the conditions for shortening waiting times in prostate cancer care, but it is true that there are still major challenges in this area. The proportion of patients investigated within the maximum lead times for SVF for prostate cancer increased from spring 2019 to autumn 2020 and then dropped again in spring 2021. Those who have waited the longest, i.e. more than 46 days, have, however, become fewer since 2019. The fact that patients receive the care they need in a reasonable time is a priority for the government. Therefore, the government also supports the regions' efforts to shorten waiting times in general in health care. To support the regions' accessibility work, the government has appointed Sweden's first national delegation for increased accessibility in healthcare with a focus on shorter waiting periods. The Government has also allocated SEK 3 billion in 2021 to shorten waiting times in healthcare. Covid-19 pandemic causes delayed care needs in many areas, including cancer care. The Government has allocated SEK 4 billion per year for 2021 and 2022 respectively to support the regions in the management of covid-19-related care and deferred care as a result of the pandemic. In an amending budget, the government is proposing an additional EUR 2 billion, which means that a total of EUR 6 billion is earmarked for this purpose. During 2021, the government has paid SEK 78 million to regional cancer centres for their continued work on, among other things, organized prostate cancer testing. There are several purposes for organizing prostate cancer testing. One of the main ones is to make testing more equal and to improve early detection of prostate cancer. In recent years there have been several tests that can complement the PSA test. These additional tests are aimed at reducing the proportion of men who need to undergo tissue testing after PSA testing and thereby reducing overdiagnosing. However, the National Board of Health and Welfare's assessment is that the scientific basis for this needs to be supplemented in order for the Agency to provide a recommendation on screening for prostate cancer with PSA samples supplemented with other tests prior to tissue sampling. Finally, there are ongoing studies, including in Sweden, which examine various methods that could complement the PSA test. Results from some of these studies could be relevant in a new assessment. The National Board of Health and Welfare continuously monitors developments in this area and whether screening for prostate cancer should be re-examined.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-391	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Lena Hallengren for her answer. The reason I asked this question, as you said, is that prostate cancer is the most common cancer in Sweden. Each year, some 2,400 men die from prostate cancer. It's seven times the number of people dying in traffic. As I am sure the Government knows, for many reasons this disease has been somewhat obscured. It used to be the old man's disease. It was often discovered at a late stage, and there were poor effective treatments. But for the last 25 years, something has happened. Diagnosis has improved, which has led to earlier detection of the disease and more can be saved from suffering and premature death. The goal is that no one with suspected prostate cancer should have to wait longer than a maximum of 68 days between referral and treatment. The government has set a target for at least 80 percent of patients to be investigated within the specified lead times. However, according to current statistics, only 17 percent of those with prostate cancer receive treatment within determined maximum lead time. As much as 83% are not being treated on time. In some regions, the situation is even more alarming with even longer waiting times. In Östergötland, only 7% of those affected receive treatment within the maximum lead time. The current situation of long waiting times is inhumane and leads to enormous suffering for those affected, and they can also lead to a worsening of the disease. After all, it is a matter of human life, and people die because cancer is not detected in time and because there is far too much time between diagnosis and treatment. The Government and I agree that Sweden has a world-class healthcare service in terms of medical results. We'll be proud of that, and we'll be proud of the staff, who are doing an amazing job. But too many people wait too long for care. Waiting times have in some cases become almost chronically long. I don't really want to bring it up, but the Social Democrats promised 2014 as an election promise that all cancer patients would receive treatment within four weeks of a referral. Unfortunately, however, this has not been achieved. The question is therefore: why has the government not succeeded better in shortening waiting times in health care, including cancer care? The government has still had seven years. The Government lists a lot of initiatives the government has made in this area, and a lot is great. I admit that the role of the Government is not quite easy, but obviously the efforts are not enough. The queues are still there, and people get hurt. In fact, waiting times for several of the most common cancers, such as colon cancer, rectal cancer, lung cancer and prostate cancer, have been affected very little or not at all by the efforts the government has made. What, then, are the patients who suffer from prostate cancer to do? Should they be forced to wait in a care queue and risk getting worse? Are they going to wait and hope for the best? Or should they take their savings, if they have any, and go to Finland, for example, and receive private care there? You can get help there within a week. Other countries have succeeded better, including our Nordic neighbours. Shouldn't we be as good as they are?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-405	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Per Ramhorn for an incredibly important issue and an important discussion. It is called an interpellation debate, but in this type of question there is certainly reason to have a conversation, a dialogue and a reasoning. I have met this issue for many years, both as a member of the Social Committee and now as Minister of Social Affairs. I do not share the view that many other countries are doing better. Sweden succeeds very well when it comes to SVF and cancer care – if we are to stick to it. We now share a super challenge with large parts of the world after prioritising covid care and emergency care and the resulting care debt. However, I will leave this issue, if that is okay. There may not be so many interested outside the Chamber, but it is still the case that the regions are the principals of Swedish health care. What can the government do? We can look at skills and resources. It is also about coordinating regional cancer centres so that they get the right conditions and ensure that there are guidelines, guidance and knowledge support. As I said, SVF was introduced in 2015, also for prostate cancer. I am not saying that another government would not have wanted to do so, but since this is often put on the knees of the Social Democrats, I think it should be noted that it was done quite early by the Social Democratic Government which then took over. When it comes to SVF and cancer diagnosis, it is indeed an area where we want high targets and say that you should have care within four weeks. We're not that far from here. It looks a little different, but it is a matter of simply saying that all care cannot and perhaps should not have exactly the same lead time. And it is about, if there are no other shortcomings, squeezing everything, from suspicion to diagnosis, treatment and so on, in a way that makes it equal in the country. We can compare between regions, which I think is a good thing. Much has been done, and I think we have moved the positions forward. It is an election promise from 2014 that has been translated into a truly successful work, where SVF now exists for 31 different diagnoses. We are going to get into prostate cancer, which is what the interpellation is about, but I also want to say that it is not possible to just say that you should have a certain treatment when you have done a PSA test and got an increased protein value. This is what has been the difficulty for a long time – how the PSA test can be supplemented by other types of tests. The risk is that we get overdiagnostic and treat what might not need to be treated, not infrequently with a lower quality of life as a result. I'm asking a lot of questions about this because, like Per Ramhorn, I'm very interested. Sometimes it turns out that the test results are not due to a cancerous tumour in the prostate but to other causes. Then you may need to follow this. The suspicion itself does not necessarily lead to diagnosis and treatment. This makes it sometimes difficult to compare and watch. There may be some who get a diagnosis but want to wait because you do not see that an operation is necessary in that situation. As far as I am concerned, this may sometimes make comparisons more difficult. We want equal treatment across the country. It's important. We need to follow this from politics and not least from the National Board of Health and Welfare, from the experts, in this case regional cancer centres, and from the regions in order to have the best possible knowledge support so that we get the right diagnoses. Those to be treated should be treated within the lead times, but we also need to find safe ways that do not over-treat and impair quality of life in a way that would not be successful or appreciated.
i-JA7TejgcJ3M9h4hY1M9grp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Lena Hallengren, for your answer! As I said earlier, it is well known that the biggest problem in Swedish healthcare is the lack of accessibility. The queues for planned care have grown since 2012, thus even before the current government access. Not receiving care on time is serious and can cause much suffering. It can exacerbate the disease and have ever greater consequences for patients. In some cases, delayed diagnosis and treatment can lead to life-threatening conditions and premature death. Here all become losers: patients, relatives, health care and society at large. Regions have been obliged to comply with the national health guarantee, which has been the law since 2010. In practice, it has worked quite poorly. The queues for planned care are considerably longer now than when the law was introduced. A health guarantee that does not work creates frustration and false hopes. The first question, which I have been asking myself for a long time, is: Is it time to change the current health guarantee or even scrap it and build something new? Yeah, maybe. I think so. You have to do something. The second question, which I have asked myself many times, is: Is it impossible to have healthcare without queues? No, it's not. It is enough to cross the strait to Denmark. There you can see a completely different availability of planned care. In short, their healthcare systems work so that patients can choose hospitals themselves for treatment and investigation. This choice includes public hospitals and private hospitals with which the regions have agreements. Investigation and treatment should take place within 30 plus 30 days. In cancer, such as prostate cancer that we are talking about now, a shorter maximum waiting period applies. If this cannot be fulfilled, the patients' home region should help them to another suitable hospital, just as they do in Sweden. If there were no spare capacity there, the so-called extended hospital choice would enter into force. It includes private hospitals in Denmark but also hospitals abroad with which they have agreements. The Danish health system has meant shorter waiting times, even among the shortest in Europe. Denmark has built up a healthcare system that is fast and efficient, is of high quality and has strong patients' rights to receive paid care, perhaps privately when public care cannot deliver on time. Denmark is, in many respects, a leading country in the area of health care, including cancer care. It was from there that we in Sweden got inspiration for, for example, the standardised health care processes, and we can surely find more good ideas there. Ultimately, this is about the credibility of the social contract. Citizens must pay taxes and comply with applicable laws, but then society and the state must also comply with the laws and regulations that apply to them, such as the health guarantee in the Health Care Act. What makes me really worried is how the care queues will be with the growing health debt that we now have because of the pandemic. Will even more patients, including cancer patients, end up in chronically long care queues? How will confidence in the Swedish healthcare system then be if more and more people have to wait longer and longer? I am absolutely convinced that neither the Government nor I want to see such a development.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-430	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that, with regard to the health guarantee, the SVF goes much further. If we were to refer to the health guarantee, that would be quite different. We have indeed taken steps that mean that it is much tougher. We push the care harder, and we have more knowledge. The way in which we work with cancer care, standardised health care processes, contact nurses and at all the follow-up that exists, the equality we can review the country and the regional cooperation and the collaboration that exists, I would like to describe as a fantastic model, many times. Let's see if we can do this for other diagnoses and in other disease processes. There is no doubt that almost a year and a half of pandemic has meant that large simultaneous changes in care may not have been easy, but that is part of the development. If we said that we would remove the health guarantee, I think it would be perceived as very strange, but we are developing it and making it much faster in areas where cancer care is moving in the right direction. Let me emphasise something when it comes to comparison with Denmark. I'm happy to buy it. I look very much at experiences from other countries. We do that from both sides. I think that's important, but you can't just plagiarism a country's model straight off. In our SVF we already start in primary care, which is not done in Denmark. The suspicion is therefore already included in our standardised course of care, which is important, not least when it comes to prostate cancer. If you go into diagnosis and treatment, you have lost some of the lead time that is so important. I think it is important to say that we have added this. We'll see if they follow in that area. Let me also say that it is, of course, about accessibility, but it is also about socio-economics. We see this very clearly. Women, for example, have significantly lower survival rates if they are low-skilled, 40% for some diagnoses. The risk of illness increases when you have less education, economics and so on. This can be seen in healthcare, and that is something we also need to address. There is absolutely a need for comparisons across the country, but I think it is important that we as health politicians do not stop and say that now we have compared the entire Stockholm region with the whole of Skåne or, for that matter, the whole of Kalmar, but we also have to look at areas and at white spots and think about what they are due to. Even if we have screening, not everyone is buying it. What is it that causes people during the pandemic to abstain? Not only is screening cancelled, but there are people who feel that they do not want to seek care, instead of turning to care and letting them decide. Let me really emphasise the importance of this issue. We are working hard on this, but if there is to be a development, it is a matter of prioritising and doing right around the country and ensuring that you can cope with both pandemic-related care and much more, not least cancer care, which is considered emergency care. When it comes to prostate cancer, it is absolutely not a question of not wanting, but the screening issue is a little more complicated than with breast cancer, colon cancer and so on. For example, we have cervical screening where cervical cancer can be eradicated. If it had been a simple position, and of course if there had been a complete agreement, we would already have been there. But there is reason to really follow this closely and see how to supplement the PSA tests with other types of tests to ensure that this is something to be addressed. The issue is being closely followed, but we shall be watching this. We're going to look at regional differences, and we're going to look at the absolute number of days. But let me also say that there are additional aspects that we need to consider when looking at equal care over the country.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-442	Mr President, I would like to I'll tell you more about Denmark. As the Prime Minister will understand, I have a little preference for Denmark. Since I live in Skåne it is no wonder. This morning I was on the Danish Sundhedsstyrelsen's website because I was a little curious about how long the waiting times are there for examination and treatment for those who have suffered from prostate cancer. In Denmark, there are 16 clinics that take care of these patients. The waiting time for examination is 1 - 14 days to all hospitals. And when it comes to treatment, there is an average of two weeks' waiting time. All hospitals in Denmark thus pass their 30-day limit for the treatment of prostate cancer. It's amazing. Unfortunately, in Sweden so far we can only dream of this timeframe. As I have said before, we need to do things differently in the Swedish health system. Otherwise, I do not believe that we will be able to deal with these chronically long care queues. It will ultimately affect the patients. More people will suffer and even die waiting for care. Nevertheless, I thank the Government for a pleasant debate, and I hope that we can debate these issues again in the future. I wish the Prime Minister a pleasant summer!
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-447	Mr President, I would like to When we look at other countries, we also need to try to translate it into what kind of changes we want to see in Sweden. It's hard to say we're gonna do like that country. Again: We have looked at the standardised health care processes, or pakkef o rl ø b as they say in Denmark. However, I would also like to remind you that we have added this with primary care and suspicion. It is possible that Denmark is also looking at it. But I know you're not really there. Then distance also matters a little. Prostate cancer is the most common diagnosis of cancer, and there is a need that care of it is widespread throughout the country. It is not a highly specialised care that we can have in just a few places. There are some differences between a relatively small country like Denmark and Sweden. It probably also affects some of the differences that we can see. So it matters. When we discuss what changes we want in Sweden, we probably need to describe them quite concretely rather than saying that we should do what you do in another country, because you can think about so many different things. If you do not receive care within the health guarantee, you have the right to apply to other regions. You can also go outside Sweden, but that is not what we should in any way strive for. I think it would be unwise to try to solve the problems that we can have with accessibility in Sweden when it comes to diagnoses and treatments that should exist throughout the Swedish system of foreign care. But that's also possible. I would like to conclude with the question of how people should now be treated. It is incredibly important that we now take it on board in the regions and really make sure that those who have waited for a long time do not have to wait even more. Some of the facts that have been shown are that the number of people who have waited more than 46 days has decreased. Perhaps it is because you have really made sure to get to grips with this and start at the right end. But of course this is incredibly urgent for me, Per Ramhorn and other decision-makers, but above all for those in need of care.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-453	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Olsson has asked me whether I would like to take any steps to resolve the shortage of specialist nurses in intensive care and, if so, what measures. We face major challenges in dealing with both covid-19-related care and delayed care. Strengthening health care staffing is a high priority for the government. During the pandemic, the Council has contributed very large sums of money to support the regions in order for them to be able to take in additional staff. The government's support has helped the regions to carry out several efforts to temporarily strengthen staffing. In addition, the Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to monitor and support the regions' efforts to borrow staff from each other if necessary. We must all help each other in this serious situation. In cases where regions have chosen to allow private actors to carry out a large share of health care, it is particularly important that all actors contribute. However, if the region has not drawn up prior agreements requiring a crisis, the involvement of private carers is voluntary. According to the Stockholm Region, the private health care providers in the third wave have not released staff in the same way as before. The Government considers that it is urgent that all resources can be mobilised if necessary. For this reason, the Government has instructed U on health care preparedness to review how municipalities and regions in crisis could use healthcare professionals who are not employed in the municipality or region on a daily basis. It is quite right that Sweden needs more specialist nurses, even in everyday life. In 2015, the Government therefore launched an extension of specialist nursing training. A further 600 training places per full year have been added to the resources of universities and higher education institutions. This year, an extension of 5 200 additional training places in different shortage professions has been launched. Specialist nursing training with a focus on intensive care is covered by both initiatives. In addition, commissioned education is carried out by specialist nurses where higher education institutions and regions cooperate. The government has also introduced and gradually strengthened the initiative to give more nurses the opportunity to study to specialist nurses through paid education. It now amounts to SEK 500 million per year. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's follow-up to the initiative shows that all regions provide the opportunity for nurses to continue training as a specialist nurse while maintaining their salary. In the follow-up, several regions also report an increase in the number of trained specialist nurses. Since 2014, the rate of completion of specialist nurses in anaesthesia and intensive care has increased by 24 per cent. Furthermore, as of 1 January 2020, the Council has established a National Council for Health Care Competences, which will, among other things, identify, coordinate and streamline the provision of skills for healthcare professionals. The network is currently working on, among other things, promoting increased cooperation between higher education institutions in each healthcare region on specially requested specialist courses for nurses. I look forward to seeing the work of the Council, and I expect the work to improve the supply of skills in health care.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-461	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren for her reply. Our intensive care departments are heavily burdened. This leads to a poor working environment and exhausted staff. It also leads to having to give strict priority to those who get the places that exist. Intensive care in Sweden was already heavily slimmed before the pandemic with relatively few care places per capita. We normally have 5.8 care places per 100,000 inhabitants. Only Portugal across the EU has fewer – 4, 2. The average is 11.5 seats, and Germany at the top has 29.2 seats per 100,000 inhabitants. Mr President, I would like to Why, then, are these facts so important in the debate? Because the places that we have must, in order for the needs that exist to be met, be cared for by people with great competence and be given a high priority to be sufficient. At the same time, today we have the opportunity to make advanced medical and surgical treatments that require intensive care. We also have new major challenges with severe violence and shootings, which have led to gunshot wounds that before 2000 barely existed in Sweden. Last year, 148 people were intensively treated for gunshot wounds in Sweden, and they also use huge resources. Traffic injuries have been reduced, but the gunshot wounds have been added. The increase in the number of young gunshot victims is also a heavy burden on our intensive care departments, apart from the dilemma in general. Mr President, I would like to This is the harsh reality of everyday life in our intensive care departments. The seats are filled and must be staffed with competent personnel at all levels. If you are unable to man the places with people with the right skills, you have the dilemma of denying someone a place or lowering the level of safety and quality. This was the pre-pandemic situation – with approximately 600 intensive care places in Sweden. During the pandemic, the number of iva sites has been increased to approximately 550 of the sites for a period of time in incapacitated covid patients. Almost the entire Swedish resource has during the pandemic had covid patients. How does this make sense? How are you supposed to man the seats? Well, they've had to bring in non-specialised nurses who had to work in teams. They have had to work in a completely different way with a completely new and very severely ill patient group. Surgery has been shut down and anesthesia nurses have been used to man iva. Everything has been done to save lives during the now more than a year long period of the pandemic. Mr President, I would like to However, this cannot continue. Staff are exhausted, and people with the right skills are too few. At the same time, everyone expects that if you are seriously injured, you should receive the care you can demand in a welfare country. The risk of dying because the places are too few has now increased. In the past, we have not had an increase in mortality among the patients who have been intensively treated despite the low number of intensive care places. During the pandemic, however, it has been seen that this has been the case. It is no wonder in the exceptional situation that prevails.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-472	Mr President, I would like to This is a question that has a lot to do with it. Perhaps we are focusing a lot on what applies today. Underlying facts, i.e. that the regions are responsible for how to organise health care and how many intensive care places you set up, is of course something that is familiar to both Lotta Olsson and me. It is not uncommon for this to be a balance. I believe that Lotta Olsson has also met in the dialogue with regional representatives. Having many care days or places does not always provide better health care. Of course, we want people to be in hospitals as much as necessary, with all the specialist skills and expertise that are there. But when you don't have to be there, there's a danger in being in a hospital. There is a risk – I do not need to tell Lotta Olsson with her background, but I also talk to many others – of staying in hospital unnecessarily long. You shouldn't be. We've also worked to get people out of hospitals. There is something in the statistics about how many care places you have per inhabitant that I want to problematize a little. Normally there are 90 iva-sites in Region Stockholm, where there are over 2 million people, and that's not very much. How to think and dimension this must Region Stockholm respond to. This applies, of course, to each individual region. I fully agree with Lotta Olsson that we need more specialists. I do not want to link it mainly to a specific situation now or before. Medical knowledge is progressing. We can and we want to do much more. People expect much more, and then skills must follow. This is why we have expanded the places at our higher education institutions. That's why more students are being examined. We have also given special funding to the regions to enable them to ensure that those who are nurses and who want to train themselves as a specialist are able to receive paid training. We want to continue this development. If I may tell you what the government has the conditions and means to support, assist, facilitate and coordinate at national level what is the responsibility of the regions, I can mention the National Council for Health Care Competence. I look forward to what the Council will come up with as they look at the future needs. In one region, they may look at the situation and think, ‘What is it like in our region?' What staff do we have? Who are we going to train in specialist training? How many are gonna get this chance? Yes! Now we have secured the need for the next decade. Then people move across the county line or into another region and a more exciting job, which is quite obvious. We cannot treat specialist competence as just a regional matter. At the same time, it is the employer who must ensure that the conditions are attractive and that they must take care of their staff. Let me make a short round. The Covid-19 crisis is a disproportionate crisis. To have to do much of what is not normally done puts the staff to the test, and that makes you work in a different way. This is not an organization you need to have in regular cases. This teaches us a lot and demands us all, and we need to work together on this. The ongoing work with more training places, more graduates and paid education is an important way forward. This is also what the government intends to continue with. However, I share the picture of the challenge we have, not least where we are standing right now.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-479	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that this is an exceptional situation now. But if you have extra resources, it will be much easier to manage a real work peak. The government has made efforts to fill in the shortage professions at university level. But you've missed follow-up. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at this and produced a report in February this year. It can be seen that the government has not reached its goal at all in terms of either specialised nurses – where it has gone absolutely worst – or nurses. However, the goal of getting more trained doctors and architects has been achieved, and they have even become more than needed. The target for 2023 has already been reached. It does not help even if you open the cash register and try to create training places. The Swedish National Audit Office has therefore made suggestions on how to deal with this. You have to be tougher and make sure there are internships. Care must be taken to use the resource doctored nurses in a good way. It must be done in such a way that you get through the bottleneck. Another dilemma is that the corps is over-age. It takes a long time before you reach specialist competence. This is the case in all academic professions. Many have time to have both children and grandchildren before they reach the point. As a result, time in the profession is relatively short. Many are over 55 today. They'll be retiring soon. Maybe it's because the corps is old as it has worked during the pandemic. At a regular vaccination centre you can see that they are fights and want to do their best. Many have entered the service now even though they have passed retirement age. But we can't have it this way. We can't build on this. Nor can we blame the fact that health care was private or non-private, or people moving between regions. We have too few overall. As working conditions in Sweden have not been as favourable as in Norway, for example, we have had a drain there. There is therefore a need to look at working conditions and also to educate more people. The vast majority still want to remain in their home country and not be in Norway for too long. I think there's a lot to do. I would like the government not only to open up its wallet but also to tell universities what they have been given the resources for. The regions or individual hospitals cannot and should not be in charge of universities. They are governed by regulatory letters, and it is only Lena Hallengren's function that has the power to control this. I have had a debate on the subject with Matilda Ernkrans in the past. Then she called me a populist when I thought this was a great social danger. However, I would argue that it is. We've built up a medical debt, and a lot of people are waiting for heavy surgeries. I think it is a negligence if we do not follow up on the objectives to which de facto resources have been allocated. You should educate the people you are going to train and not some others that you think are fun to educate. This is a hugely important task for the government.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-487	Mr President, I would like to It will be a little strange if I and Lotta Olsson are to discuss that it is the government's responsibility that there are internships in the regions. Is there somewhere where the regions, our principals, do not organise internships? Lotta Olsson's party friends run the regions. 80% of our inhabitants live in a region where the Moderates and Christian Democrats rule. The government cannot set up internships in specific hospitals, departments and clinics. I'm sure it's not Lotta Olsson's intention to express herself like that, but this is an impossibility. What the government can do is make sure there are more training places. I'm not saying that's enough or that we don't have to do any more. However, it is important to say that those who have graduated as intensive care nurses have increased by almost 25 per cent, from 400 per year in 2014 to 500 per year in 2020. You might think there should be more of them. But where do they go after they graduate? That's the question. However, the government cannot say that a particular person must be employed. We can ensure that there are economic conditions. We can ensure that there are training places. We can have a national healthcare competence council that brings together regions, academia and the parties – in this case SKR – to look at how to do this. We can make visible the shortcomings that exist. We can make demands for internships to be established before you are finished and for specialist training to be possible with paid salary. It is a question of allocating resources, both to universities and to the regions. But in this debate we cannot get away from the fact that the regions are principals. They are responsible for the fact that there are conditions that make you happy to work in Sweden and not for example in Norway. They are the ones who make sure that it is an attractive working environment and that you want to go there. The government cannot set up traineeships in individual clinics and hospitals and in regions. In it there is so much management and health care organisation that there can only be. I would like to say once again that I do not think we should be satisfied in any way. But one must be clear about what is the responsibility of the government and what is the responsibility of the regions. I look forward very much to the National Council of Health Care Competences defining from a slightly more national perspective what the needs look like. I look forward to continuing to expand places at our universities. I also look forward to our continuing to enable our fantastic nurses to have specialist training with paid salary. In general, I believe that anyone who wants and is allowed to work for a longer period of time. I think we agree on that. I am thinking of the issue of vaccination centres and how many are actually pensioners but are now going in there and working. It's great to go in for a while and help when you feel that you can and want to. It's not a problem in itself. It is clear that we are not building Swedish health care on people to feel compelled to come back, but I think that offer has been appreciated by a lot of people. I guess that's two different discussions. Again, what we can do is about training places, resources and knowledge of what it looks like. It is also about making demands and creating opportunities through agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. However, the very work on the organisational structure for employing, for example, doctoral students, offering traineeships and enabling paid training must be put into context, and this must be done by the medical authorities and, of course, on the floor.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-495	Mr President, I would like to Lena Hallengren makes it easy for herself by blaming everything on Stockholm. Stockholm has many of the training places. I come from a social democratic region. We have put down intensive care training there, because there were no teachers at all. You haven't fixed it in the first place. I cannot see that there would be less lack of skills there than anywhere else. You make it too easy when you blame regions. Our universities are, in fact, a government issue. You definitely need internships. Of course, it is also possible to arrange that in some way. And what is the alternative? The alternative is that we don't get this mission done... or like now, that we're gonna go out and ask Italian nurses to come here. This is a mission that we must de facto carry out. I think it will be a somewhat simplistic debate if you just turn it into a matter of private or government function. Stockholm has been given a punching bag throughout the pandemic. I can't see it has worked better anywhere else, for example in the red counties. There I think the Minister of Social Affairs is ducking for his responsibilities. The Swedish National Audit Office has proposals in its report. I wish Matilda Ernkrans, who is responsible for these educations, reads and receives the report and does not call it populism when people are very worried about how it should actually go. We cannot have large, highly specialised hospitals where there are no competent staff. This is a very boring development that is not worthy of a country like Sweden.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-498	Mr President, I would like to I haven't mixed up private and government care. It is Lotta Olsson who keeps trying to come back to the fact that it would be a problem. I am not saying that there is a specific problem in Stockholm either. But I would like to emphasise that the regions have a responsibility. They are responsible for Swedish healthcare. They're employers. The government and the Minister for Social Affairs cannot organise VFU sites in various clinics around Sweden, including Stockholm, but the regions must do so. We can train and allocate resources. We have the National Council for Health Care. We can make deals. We can make sure to provide all the support that exists. But we cannot take over responsibility from the regions, which are heads of Swedish health care. Then you've put the ball all wrong. In that case, the regions have no employer responsibility. Then they need not feel at all responsible for being attractive. Why do Swedish nurses go to Norway? It is not because we have not trained enough people. It must be something else in the organization itself. I believe that each region has a responsibility. But I also think that there is a problem with private care if we have staff who could help, but for various reasons cannot or may not. It may be because it's not agreed. We can have our own debate about it. It is clear, however, that it matters if only parts of the personnel can be used over the country in crisis situations and other situations. I think we can agree on that. I think Matilda Ernkrans will be happy to answer these questions. Apparently, she's done it before, and I'm sure she'll do it again. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you what she would have said. But there are changes at our universities, and we continue with them. However, we cannot train more people than we know that there is an opportunity to get VFU sites to. It is a problem if you give an idea that someone is going to get educated but has not followed this up in the practical reality. Anyone who does not get a VFU position will of course not be a doctor or a specialist nurse.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-503	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me if I intend to take the initiative for a government mission to develop and implement a disease detection phase, whether I am prepared to commission the Public Health Agency to evaluate the Swedish infection detection work, whether I intend to take the initiative for a government mission to review whether the current capacity of infectious pathogens is sufficient and whether I intend to take any other measures to develop the Swedish infection detection work. In Sweden, there are national guides for testing, contamination detection and isolation that have been developed by the Swedish Public Health Agency. The guides are implemented by the regional disease control units. In November 2020, the E-Health Agency was tasked with carrying out surveys of digital support in the disease protection work internationally. The Swedish Public Health Agency was commissioned to map processes in the disease control work nationally. The assignments were presented on 1 April 2021. The report shows that the authorities do not see that a so-called contamination detection app would solve the major challenges in the detection work that vectors and disease protection units face and that the evidence surrounding these apps is inadequate. Digital support should be seen as a complement to existing disease control work and not a substitute for it. However, the Public Health Agency proposes in the report that the regions introduce a digital case management system for infectious diseases, as developed by Region Värmland, and writes that they intend to support the regions to implement this. The Värmland region offers the system free of charge to other regions and establishes an introduction aid. The Public Health Agency coordinates the work. The case management system is developed under covid-19-pandemin, but it can also be seen that it can be developed for use in the detection of other diseases and can thus strengthen the Swedish disease control work. The system can help to increase the effectiveness of the detection of infectious diseases and improve the possibilities for creating common situational images for clusters, outbreaks and risk environments, for example. The Government has extended the agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR, regarding increased testing and contamination detection for 2021 as well. Since earlier, SEK 7.5 billion has been allocated for mainly large-scale PCR testing and contamination detection during 2021. In addition, SEK 1.4 billion has been allocated for the use of rapid tests in both elderly care and health care. The Spring Bill proposes an additional SEK 1.65 billion for large-scale testing and contamination detection, i.e. a total of SEK 10.5 billion for 2021. For 2020, SEK 1 billion was earmarked for infectious detection, and for the first quarter of 2021 SEK 250 million has been earmarked for infectious detection and outbreak management, of which SEK 30 million is for regional joint digital solutions to book testing. The Government and SKR agree that the intention is to extend this investment by the corresponding amount per quarter for the remaining part of 2021, if necessary, provided that the Riksdag allocates funds for the purpose. The disease control work and the detection of infection will be evaluated, as will other interventions during the pandemic. The government has appointed a Commission, the Corona Commission, tasked with evaluating the measures taken by the government, the relevant administrative authorities, regions and municipalities to limit the spread of the virus causing the covid-19 disease and its effects. A second interim report shall be submitted on 31 October 2021 and shall include, inter alia, measures to limit the spread of the disease, the ability of the healthcare sector to manage the virus outbreak, sampling and detection. The government is closely monitoring developments in this area and is prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-510	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation, which concerns the shortcomings that have been in the detection work and also how that work can progress. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the pandemic is not over, although it is now getting a little bright on the horizon because vaccination work is slowly but surely progressing in Sweden as well as in the rest of Europe and the world. We will continue to live with the coronapndemine for a long time and have the virus in our society. Therefore, it will continue to be extremely important that we test and re-test, and that we detect and manage to break infection chains. I have pointed out many times in this House that it has been problematic that the testing started too late in Sweden, that the capacity was not expanded quickly enough and that the infection from it took hold very quickly and became widespread in our society last spring. This is one of the reasons why Sweden has had a very high spread of infection compared with, for example, our neighbouring country, Norway. One thing the European Commission has recommended to the Member States – including, of course, Sweden, Mr President – is that we should develop and implement a digital pathogen. It can be an important tool for saving people's lives and livelihoods, as the Commission states. Mr President, I would like to The Corona virus does not stop at national borders. Now we see that border restrictions can be eased, that mobility between countries can hopefully be increased, that we can travel and visit loved ones who live in other countries, that we can go on vacation and that people can do business and get the economy going again. I believe, Mr President, that it will be even more important for us to have tools and cooperation across national borders that will enable the detection of infectious diseases. In this perspective, I find it worrying that Sweden still has more than a year into the pandemic without a digital infection detection app in place. Looking out over Europe, we are quite alone at this point. Our neighbours Denmark and Norway have it, and Germany has it. The vast majority of countries in Europe do. There are a few countries that do not yet have them, and in those countries work is under way to develop such apps, for example in Belgium and Luxembourg. But Sweden still does not. I would like to ask the Government why the Government does not share the Commission's view that infectious detection apps are valuable and that they can save people's lives and livelihoods and if the Minister does not share my view that tools are important now that we will increase mobility within Europe and across our national borders and that tools that work cross-border are then important. Mr President, I would like to I have another question which I now see I might be able to come back to in my next speech. It's about the number of CDCs. It is a more long-term issue. We can see that Sweden has very few infectious diseases doctors compared to other countries. It is a lesson that we need to draw from this crisis that we need to strengthen disease prevention in different ways, and not least local and regional ones. Then I and the Moderates think it's important that we review the organization and work to get more infectious pathologists in place. That is the reasoning I will have to develop in my next speech.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-520	Mr President, I would like to Well, that's excellent, isn't it? Then I wait for Johan Hultberg to make a small approach about it, so we can take it in the next line shift. I think we should start with contamination detection. I have a little difficulty with the picture that all other countries have the infection detection app and that it works great. That's not exactly what it looks like. If we look at Belgium, it is 2.5% of those who test positive that have used such a disease control phase. Downloading an app is one thing, using it is another. The fact that in such a situation as we are now going into shows that you are testing positive is not really an advantage when you want the opportunity to travel freely. We are, of course, very keen to be able to detect infection and to break disease chains. But it is not possible to rely on people not only downloading but also using the app. In many lands it has been shown that it is not communication vessels. Downloading is one thing. But it is not a country that says: We rely on this. It's about digital solutions. That is why I may have put out quite a bit of a lot of words about Region Värmland and the work that is taking place there. I think it is unwise to deal with the issue of infectious detection and disease protection issues at a regional level, with of course a lot of support from the Public Health Agency, such as the fact that we should have an app. It's a very advanced job that you do. I don't mean that Johan Hultberg suggests it, but it's easy to believe that if we only have one app, we can detect the infection very efficiently. There are traces of cases detected. All regions do. These are the messages I receive from the Swedish Public Health Agency, which in turn has a dialogue with disease protection and the regions. Disease detection is constantly related to the spread of infection in society. Of course, the regions with a greater spread of infection must be able to trace much more. It is a matter of not just looking at recorded cases. It also applies to how successful we are in breaking the disease chains. That's where you've learned in the meantime. Johan Hultberg began by talking about the test capacity, and it is clear that it is absolutely central. The lower the test capacity we have, the less important it is to know that you have been close to someone who is infected. Testing and detection of infection are interrelated. I would like to conclude my speech by emphasising how important it is. That is a good example. What should remain in society? What are we supposed to have for the type of preparedness and action? It is, of course, crucial that you get a good knowledge of who is infected, can path around and build on with further testing. I have one minute of my speaking time left. I want to touch on this with individuals who are contagious. It's absolutely central. If the individual does not want to participate, the entire disease detection work falls. There is no other person who can know who you have met and who you should inform. I cannot help but take on board the picture I get from regions and the Public Health Agency that in all regions they work very effectively. You think you have models. There is also a way of working with infectious detection that we will benefit from in the future as well. Covid ‐ 19 is what we are talking about here and now. But of course it is also important in other contexts. In conclusion: The Swedish Public Health Agency was tasked with making a proper analysis of how it looks international and how it looks national. It came back to the government with the basis on which I feel we need to rest. There is not a model in any country where you feel that it is the solution. Other digital functions are chosen to support the detection of infectious diseases in our regions.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-530	Mr President, I would like to The Minister is quite right, of course, that a digital infection detection app is not the solution to infection detection. It's a tool. It is one of many tools that I think should be used. Basically, the work of detection is of course about individuals who are infected quickly testing themselves and that you are then open and transparent about who you have met and when you have done so. It is important to be quick-footed as an individual in taking responsibility and to quickly inform those who may have been infected. It is important to get help and support in this work from the health care system. Mr President, I would like to That is where I have been concerned that this work may not have worked fully in Sweden. There have been repeated reports from the regions that the disease prevention work has not worked well enough. Sweden, compared with many other countries, has placed a huge responsibility on the individual. The Minister is quite right, as I said, that if the individual is not involved, it does not matter what technical means you have or how hard health care works. However, many testify that it has been a great responsibility for the individual to contact those who may have been met. It would have been good if health care had received greater support and support in this. That is also why I am calling for evaluation in my interpellation. Now we've been living with this pandemic for over a year. We should look at whether the ways in which we have chosen in Sweden to for example trace infections have been good, if they have worked as we want or if there is a possibility for development and improvement. The European Disease Control Agency points out that contact by telephone from healthcare should be the basis of the disease detection work. In Sweden this has not been the basis, but it has often been about that you, digitally or in other ways, should do the pathology. As far as the app is concerned, I do not think that one should exaggerate the role that such an app can play. But I think that an app is an important opportunity to complement the disease protection work carried out by Sweden and other countries. The potential of this tool should also become greater and more important now that travel within, and beyond, the Union is increasing. Then I think it's good if more countries have the digital tools in place and also use the function that the European Commission has developed to make the different national apps work together. It is only then that they become really effective – when Sweden introduces an app and sees to it also works in the EU common system. That is what I hope Sweden will do, although it seems that the government has unfortunately closed this door, which I find unfortunate. When it comes to infectious diseases doctors, it has come to the conclusion that Sweden may not have more than 60 infectious diseases doctors, which is a small number. If we compare ourselves to Norway, we can see that there are about 350 infectious diseases doctors there. If Sweden had had as many as Norway in relation to our population, we would have had 700 infectious diseases doctors rather than 60. I and the Moderates, and now indeed a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs, believe that this is something we need to look at. In the next week, the Riksdag will therefore take a decision on an announcement to the Government to review the organisation of infectious pathogens and look at how to strengthen the presence of infectious pathogens locally and strengthen regional disease control work. I think this is an important lesson from this pandemic.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-541	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should underestimate what it takes to develop an app when it comes to privacy and central data storage. It was something that Germany experienced when part of the work was done because there was a scepticism at the root of data storage, monitoring and so on. It is possible that this scepticism is even greater in Germany, but at least this is an example. I would like to say to everyone who is possibly listening that there is no EU app that everyone is now going to use when you start moving freely and to whom Sweden does not want to join, but different countries are looking at this and working a little differently. No country has come to the conclusion that it has the optimal app, which is both downloaded and very well used and which is what one has been able to point to this far as the most successful in the disease protection work. This is a global pandemic, but it is incredibly important that we still have a national perspective and that there is equivalence across the country. But we do not get away from the fact that it is regional disease protection that is working and that is doing an enormous amount of hard work, many times with support, help and management by the Public Health Agency. It should be borne in mind that it is not only the pathologist but also the treating doctor and many other parts of the healthcare system that are part of the disease control work, the detection of infection and so on. When looking at infectious diseases doctors you therefore need to look at the whole organisation, but there is no doubt that there has been a need to train more infectious diseases doctors during the crisis. I want to say that Swedish regions have not sent the signal through the Swedish Public Health Agency in the mission they received that they feel the need to have a specific app. On the other hand, human resources have undoubtedly been a bottleneck. Regardless of how one learns that one is positive, we need to ensure that we can help to trace the positive cases. Then there needs to be quantity of people who can do this, who are trained and who can be the active vectors. The regions have worked intensively to train new staff and put them to work, and that is what, I understand, has rather been a bottleneck and an aggravating circumstance so far. Then perhaps I do not think that we should draw all the conclusions here and now. On the one hand, we have a Corona Commission, and on the other hand, I believe that the tasks assigned to both the E-Health Agency and the Public Health Authority are the bases that the government needs to use rather than an opinion that it could be better. It is always a matter of using not only financial but also actual resources to develop different systems and to influence the organisation around the country. The announcement, of course, comes to my attention when it comes. But with all due respect – Sweden still has an organisation where the regions have the main responsibility for the health care organisation and how they build their disease protection organisation. We cannot redraw this map from the government's side. But it is clear that we have reason to look at how the disease control work is carried out in the country as a whole; I can already say that. The exact form in which we will have to return to. I would like to stress how important it is that the testing has a large capacity. You can also detect infection, but if you are not able to follow it up with testing, it is flawed. Although I have enormous respect for the fact that there may be benefits with apps too, I do not think we should enlarge the issue too much. The regions feel that they are working on, that they need digital support, that they are using other models that are more effective and that human resources have been bottlenecks and shortcomings in the system. I think that we need to work on this in different ways to ensure that, not least during the autumn, we are able to cope with possible outbreaks, clusters and so on. We must be able to stop any possible new spread of infection quickly, whether it is local or regional.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-552	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that the regions have not highlighted the need for a disease control phase and felt that it is first and foremost an app they have lacked in the work during the pandemic. As I said, the app is becoming more important now, ahead, as cross-border travel increases. Then I think that the model we have in Sweden needs to be supplemented and that digital tools – which may have registered where I have been on my holiday, which stores or other things I have found myself in and which I may have met – could be a support. It is, Mr President, a little bit of this that I have criticised the government for during the pandemic: there is so much here and now and it is not really able to look forward and have a preparation for what is to come. We have seen this under the previous waves that have come during the pandemic. The government was not prepared for a second wave and not for a third wave, and it has had consequences. Now I think it is important to consider how to create the conditions for a good and effective disease protection work forward, when mobility increases. Then I and my party think that an app could have been a complement. But as I said, you shouldn't exaggerate the meaning of an app. I also see the problems that the Minister raises in his posts linked to privacy and that the app itself does not solve anything if it does not get a big use. That is, of course, the case, and it is important to have said it. When it comes to infectious disease doctors and the announcement that the Riksdag is likely to make next week, it is about reviewing the organisation and looking at how the disease control work can be strengthened and organisations developed. We think it would have been interesting to look at, for example, the Norwegian model, where you have infectious diseases doctors not only in the regions but in each municipality. So you can work more locally to prevent and stop the spread of infection in a pandemic like the one we are now in.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-558	Mr President, I would like to It does sound like we are right to agree that a disease detection phase does not solve the problem. If the state, the authorities and the government go in and say that now, all regions should do this, we can also do it for the regions, not least in a situation where they are operating in an ongoing crisis. It is of course always Johan Hultberg's role as opposition representative to say that the government has been late all the time and has not kept track of the situation. But I do not share that picture, nor have I taken note of all the proposals of the Moderates who would apparently have been able to solve many of the challenges – if you had just expressed them a little louder. It is a fact that the health organisation is nevertheless a regional matter. We will give every possible support to do the whole thing equally across the country and to have the right conditions for their work – if we are talking about testing and detection. But it is important for the regions to see that this fits in with their structure. At a time when the crisis is over, it may be possible to relate to this in a different way. But it is different if you come in the middle of a crisis and from the government through the Public Health Authority to hear how the regions view this and ask: Is there a need? If the answer is no, then I think we have a responsibility to listen to it too. But it is also about ensuring that we meet the regions on the basis of outbreak teams, which we have talked about before, where the Public Health Authority will support, guide and train to avoid the bottlenecks that have existed because there have been too few people who can help to track infection. Then it becomes much more important to work with it than to spend time and effort on other things. I would like to conclude by saying that, with regard to the protection of infection, which is regional, the regions of course also have a responsibility for the municipalities, and I would like to emphasise that very much. It is not, of course, a doctor who is regional today who can say that the municipalities can solve this themselves. After all, health care has a responsibility for regions and for the municipalities included in it. If they then need to be strengthened, it is another matter, but one cannot give up responsibility and say that one only cares about what is the regional structure.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-565	Mr President, I would like to Linda Lindberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that a child living in sheltered housing with a guardian is entitled to schooling, care and follow-up, but also that documentation is made and if I intend to return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals that also children accompanying sheltered residents will have their own decision and therefore follow-up. The Government has commissioned IVO, the Inspectorate for Health and Care, to strengthen supervision of social services' handling of matters relating to support and protection for children and young people. The assignment includes reviewing how the Social Welfare Board handles ex-ante assessments and protection assessments, for example for children who accompany their mother to a sheltered home. Linda Lindberg's questions seem to be referring to proposals that have been made by U in Sweden regarding a strengthened children's rights perspective for children in sheltered housing (SOU 2017:112). In a 2020 departmental spromemoria (Ds 2020:16), these proposals are also complemented by proposals on, among other things, the conditions for deciding on the edivisible placement of children in sheltered housing. The overall proposals are prepared within the Government Office. At present, it is not possible for me to say anything about legislative proposals in this area.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-568	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Social Affairs Hallengren. I will begin by focusing on the debate on violence in close relations, which has recently been very intense. It is, on the one hand, extremely good, because it allows us to highlight the problem of this. On the other hand, however, it is also a sign that politics and society have actually failed badly in this area. Furthermore, when five women die in the space of a month because of violence from a partner or a former woman, we really do have a great job to do – not to mention all the women and children who are being subjected to psychological or physical violence here and now. Violence in close relationships is, in my view, a major social problem, a public health problem and a violation of human rights. We Swedish democrats haven't had the privilege of ruling Sweden yet, but I can't imagine that the Social Democrats in any way might think that they've done a really good job in the last eight years on this issue – either – although I know that the government has done a lot. Many women also bear witness to shortcomings in the process of finally gathering the strength and courage to emerge from a destructive relationship. The lack of knowledge in both police, social services and the judiciary is evident. Efforts and laws must in some sense be synchronised, and a holistic approach must be taken to these issues. Here we want to see a national competence centre that holds together the chain of efforts and support so that women and children, but also men, get the help and support that can be expected. Today, as I said, we have a number of authorities, organisations and activities that step forward and make fantastic contributions, but we have no collective governance. That is something we would like to see. I think it is a shortcoming in this work, in such an equal and good country as Sweden. We need coordination here. We need research. We need guidelines and support. We need a national strategy for improving skills at all levels and at all levels in this area. It's not good enough to sip. I hope that we will not have this debate again in ten years' time and that nothing has changed. As long as politics cannot change, violence will continue. I am prepared for a great deal, Mr President, to achieve the goal of a zero vision here. In the midst of this existence are many children, Mr President. The safety and safety of children is something we should strive for and guarantee. We are already pursuing the issue of a childhood guarantee, which my colleague raised earlier today with the Minister, which briefly highlights the importance of putting the best interests of children into focus in all contexts. About 6,200 children in Sweden lived in sheltered housing between 31 July 2018 and 1 August 2019. One study shows that 50 percent of pre-school children living in sheltered housing suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome. There is also a warning that schooling, care and follow-up deficiencies. The number of children living in sheltered housing has also increased markedly. My question to the Minister relates precisely to the situation of children placed in shelter because of domestic violence. These children are so - called accompanying parents. At present, this means that they do not receive their own contribution. We then have 6 000 children flying under the radar in this context in some sense. You simply do not get your legal rights satisfied today. I understood in the Minister's reply that the proposals made by the Investigation for a strengthened perspective on children's rights in sheltered housing in 2017 are still being looked at. We are now in 2021, and the government is still watching. Does the government intend to do something about the situation of children living in sheltered housing so that we can ensure that they receive the care, schooling and support that can be expected from society, or what is the government willing to do? If so, when can we see such a proposal on Parliament's table?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-578	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Linda Lindberg! Thank you, too, for starting from a much broader perspective, which I am quite sure my colleague, Märta Stenevi, would have liked to have discussed. There is a very broad and coherent work – it certainly has not been missed by Linda Lindberg – which is about men's violence against women. A strategy was developed by my predecessor a number of years ago, and it was also one of the first things that the Socialist and environmental party government put up as really important issues. This suggests that we have a concerted approach and work in a great many areas, but that work is now being held together by my colleague, Märta Stenevi. It's possible to describe what's happening. I would say that a great many things have happened. The positions have been moved forward. As late as this week, the Riksdag decided on child peace crimes – if children witness the crime, the punishment is tightened up, simply. It is also about honour-related violence and children who are subjected to genital mutilation, child marriage and so on. There are many areas of criminal law. There is also a great deal in welfare policy that is about actually putting children first. Not least in the pandemic, it has been about ensuring that children and young people get the best possible conditions. If others have had to limit their lives, we have really tried to put the children's perspective much further ahead – the possibility of leisure activities, to go to school, support for different types of NGOs, hotlines and telephones to be able to call and communicate when life simply feels tough in different ways. Nevertheless, I would say that a lot is about that. This also applies to welfare policy in the broad sense, which is about developing pre-schools and schools, and also to women's rights in the broad sense. Women's right to self-support and women's right to feel safe are of course very important. This is about support for women's shelter organisations. Although, as I said, I do not have the overall responsibility, the emergency services and sheltered residents, to which we shall return, are under my responsibility. In meetings with vulnerable women, women's organisations and women's shelters, I also hear much of what Linda Lindberg and many others describe. However, I do not share the image that is perhaps a little too often given that everything has failed miserably. A society is rarely completed. Even if you have four or more terms of office, you must always take steps. You can't live in the belief that at some point we're kind of done. After all, society is constantly facing new trials. The pandemic is just one example of that. That's the way it is all the time. That work continues. I do not think that we will say in this election campaign either: now we are satisfied, now we are handing over to someone else. Of course there's more to be done all the time. Since Linda Lindberg herself mentioned this with a childhood guarantee, I would just like to say that this interpellation was quite remarkable. When it comes to children's rights, we cannot help but mention that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now Swedish law. The Swedish democrats did not think it should be. Then I think you should be a little careful when you talk about this government having failed miserably but that we need to have a child perspective on everything. That is precisely what the Convention on the Rights of the Child aims at. Since we ratified it, we have gradually adapted Swedish legislation to it. But it is also another matter to make it law, where it is actually being severely tested against other legislation. I would argue that it has moved forward positions and will continue to push forward children's rights. This means that the perspective is put into all contexts and that there is a requirement that the knowledge is sufficient and that it can be built on and is always seen as a fresh product for everyone who works towards children. The investigation in question was submitted in 2018, but there was a need to complement it. That is why a departmental spromemoria came back in 2020, and that is what we are preparing. I would like to emphasise that this is not about as many years as you might think. This is rather complicated legislation, and we are working on it right now.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-588	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of Social Affairs. I do not intend to dwell very much on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but since it is now a law, demands are made on municipalities and regions, and also on the government, that it is actually implemented so that it does not clash with our own laws. Some studies have shown that municipalities find it very difficult to work with this, because they don't really know what to do. But that's another thing. Like the government, we believe, and I, that it is extremely important that we work to ensure the safety of children. As Mr Hallengren mentioned, the amendment of the law which comes into force on 1 July and which makes it punishable to allow children to witness crimes is extremely good and a step in the right direction. But when it comes to seeing children, we need to bring about even more changes in the work of social services with children who are in violent environments. We have worked actively on social services issues, in particular those relating to children, and I say that we are dealing with them very actively within the Social Affairs Committee. For me, these issues are a top priority. We are building society through children, Mr President, and we cannot afford to fall any further. All spring has been paved with misdemeanors. We can't have children who get hurt in the arms of the state and the municipalities. These have been family home placements and HVB placements. We have been reached by reports of maladministration in connection with various Sis placements. It is also about children who witness violence or who get caught because society has somewhere failed to put an end to the violence. According to Brå's statistics, 23 200 cases of assault on women aged 18 and over were reported to the police in 2020. In 80 percent of these cases, the woman was familiar with her perpetrator. In addition, 1 530 cases of severe female poverty were reported. One estimate is that only about a quarter of the violence in close relationships is reported to the police. Again: In the midst of this chaos there are usually children. I can understand that it is difficult to report – it is not easy to report the person you live with and have children with and that you have built up your life around. Many women, and also organisations, strengthen the image that the process of reaching goals is very tough. Authorities simply don't speak the same language. I have received several stories from women who testify to ignorance and incomprehension. For example, if a woman seeks out social services because of domestic violence, she and the child are placed in sheltered housing. During the placement, the other guardian has the right to be associated with the child. I dare to say that it must be very confusing for the child, on the one hand, to live in shelter in order to avoid a situation of violence and, on the other hand, to associate with the other guardian because the authority says so, without the child itself actually wanting it. We need to get an investigation into the rights of access to children in sheltered housing. In addition, the woman may be liable for the aggravation of association, or association sabotage, even though she is in the care of social services. We need to look at that too. The situation of violence in close relationships is not quite simple. We need to do a lot of things in many places. It can also be said that, as the law stands today, children simply do not have their own decision when they are placed, i.e. no effort. They are only accompanying – usually – the mother. Absence of decisions actually means that there is no plan, documentation, statistics or follow-up and that there are no calls addressed to the child. I believe that a decision should be taken in cases where children are accompanied, and I am pleased that the government continues to look at this. I can see that somewhere there is a small legal uncertainty about this handling. We usually buy up external places on women's shelters that are not licensed and where the quality can vary some, although I know that many are doing their absolute best to conduct a good business.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-599	Madam President, I would like Speaking of this with the lack of a licence, I would like to say that we have a challenge here in itself. Having non-profit women's shelters that also run shelters I think is incredibly positive. To not dare to report and not take the step I can't even imagine – if you haven't been in that situation, you probably can't understand what it actually means and how difficult that step is. To feel that you do not always turn to an authority but to a women's shelter has its own value. You really need to think about what non-profit forces mean when you're going to make agreements and it's for profit. I really want to submit that question, not least to Linda Lindberg, to think about. I think it plays a very important role in security and how people experience the situation. I would also like to say that it is a very good thing that we do not talk about violence in close relationships. I think we should talk about men's violence against women. It was a very conscious decision from this government to say that the strategy is about men's violence against women and not to make it sound like something that happens inside the four walls of the home and that would therefore be less serious. I would urge you to do that. It is, of course, terrible when the number of cases increases. However, this can make visible the crime that it entails and make it visible that women dare to take the step – that there are things that make you take the step of making the report and actually asking for the help that you should have all the right to. We could have a long discussion, but I am quite sure that we are on the same side in this case. It should not be the women who should hide, need to seek shelter, need to take this difficult step and perhaps live with protected identity for the foreseeable part of life. The same applies not least to children who are to grow up under the same unreasonable conditions. It is clear that this is about the perpetrator – we have to make sure in different ways that it does not happen and that it does not happen again. I will leave this discussion, but I wanted to get this included. I would like to emphasise that the investigation we are talking about has been set up by the government because we think it is very urgent to see children as the subjects they are and as individuals of their own who may need protection. Basically, this is a good investigation that we have been able to carry out several parts of. However, there have been some difficulties with which further work has been needed. I hope that when we prepare this further, we will be able to make proposals. However, I cannot describe when and how because I do not know this yet. How to work with the school and the right to be received is an issue that I imagine the Ministry of Education is also working on. It matters, of course. It can be difficult for a municipality to very temporarily, very quickly and without knowing how long it takes to receive a child, but it is very important to make sure that it is possible. I would like to conclude by saying that we are building society for the children and that we are building it with the children. Ensuring that all children have the opportunity to grow up in security is something that must guide us in the work. Clearly, not all children have the same conditions. That is why we need a welfare society and a safety and security net that allows society to catch up with children when they end up in situations where they are at risk of falling through. Of course, sheltered accommodation is a part of the children who are the toughest. Different forms of placements we also need to work with. It should be the best possible quality in this given that there are very difficult challenges for the staff and for the profession that does their best to meet them. Of course, this is always a difficult situation, but this is perhaps the most important work that can be done in our country.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-609	Madam President, I would like As the Minister mentioned, both the Minister and I can see the problem and share this view. I can see that we still have a lot to do, even though a great deal has been done. The whole situation of the children is very problematic to me, Madam President, not least from the perspective of children's rights. Whether you call it violence in close relationships or men's violence against women and children, it must be attacked from several quarters. The efforts you have made are great, and it is great that you have tightened the penalties. However, we also need to work with the proactive, and we need to ensure that those who need help and who seek the efforts of the social services receive this help adequately. Social services work in these cases is carried out in many ways by non-profit activities, where feedback and follow-up on children is not available because a decision has not been made. The activities are not licensed and there are no safety quality requirements. Manning can vary greatly with variation across the country. As there are no decisions on interventions for each child, there is also no documentation requirement, which means that neither the home nor the social services can follow up the children's placement. There is also no connection with whether you have received training measures or if you have received the care and support available. As I have mentioned before, I know that many activities make excellent efforts. So I do not want to criticise anyone. But the fact remains; time is ticking, and children are currently being placed in sheltered housing. I would urge the Government to work urgently on a proposal on this issue. I really want to see that. A final, quick question to the Minister for Social Affairs concerns precisely the Convention on the Rights of the Child, its intentions and the government's own eighth long-term objective area of protection, support and treatment for children exposed to men's violence against women and honour-related violence against women, and that society's efforts for girls and boys should be equal and of good quality. Are we fulfilling this as the system stands today?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-615	Madam President, I would like There's still a lot to do. It was perhaps also a bit where we started the interpellation debate, the dialogue or the discussion. Society is certainly not being completed. I would like to emphasise that it is, of course, a question of legislation. But I am pleased that Linda Lindberg does not have as her main focus that we will find new penalties and penalties. This is about how parents are to be safe in parenting. How should we support parents who find it difficult to limit or who need help and support? How are we supposed to get in early? It's a matter of coercion, a restraining order, and so on. You should not have to feel that you are acting in a situation where it is either consent or forced action that applies. We also learned that it is a brutal procedure in a young person's life. The ambition is, of course, to make families work. How do we support parenthood? How do we prevent this? I forgot to tell you earlier, but I would like to remind you that we have carried out a review of the entire Social Services Act. It is an extensive piece of work that has been done for three and a half years. We are now working on how to take it further. But a starting point is that children's and young people's perspectives should permeate it. It is also about how to get in earlier and how to lower thresholds. How should we ensure that in a simple way – it is a bit on the authority track – you dare to make contact without having to turn yourself in and out? Maybe there shouldn't be a lot of notes. How can you quickly and easily feel that someone is listening? How can we make cooperation easier? For example, we have made suggestions to allow the Social Welfare Board to collect confidential information from another social welfare board. How will police and social services cooperate and cooperate and so on? There's a lot to do. But I would like to emphasise that it is, of course, about those who work in sheltered housing, in family homes and so on. But we also need to focus on how we create a society that provides security and that allows parents to be good role models for their children, so that children are given the best possible conditions for growing up.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-620	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me if, given the fact that the frozen nation in the world of sports is growing increasingly strongly, I understand that current restrictions are illogical. Angelika Bengtsson has also asked me why the government does not open up a percentage of audiences to arenas instead of a fixed number regardless of the size of the arena. Significant for public gatherings and public events, such as sports matches, is often that people should come together, do or experience something together. It often happens in a certain place at a certain time. It can attract people who do not normally meet and who sometimes come from different countries. This makes it necessary to regulate such activities in a different way from, for example, a store. It is not the purpose to gather, but visitors can come and go during the store's entire opening hours. Shops, gyms, cafés and a number of other activities also have specific restrictions on the number of people who are allowed to stay in the premises at the same time. This is important in order to reduce the risk of transmission. I understand that there is frustration as many businesses consider themselves to have premises where more than eight people can be admitted in a safe way. When the Act( 2021:4) on special restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19, the so-called covid-19 law, was introduced, the government was clear that it would allow for disease protection measures that are adapted to the different conditions of the operations to be carried out in a safe manner. Since the law was introduced, the spread of infection has been at a very high level, and for a long time it has increased. In addition, care has been under great strain. This has not been the time to change the restrictions. The Government has decided on 12 May 2021 on new participation ceilings that take into account the different conditions of the operations and that the risk of infection is different depending on whether the arrangement takes place indoors or outdoors, for example, and whether the participants are assigned seats or not. As a general rule, for indoor arrangements, the participation ceiling shall continue to be 8 participants. However, if the participants are assigned a seat indoors, up to 50 participants may be allowed. In outdoor arrangements, a maximum of 100 persons may attend unless they are assigned a seat. For outdoor arrangements with designated seating areas, such as large outdoor arenas, up to 500 persons may be allowed. A specific restriction is introduced for sports races and similar sports competitions, where a maximum of 150 athletes are allowed to participate. These participation ceilings enter into force on 1 June 2021. The regulatory framework thus takes better account of the risks associated with the conditions of the arrangement. For standing audiences at an indoor concert, it is justified to have a participation limit that goes further than an event or assembly where the participants are assigned assigned seats. Then there is a better opportunity to keep your distance during the whole time the convention or event is going on. Furthermore, consideration needs to be given to the arrangements that are not subject to participation restrictions, such as local public transport, where congestion and the risk of transmission of infection may occur if many people are going to and from the same place at the same time. The government has therefore assessed that fixed participation ceilings are needed for another time. The Swedish Public Health Agency has also issued detailed rules on the requirements for disease control measures. In this way, organisers of events can take more adapted disease protection measures according to the conditions of the activities. Yesterday, 27 May, the government presented a plan for the abolition of restrictions. Easiness is planned based on the expected spread of infection, the burden on health care and the degree of vaccination. The Government has assessed that the next increase in the participation ceilings is expected to take place around 1 July 2021 in order to be completely removed at some point in September.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-626	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Hallengren, for the answer to the interpellation! Since I submitted it, a great deal of relief has been given to the restrictions. Not least, the distinction between indoor and outdoor sports is now made. That's good. Yesterday, as I said, the five steps for the re-opening of society, which I believe many of us have been looking forward to, were also presented. The Pandemin has thrown down all our routines and what we call our everyday lives. We've all had to change. Sport has been severely affected by the restrictions that we are to follow. I don't think anyone's questioning the need for restrictions during a pandemic. But when they fail as they do today, I fully understand the voices that question the intentions of the government. For example, we can stand in the queue of a café, shop or shopping centre, but sport has been restricted to a maximum of eight people, even though sports associations are experienced organizers of safe events. At the same time, several hundred people can be squeezed into subways and on buses on their way to work on an ordinary everyday life. It is illogical restrictions that hit sport the hardest, and it creates enormous frustration. Madam President, I would like As I said yesterday, the government was talking about the relieved restrictions. That is good news. But it is still a clear example of the government's dysfunctional and irrational policy regarding restrictions. You continue to stare blind at the maximum number, regardless of the size of the arena. At the same time, several European countries use percentages in terms of audience intake. Why should there be more people inside the Mall of Scandinavia than there may be at Friends Arena, which is next to each other, on the same street? Why can there be more people in a shop indoors than there can be in the audience in an arena where the roof is open? At Friends Arena, 480 people represent less than 1 per cent of the total capacity. It is clear that the big public sports are still living with a basically actual restraining order. Another remarkable example of the restrictions is that a restaurant can seat 150 people, but a few meters away there are 8 people in the audience. The restaurant is located in the arena where the football game is played. The difference is that the audience does not get food served at their table. No matter how you get to the arena, it is obvious that 158 people have made it to the arena to watch the same game. When the government's handling of the restrictions is not adapted to real conditions, it will not gain the confidence of the population. This has been demonstrated during the pandemic and is reinforced by the government's non-functioning policy as a whole. It is clear that the government has had a big city focus when it worked out the restrictions. Many of our arenas outside our big cities are located in places where you can get by car because there is no metro or bus. Why does the government not open up a percentage of audience to arenas instead of staring blindly at a maximum number regardless of the size of the arena?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-634	Madam President, I would like Although interpellant Angelika Bengtsson wants to say that sport has been particularly affected, I cannot help but try to broaden the discussion somewhat. I think that culture, churches, peoples' movements, demonstrations, fairs and restaurants would disagree that sport has been hit harder than everyone else. Everyone's been hit very hard. I would also like to say that it is possible that Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats, if they had been in a decisive position, would have assessed and found specific and well-targeted restrictions on each individual activity. I just want to say that I think it would have been completely impossible to make an assessment of each individual, specific arena and activity and whether it is in a big city or outside. We have the rules we have. At first we had the law of order; now we have more accurate legislation. Nevertheless, I tried to describe in my interpellation response that there is a huge difference in coming to the same place at the same time, meeting people that you normally do not meet and dealing with this in a way that does not contribute to congestion. At the same time, we have a recommendation that is about socializing mainly with one's own associations and trying to have as small a social circle as possible. This is why restaurants may sit at most four at each table, which is perceived as a very large restriction. Then, of course, there are opportunities for those who want to find ways to put these limitations or laws together. It wasn't that we originally thought, "Please have a restaurant in the arena!" But now they do, and then we have special legislation for restaurants. I have no other answer to that. Let me also say that many European countries have been very closed. I understand that the Swedish Democrats almost wanted a little more of the lockdown and closed. But you can't have both closed and open at the same time, you have to choose. Then we have chosen to have a system where people do not meet and crowding does not occur, where we use all sorts of legislation to avoid this and to guide people who need to get to work. That is my answer on public transport. You have to get to your work, to your school or to a grocery store, and then you have to deal with that situation in the very best way. When we talk about countries in Europe now, it is not that they have a lot of big events. However, just as we in Sweden do now when we present our five steps, they are beginning to look at how they will enable major events and what the conditions should be for it. This is tested in different ways in different countries, and of course we follow each other closely and look at what we can learn from it and what the conditions look like. This does not mean that we in Sweden should not have major events in the future. We shall have it, but we shall ensure that we have it in a way that does not jeopardise the positive development we are now seeing with decreasing spread of infection and reduced inflow into healthcare. This at the same time as we look at other countries. I believe that together in Europe we are very interested in doing this in a way that does not jeopardise development.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-645	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you for your answer, Minister. The difference between Sweden's strategy and the rest of Europe's current audience is that in Sweden the government has run the same line throughout the pandemic and stared blindly at a maximum number while Europe has tried to think wider and see how to arrange infection-proof events with audiences of more than eight people. The percentage of audience intake has been used, as I mentioned in my previous speech. Different sections have been used. You open up more or less sections depending on the surface, and each section has a certain number of people. Madam President, I would like This weekend we could see thousands in the audience in the indoor arena in Rotterdam where Eurovision Song Contest was arranged. This was a step in a research project, and we have seen similar research projects in Europe in the past. Although a singing competition is not by definition sport, it is a big event that reminds us of what it is like to arrange a sports match. I am well aware that culture, civil society and our churches have suffered as much as sport, but I have chosen to focus on sport in this interpellation debate. Because sport has taken the hard hit throughout the pandemic, it would be nice for the government to give it a little plaster on the wounds. Instead, it feels like the government continues to ignore the wishes of sport and produced documents on organising infectious events. Apparently, freedom under responsibility is one of the tenets that half society has to live by, and sport is not included there. It is time to let sports show that you can arrange infectious events like all shops do daily, all bus companies do daily and all restaurants do daily. Now that we are opening up and again leaving sport behind, it risks creating more frustration than it already exists. It is extremely important that the return to normal is handled properly and above all fairly. Unfortunately, in the planned restart, this is not done for this industry, and that is regrettable. Does the Government see any risks in omitting sport and not allowing it to open up its own premises? They are designed by sport itself during this year and ensure infectious arrangements.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-655	Madam President, I would like Now Angelika Bengtsson himself mentioned that there are research projects in the countries where you have major events. That's something else. I would also like to say that this is not about the whole pandemic. We are now in a situation where countries open up in different ways depending on the starting point. If you have been completely closed you should open up at all. If you've been a little open, you should open more. I think I said it, otherwise I'll say it again: we're going to have big events in Sweden too, but in a way that doesn't compromise the decreasing spread of infection. If Angelika Bengtsson wants to discuss the conditions for sport and how much support it has received, I am sure the Minister for Sport will be happy to respond to that. I don't know the exact amount. However, sport has in no way been overlooked. The support given has been allocated to the business community, to people who have risked losing their jobs and to short-term support that has prevented them from losing their jobs. But it has also been about support – by historical standards, in fact – for both sport and culture as well as for care and care, so support has been given. Then it is clear that anyone affected, regardless of where you are in the social structure, can have views on it. But I think it is unfair to give the impression that sport should not have received any support. It would also be unreasonable to break out major sporting events specifically. I think we should take the big events at all. At the press conference yesterday, I and the government were clear that in mid-June we will come back and give a picture of how we view the possibility of having major events that would not be possible otherwise, in this epidemiological situation, if we can find forms for it. I think that is quite a clear message. I can also say that there is a difference between shops and major events. I hope it is clear that there is a difference between going into a store and keeping a distance, doing what you should and going home and saying: These two hours, we're having a big event. We have not seen it as possible, and we have seen it as a great risk. We have shared that with all the other countries, I would say. That is why sport has not only had a challenge in Sweden. This is something that has been experienced in both a European and a global perspective. I think it is important to have a little look at those issues and not just look at what countries are doing right now. We follow each other closely and see what is possible to do. The government intends to come back to the major events in mid-June. But I would like to emphasise that the pandemic is in no way over. On the other hand, I think that the information given by the government yesterday clearly states that we will start by introducing participation ceilings from 1 July. Up to 3,000 outdoor sittings are quite large events. We are saying this because we believe that developments will last. Everything speaks for it. But we are not going to do anything at this point that jeopardises the positive development we have. We are not prepared to give sport priority over culture or other parts, but I would like to make it clear that we are looking at major events. We'll get back to you in the middle of June.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-667	Madam President, I would like For me, it has been quite clear that the government did not want to give sport a chance to actually organise infection-proof events, which are said to be able to do and have worked with for a whole year, when from one day to another you could not receive audiences and have the big events. The whole cultural sector has been affected in the same way due to the pandemic. We see that vaccination runs well in society – that's good. The more people vaccinate themselves and the faster it goes, the faster we can restart sport, not least, as my interpellation is about. But again – I think the government has had a boring view of the whole sports industry. They have really worked hard to get a chance to organize big events. If there is anything they can do well, it is precisely to hold infection-proof events. There are several examples of how to avoid getting a crowd. There may be different castle times at entrances, that some sections are blocked and that the person buying a ticket can be traced afterwards if the person is infected. They have therefore worked very carefully to be able to open up and arrange major events in a safe manner; they have really been concerned about that. Let's hope that we can get back to normal as soon as possible – I'm really looking forward to that. But I had hoped that the government had done more for sport.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-672	Madam President, I would like I note that Angelika Bengtsson, the Swedish Democrats, during the pandemic apparently wanted to have very large events and is not as concerned as I am about the congestion that could have occurred. I've met many different actors – it's far from just sport – each one of them thinks they have a very good model. But with the situation that we have had, not only in Sweden but globally, with the pandemic we have not been able to risk this and say that precisely you seem to have a great idea and model. I do not doubt the people I have met or entire sectors, but we have had a situation that I think we are perhaps a little too quick to put behind us, with a high spread of infection. With this virus, it is enough for us to start new transmission chains to increase the pressure on care in a region by perhaps 15, 20 or 30 intensive care patients. This could cause health care to fail to save the lives that could otherwise be saved. I therefore think it is a genuinely unfair image that Angelika Bengtsson expresses – that the government would not care about or see sport. We definitely have. This is also why Minister of Sport Amanda Lind has had very many and close dialogues with both audience councils and other sports actors. I would also like to say that I find it unfair to break sport out of culture, civil society and the churches, which are also in need of their activities. Treating large events together and providing them with a level playing field is also a way to be accurate and feel as logical as possible. In mid-June, the government will come back with our view on how we could deal with these major events, which, for epidemiological reasons, might otherwise not be possible. Could it be possible, and if so, when?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-678	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me whether I intend to work towards implementing any of the concrete measures requested by the industry to limit trade in stolen scrap metal and, if so, what and how the government views the negative societal effects caused by metal thefts and whether the government intends to present proposals on how both metal theft and their harmful effects can be minimised. I would first like to say that I share the view that theft of copper and other valuable metals is a problem that affects society in several ways and can entail great social costs. The government has made it clear that this must be vigorously combated and countered. In my previous reply to Eric Palmqvist last December, I reported that the government is in favour of the voluntary measures implemented so far by the industry and the authorities, such as the ban on cash and the labelling of metals. However, as I also pointed out in my reply at that time, several different measures need to work together effectively to curb metal theft and trade in stolen scrap metal. The Government has therefore decided on a special mission to strengthen the fight against crime in the area of waste. In February this year, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and a number of county administrative boards were tasked with presenting a situational picture of illegal waste management and its scope and presenting proposals for measures to further prevent and prevent crime in the waste area. Particular attention shall be paid to the link to organised crime. The overall analysis and proposals of the authorities, to be submitted to the Government by 15 March 2022, will provide an important basis for determining the coordinated measures needed to effectively curb crime in the area of waste, including metal theft and trade in stolen scrap metal.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-683	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise for his answer. The massive theft of copper in particular is a major socio-economic problem. Thefts affect everything from small businesses to Sweden's churches, railways and power supply and destroy infrastructure, cultural heritage and people's and companies' property. The Finnish Transport Agency has spent a lot of work and money on prevention along the country's railways, and thefts have decreased slightly there. Unfortunately, however, burglary and theft continue unabated in, for example, the country's churches and small businesses. Even metal recycling companies that collect and store these metals are now more exposed to burglary than in the past. To this will be added the rather new phenomenon of catalyst and particle filter theft. These components contain coveted and precious metals such as palladium, platinum and rhodium. According to Larmjänst's 2020 statistics, thefts have increased rapidly. In fact, the increase is over 4,000 per cent compared with the previous year. I believe that this is a consequence of the government's failure to address the problem seriously. Madam President, I would like As a matter of fact, I do not think that I and the Minister for Economic Affairs are of a very different opinion on this issue. For example, in his reply to me, the Minister for Economic Affairs is clear that the government shares the view of the Swedish Democrats that the theft of copper and other valuable metals constitutes a serious problem. That is good because it means that in this debate I do not need to devote my energy to convincing the Minister for Economic Affairs that metal theft and trafficking in stolen scrap metal is a bad thing. Instead, I can devote it to making the Government realise that without concrete measures, the trade in stolen scrap metal will not be made more difficult, and therefore the theft of copper and other valuable metals will not be reduced. As the government has done so far, it is not possible to rely on voluntary agreements in the industry. Such voluntary agreements are, of course, only taken into account by the serious operators, to whom criminal groupings who wish to dispose of stolen goods hardly turn, whereas the shady operators who trade in scrap metal of dubious origin hardly feel tied to such voluntary rules. Madam President, I would like I believe that what is needed are concrete measures. Why not start by introducing things that should be easy to implement and that have been requested by the industry association Recycling industries for years because it is believed that it would seriously make it more difficult for criminals? My question to Minister Baylan is therefore: why are you opposed to the introduction of permit requirements and a ban on cash when trading in scrap metal? Do you not share the view that these are measures that would make it more difficult for criminals?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-691	Madam President, I would like I think that Mr Palmqvist is absolutely right – we agree in principle. I myself have been here in Parliament in opposition for eight years and understand that it is Form 1A for the opposition to say that the government does not take matters seriously and do too little and too late. Even if the government actually does what it proposes, it is included in the concept, so to speak. However, I would like to assure both Mr Palmqvist and everyone listening to this debate that the simple measures that Mr Palmqvist is talking about are being taken regardless of which government it is about. No one wants any other development. There is a danger that this will increase in a situation with increased prices and thus increased demand for many metals, whether it is copper, iron ore or other. With increased world market prices and increased demand, the desire for theft also increases. A number of things have been done here. I outlined this during our last debate in December, and for time-winning I was not going to repeat what I said then. But since then, we have moved on with the mission I was talking about. The government continues to strengthen the Police Authority. We should not only highlight and tighten penalties, but also ensure that we have a police authority that has time to deal with both prevention and prosecution of possible crimes. But we must also ensure that other authorities help and support are provided, and it is against this background that we have now given this task to a number of authorities, as I explained in my reply. I look forward to them developing more measures. Madam President, I would like Then it is always a balancing act, not least for me as Minister for Enterprise, when it comes to legislation and additional regulations. Although Mr Palmqvist is asking for more rules, his colleague in the Committee on Economic Affairs usually stands in exactly the same place and accuses the government of making too many rules and asking for simplification and removal of rules instead. It's a matter of finding a balance. We shall take strong action against this type of crime and both prevent and prosecute crime, but we shall not do so in a way that creates unnecessary bureaucracy. That balancing act must, of course, be completed. What is being done for simplification reasons must not lead to the acceptance of crime. However, voluntary agreements within the industry can sometimes be quite effective. We know they usually are. However, as Mr Palmqvist says, there is a risk that only those who are already honest and honest will follow the agreements, and against that background, together with a large number of authorities, we must look at what the rules look like and also strengthen the Police Authority so that crimes can be prosecuted. Even if we do our utmost and if we were to implement everything that Eric Palmqvist calls simple things, it is unfortunately the case that crime rarely disappears altogether. Then we must also have a police authority that is strengthened. Then the reinforcement of another 10,000 police officers by 2024 becomes a key also in the matter of metal theft.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-699	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is absolutely right that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of regulatory simplification. Often, it is regulatory simplifications that are demanded by the business community. In this case, the rules are being tightened up by the trade organisation, which is why we are of course in favour of this. Now we've made it clear. I thought I'd dwell a little on the Enterprise Minister's interpellation response. He describes how the government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and a number of county administrative boards to present a situational picture of illegal waste management and its scope. According to the interpellation response, this should be done with a view to proposing measures to further prevent and prevent crime in the area of waste. It says that special attention should be paid to the link with organised crime. The analysis shall be completed by March 15, 2022. Madam President, I would like I have no objection to giving these authorities such a task, but I cannot help wondering why this is happening only now. This is not a new question and not a new problem. The government should have been on this ball a long time ago, I think. Nor do I usually be late in pointing out political or ideological differences between the two government parties or their partners in cases where I suspect that is the root of nothing happening, but surely there should be no ideological lines of conflict between government parties on this issue? The Swedish democrats have been pointing out the problem for years. As I pointed out in my previous speech, I have put forward concrete proposals which are essentially requested by the serious players in the industry. I have mentioned permit requirements and cash bans in the trade in scrap metal. We have also proposed calls for greater traceability of both transactions and recycled scrap. We also have proposals for punitive measures which would increase the powers of law enforcement authorities in the event of suspicion of criminal activity. I cannot help but ask myself: Why has the government not acted on this issue? If you do not come up with the ideas yourself, you have even received the proposals directly from the recycling industry. Madam President, I would like I was going to quote a not quite unknown former party chairman of the party represented by the Minister for Economic Affairs, namely Olof Palme. You'll just have to put up with the fact that I'm doing it in my sounding Scanian:a lot of politics--comrades--that's wanting something. ..................................................... I'm brought up with the motto that if you want something, you do something. It may sound wonderfully simple, and I think that those of us who are in this political bubble know that it is not always that simple. But I'm sure you understand what I want to say. Since the problem of trafficking in stolen scrap metal is anything but new – and we know that too rough a regulatory framework only benefits criminal gangs and networks, domestic as well as foreign – I wonder why we have not seen strong proposals from the government to tackle the problem. Madam President, I would like Politics is therefore to want something, but it does not stop there, but we must act as well. I assume the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government wants something. Could the Minister of Economic Affairs present some concrete proposals as to how the government intends to act in the near future to put an end to metal theft and trade in stolen scrap metal?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-707	Madam President, I would like Although I appreciate that you, Eric Palmqvist, raise important issues, I smiled a little when you criticized the government for asking these authorities to analyse and present proposals to further strengthen the work, not least in relation to what is linked to organised crime. I don't know if you heard it yourself, but it was on the theme too little and too late. So perhaps it must be when in opposition to try to criticise the government. The truth is there's been a lot going on here, but more needs to be done. If one is to quote Olof Palme correctly, he said not only that politics is to want, but that a policy is to want the change. Here is an area that needs to be changed. I don't think you should make it as easy as Eric Palmqvist does and say that if you just impose a cash ban, it's all over the world. I think Eric Palmqvist himself knows that much of these thefts are driven by foreign leagues like the scrap metal from the country. That is why customs is part of the gang of authorities that have been given this task. If it is organized foreign leagues that carry the scrap out of the country solves a cash ban no problem. Madam President, I would like I think we agree that this is a problem and that we need to solve it. There are some solutions on the technical side. There are some solutions that are actually about the industry also talking together, and so there are some solutions that are about our authorities, not least the law enforcement authorities, working better together. It is about them getting a better picture and also making further proposals to ensure that we can reduce these thefts. Now we are in a situation where prices are high, and there is much to suggest that prices will remain high once the economy opens up after the pandemic.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-712	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. When I entered local politics at home in Gällivare, one of the things that struck me was how slowly the political mills usually grind. I think it's an aha experience that I share with many people who have engaged politically. At national level, we know that issues can be buried in investigations and almost disappear from the agenda, while other rules and legislation can actually be drummed through at a furious pace, at least if there is a broad political consensus that this is needed and if the political will exists. When I look at the website of the Riksdag, I note that the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly exercised the idea of introducing stricter regulation of trade in scrap metal ever since the Parliamentary Session 2011/ 12. Although the exercise from 2011/ 12 is rather thin in relation to the type of exercise in the field today, it shows that the problem of metal theft was already on the agenda at the time, ten years ago. In addition, I can assure the Minister of Economic Affairs that to AMT the customs pass will be included as a request in our committee motion in this area. We've already updated that part. Then I've told you. Madam President, I would like My final question to the Government is: how can it be that a problem highlighted in this House for almost a decade has not gone further than a government mission for the relevant authorities to present a picture of the situation to the government, which may then – or should I say hopefully – lands in proposing measures which, apparently, can become a reality at the earliest in 2023?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-716	Madam President, I would like That, of course, is not an accurate description. Measures have been taken by the former bourgeois government, and measures have been taken by that government. Then I think you should be humble – I think Eric Palmqvist is also aware of – when it comes to meeting these kinds of problems and challenges, because they change character over time. A little over a decade ago we could see that there was a problem with copper theft in many other parts of the world. Then copper prices went up, and not least Trafikverket and some others began to discover that copper lines and other things disappeared. A number of measures have, of course, been taken. Some of them are technical. Some of them are about collaboration within the industry and within authorities. But it is quite clear that this crime will continue to change its character, not least in the case of international gangs which are partly feeding on it. Against this background, Madam President, I think it is absolutely right and proper that we ask a large number of authorities to cooperate on this crime. Because it's complicated. Moreover, it risks increasing and becoming a breeding ground for organised crime. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats and Eric Palmqvist should be careful to criticise us when we ask the police authorities, customs, conservation agencies and others to work together to do their utmost to prevent this. In essence, I believe that perhaps it is the best measure we can take, if we get a pooling of powers by a number of authorities, Madam President.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-720	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me how the government views the situation of the market and market trade in the wake of the coronapandemine and what initiatives the government intends to take with a view to providing the industry with reasonable conditions within the framework of the applicable pandemic legislation. The spread of infection, Madam President, remains at a high level in society, and even though we have now started vaccination against covid-19, the pandemic is far from over. As you know, the physical distance between people and the time they are living close to each other is crucial to the spread of infection, which we must continue to take action against. Unfortunately, many companies, including the market trade, have been hit economically very hard by the ongoing pandemic. The government has therefore introduced several support measures, including temporary reductions in employers' and self-employed contributions, temporary reductions in fixed rental costs in certain sectors, increased provisioning to the accrual fund, increased state liability for sick pay costs, deferral of tax payments, state loan guarantee to SMEs and increased possibility of receiving unemployment benefit when a company has previously been dormant. All these measures are available to the market. It has also proposed that several aid be extended until September. Madam President, I would like The law on special restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19 gives the government the opportunity to decide on more accurate rules that are adapted to what different activities look like. The Government has decided to introduce a more accurate regulation of various arrangements based on the risk of congestion and transmission of covid-19. This means, inter alia, that from 1 June 2021, i.e. next week, markets will be regulated as other trading venues rather than as a public event. Markets will therefore not be subject to the provisions on participation ceilings for general meetings and public events in the regulation( 2021:8) on specific restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19, the so-called restriction regulation. The Public Health Authority will be given the right to provide further regulations on the measures to be taken by markets to protect infection. Having said that, the government is closely monitoring the economic impact on companies and is constantly analysing the need for the necessary measures for business.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-725	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise for the answer to my interpellation. Market trade has a long history and is sometimes considered to be the oldest trade we have. Although new trade patterns have developed in line with increasing urbanisation and despite the fact that there is an opportunity to transport in ways that were not possible in the past, market trade has followed developments and adapted to modern society. Market trade is still an important cog in the tourism industry in many places in our country. The local summer market or winter market is often part of a historical heritage and often falls at a time when people who have left a community or a village travel home to meet relatives and friends who still live. Then they can also visit the market. Market trade, like many other parts of trade, has been adversely affected by the coronapandemine. There are not many market dealers travelling between the country's various markets, but they are severely affected economically by the ongoing pandemic. It can legitimately be argued that the industry has been effectively subject to a trade ban since March 2020 – this as a direct consequence of the restrictions introduced at that time under the law of the regime. Few question the fact that at the initial stage, when the covid-19 is known and no pandemic legislation is yet in place, they chose to severely restrict the possibilities of trading on the market. That is not what this interpellation is about either. At the time when I wrote this interpellation, markets were still regulated as public events in accordance with the rather square order legislation in this context, despite the fact that the government requested the law on special restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19, called the Pandemic Act, was applicable. We thus had a situation that meant that markets were basically prohibited even though the Public Health Agency claimed that the risk of infection outdoors is up to 20 times lower than it is indoors. Shopping in malls and shopping malls or, for that matter, driving in crowded public transport was therefore fully permitted while a whole industry was in reality banned from doing business even though it was mainly operating outdoors, where the risk of infection is lower. However, the Government's interpellation response shows that, as of 1 June 2021, markets will be regulated as other trading venues rather than as public events, which is a more reasonable approach and is in line with what I requested. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that the government finally landed in this position, although I cannot help but wonder why it took almost a year from the time we decided on the Pandemic Act in this House until it came into force for this severely affected trade. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will be able to give me an answer to this.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-732	Madam President, I would like The answer to Eric Palmqvist's question is very simple: when the law came into force in January, we were in a very powerful increase in the spread of infection, the so-called second wave, with suffering for people, with human lives spilled and a medical care, Eric Palmqvist, who after nine months of hard work was again in a position where they did their utmost for those who came in. I think there are very many of us who also know people who have suffered from this disease and need medical care. We know what that meant. Do Eric Palmqvist and the Swedish Democrats seriously mean that we should have said precisely in this situation that we are now introducing more liberal measures? We heard, Madam President, in a previous interpellation a colleague of Eric Palmqvist criticise Lena Hallengren for not getting freer hands. Now it is a question of market traders, and I think that if you look at the Minutes of the Interpellations, Madam President, you will see this in the area by area. I would have liked all that to have been possible. But now the answer to Eric Palmqvist's question is that when the law came into force on 1 January, we were in a second wave with increased strain on health care and more people who died. Does Eric Palmqvist seriously mean that the most important thing for the government in this situation would have been to say that we are now using the Pandemic Act to open up more businesses?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-735	Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of rules that are logical and strict. As I mentioned, it can be full on the subway, shopping malls and airports – I myself have been out flying, and it could be full – but markets outside could not be kept. I believe that rules which are not understandable and which do not follow a logical pattern undermine people's confidence in the rules that exist, and that can have a directly damaging effect. I know what the situation is. I myself come from Gällivare where we have had a huge corona outbreak, and my wife is a nurse. So I do not need any more pointers from the Government on this point. I am one of those who are trying to take my responsibility and do what is required of me during this pandemic. I know that the Ministry and the Government responsible for these issues have been heavily burdened by the pandemic, and I have great respect for this. Contacts between the committee and the department have been frequent. The Minister for Industry has sold some things that we think have been good, but we haven't agreed on everything. One unfortunate circumstance in this connection which I would like to emphasise is that these illogical restrictions are difficult to follow and absorb. Persevering and persevering requires a popular understanding and acceptance of the guidelines and recommendations that are decided and communicated. To decide one day that a maximum of eight people can attend a funeral in Uppsala Cathedral while flights from Stockholm to Luleå are crowded and the subways are full of people creates a lack of confidence in the rules that they advocate. I think that is unfortunate and dangerous – dangerous because it undermines people's willingness to do the right thing and make the sacrifices that the government is urging them to make. The Government also highlights in its response to me a series of measures aimed at improving the situation of market traders during the current pandemic. Some of them are good. Some may not have hit the spot, but neither were the support measures I primarily asked for in my interpellation. However, Madam President, I intend to highlight an example from the reality of how aid measures can actually miss the target even if the intentions have been good. I was recently in contact with Rune, an entrepreneur who produces goods that are almost exclusively sold by market dealers in the country's markets. He runs a company that has never needed support or similar, but the company was before Corona a prosperous company. When the pandemic struck, he basically lost all his sales, as his customers – the merchants – were effectively banned from business. His own company was not subject to any restrictions, but he basically got rid of his entire customer base. His salvation has been to be able to short-term lay off his employees. However, there is a cloud of concern in the sky, and that is that his sales and thus production are highly seasonal. He believes that the framework for short-term lay-off is square and does not take sufficient account of the special circumstances of seasonal activities. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore what he wants to say about this in order to reassure Mr Rune and other traders who are in the same situation as he is.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-745	Madam President, I would like It wasn't as much a touch stick as a question. I did not get an answer to the question, so I repeat: Do the Swedish Democrats and Eric Palmqvist think that the best thing would have been if the government had introduced liberalisations into the regulatory framework when the law came into force in January? It's a simple question, so I'm looking forward to an answer. It's not much of a touch stick. Then, unfortunately, Madam President, the description given by Mr Palmqvist is not quite correct. It is not that we have imposed a large number of restrictions on certain activities, while others are allowed to continue as usual. Eric Palmqvist cites aviation as an example. You could call it a good example or a bad one. I am responsible for Swedavia within the government and also the share – 20% – of SAS owned by the Swedish people, and I know that the decline in aviation over the past year has been 80 – 90%. This applies not least to the period that Mr Palmqvist is talking about. Sometimes it has almost stood still for known reasons, like people should not be out travelling. Madam President, I would like The question is, has this been fair? No. It hasn't been fair for the medical staff. It has not been fair for the people who have been affected. It has not been fair for the cultural sector, the sports movement, the tourism industry, the hotels or the restaurants. It has not been fair for anyone who has been affected by this. Nevertheless, Madam President, like all other parts of the world, we ended up here. For the government it was very important to get a large number of measures in place and gradually also adjust them. Of course, at the speed of working while running, not everything is perfect. It is also against this background that I have appreciated the dialogue with Parliament and have ensured that many of the constructive proposals that came in not least last spring. Then we stood together, many of us, because the country, the nation of Sweden, faced the worst crisis we have experienced since the Second World War. Then it is important and good that you stand together. We introduced a large number of measures. These measures have had an effect, but it is clear that there have also been border problems in these. Some of the problems we have addressed as we go along, but many of these measures are about mitigating the effects, as I said back in March last year when we went into this. It is clear that it would be very powerful to stand and promise that there will be no negative consequences. But that would not have been true, because we have never experienced such a broad, deep and, above all, long crisis for parts of Swedish business. There are a number of evaluations, Madam President, and we will, of course, have learned a great deal both from the good that has been done and from what has not been good. We shall draw conclusions from this, and I look forward to the policy as a whole being able to take on board it as a whole. Madam President, I would like We have made a number of changes, and I hope and believe that this is now permanent. The light in the tunnel that the Prime Minister was talking about is, above all, that we are now up to over 4 million people who are vaccinating themselves. If everyone takes the opportunity to do what I did yesterday, i.e. take the chance to vaccinate themselves, we will ensure that both the merchants and everyone else can get completely different conditions by defeating the infection. It is basically the problem.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-752	Madam President, I would like I see the proof that the Minister for Economic Affairs is a more busy gentleman than I am; I actually had time to vaccinate myself about a week before the Government. In so doing, I have also assumed my responsibilities. Let me answer the question I was asked. I believe that strict and logical rules are of the utmost importance in order to win people's acceptance. Either there are rules for the market players that are in harmony with other things, or there are rules for other things that are in harmony with these rules. But there's got to be a red thread that makes sense. If it is not understandable, you do not get people to follow the recommendations or rules they face. Rules that feel unwarranted or in some way do not follow a logical pattern are extremely harmful. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I do not have a final question for the Government. The conditions for what was in my original interpellation have changed since I wrote the interpellation. My hope is that we can soon see the end of the pandemic and that we can all be helped to take responsibility for limiting the spread of the disease.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-756	Madam President, I would like The absolute best and most important way to take responsibility now is exactly what Eric Palmqvist said, namely to do as we have done and even the chance when you are offered vaccines. It is quite clear – with all due respect for the measures that have been taken in recent years in a number of countries, whether it has been lockdowns or not lockdowns – that the only thing that can eventually defeat the virus is vaccination. Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist calls for stringent and harmonised rules. I can tell you that when you end up where we ended up last March, the great danger is the one looking for perfect rules, especially for a pandemic that we have never had before. It is a situation that neither we nor anyone else has been in. In this situation, I am absolutely convinced that the most important thing was speed, that is to say, to quickly put in place support measures and measures to limit the infection. It was crucial. When we get out of the pandemic and can compare and see how different countries have done, we will see that in terms of over-mortality, how many people became ill, effects on employees and unemployment, and effects on employment and companies, Sweden has done well. But has it been good? No, I think we agree on that. I was about to say a disrespectful word in the Parliament's pulpit – but I am not going to do that, Madam President – but the situation has been anything but ideal, and we have done our utmost to develop balanced rules to curb the infection. Regardless of what Eric Palmqvist says, I think that the Swedish people have responded well to the rules and measures in a difficult time. Thank you very much.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-760	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me how my view on the need for the establishment of new mines in Sweden harmonizes with the fact that the two government parties in the Riksdag consistently reject all proposals aimed at clarifying and simplifying the licensing processes that regulate the mining industry, and whether the government intends to take measures that specifically aim to strengthen Sweden's position as a mining nation and thus increase our supply level regarding metals and minerals. Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, wealth and mining of minerals and metals that are important for a green transition. Sweden will continue to develop the mining industry and at the same time be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development. It is important for the government that Sweden has several and effective permit processes. The licensing processes in the mining and mineral sector are regulated in both the Environmental Code and the Mineral Act (1991:45). The Government has appointed the MILITARY Investigation (M 2020:06) with the mandate to propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental review. The investigation shall submit its report in December 2021. In addition, the Government has established an investigation into trial processes and regulations for the sustainable supply of innovation critical metals and minerals (N 2021:01). The study will analyse and propose changes to review processes and regulations so that better account can be taken of both a project's local environmental impact and its societal benefits, such as reduced global climate impact, and so that a larger share of the value generated by the mining and minerals industry can benefit the whole country. The report will be submitted by the end of October 2022. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Courts Authority, the County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to produce aggregated statistics for the environmental review. Such statistics are important, not least in order to monitor the development of processing times and to identify appropriate efficiency measures. The assignment was presented on 12 May 2021. Madam President, I would like Increasing recycling and strengthening the circular economy are important efforts made, inter alia, within the framework of the Government's circular economy strategy and action plan. The government will continue to support the development of sustainable value chains from raw material to input or end product. In such work, Sweden's mining and mineral industry and the mining cluster as a whole are key players. The Government has also continued its work linked to the Government's Smart Industry Strategy, where the mining and minerals industry is included. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government also finances an investment in metals and minerals from secondary sources.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-764	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. Swedish mining industry has a very long tradition. It has been and still is a cornerstone for us as an industrial nation. Swedish mining industry is modern and distinct from many people's image of dirty men with picks in narrow mines with wooden stylists. Our mining industry is at the forefront in terms of both safety and innovation, and it is closely linked to the Academy. In Sweden's mines are not only extracted metals and minerals, but also developed everything from energy-saving ventilation systems to heavy trucks and highly specialised mining machines. In the Swedish mining industry, research is being carried out, and new environmentally friendly break methods and processes are being developed for after-work – what is wrongly called restoration in the people's mouth. I want it to be like that. I want us to be better at valuing this for the country's prosperity important industry. I want us to remain at the top and be a respected and respected nation in this area. I want us to have the world's most modern and environmentally friendly mining industry, and I want us to show the world that it is possible without child labour, slave-like working conditions and extreme environmental impact. Madam President, I would like When, in an interview some time ago, the Minister for Economic Affairs stated that new mines are needed if we are to succeed in electrification and that we can not only disagree when we read that cobalt is extracted by children's workers in Congo, I naturally agreed, but I also started to think. I came to think about how it might be that a country with a government whose representatives speak in such positive terms still falls as a stone in an international comparison between mining nations. Because here's the thing, Madam President. In four years, from 2016 to 2020, Sweden as a mining nation has declined from eighth to 36th place in the prestigious Fraser Institute's ranking of countries in which international companies consider it attractive to invest. From playing in the same league as the United States, Australia and Canada, we now place ourselves together with countries like Mali and Ghana. To reverse that trend, fine words are not needed. To reverse this development, you need to spit in your fists and roll up your sleeves. I note that in the Government's response there are many fair words about the Swedish mining industry and its importance to us as a nation. Nothing wrong with that. However, apart from investigations and compilations of government statistics linked to environmental testing, I do not see a single syllable suggesting something similar to a single sharp proposal aimed at reversing the downward trend, and that, Madam President, makes me worried. So my question to the Government is still: Does the government intend to take measures – i.e. take concrete decisions – that aim to strengthen Sweden's position as a mining nation and thus increase our self-sufficiency in metals and minerals?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-773	Madam President, I would like The question is, of course, why in this Parliament we say no to some of the initiatives that have come from the opposition. That was the basic question. The answer is quite simple: if work is already under way, it is like trying to break open doors. I understand that the opposition has an interest in this because it wants to act forcefully. However, if an investigation is already under way to look at these particular regulations, there is not much point in saying it again. In this case, Madam President, Eric Palmqvist is now saying that that is unnecessary, but if he reads through these rankings properly, he sees that Sweden is doing very well in terms of sustainability, technology, production and investment. Let us remember that the mining industry has never gone better than it does today. The mining industry in Sweden also plans for investments that are not only the largest ever for the mining sector but the largest industrial projects ever in our country. It is planned to invest up to 400 billion over the next 20 years – not least in the northern part of the country, where there are very great conditions. It's a fact. If we are talking about actual development and not just rankings, then, Madam President, there is almost no other country in Europe that produces so much minerals and metals. Only iron ore – the lion's share of iron ore produced in the European Union is produced in Sweden. I would say, then, that in many ways we claim to be well-off as a mining nation. We will continue to do so. What is, on the other hand, a problem, which can be found in this ranking if you delve into it, is precisely our regulations. They are considered to be too unpredictable, and the processes take too long. It does not take into account the positive role that the mining industry could play in terms of climate change. For those who may not be as familiar with the issues as I and Eric Palmqvist are, I can say that much of the climate change and electrification that is necessary for us to be able to move from fossil energy to electricity requires a large number of minerals and metals – including rare earth metals. A lot of this is in our country. Today we are dependent on imports, both we and Europe; in some cases we are almost 100% dependent on imports. This is the case, and I think that is why Mr Palmqvist refers to what I say about us not only being able to disagree when we see reports that cobalt is extracted with the help of child labour, that rivers have been polluted or that workers are poisoned in mines in Asia. Of course, we must also act. What, then, is the problem? Yes, if the regulatory framework is considered to be the problem in, for example, Fraser Institute's ranking, Eric Palmqvist, is probably the most responsible to look through the regulatory framework with the aim of increasing predictability and getting the climate aspect in a different way than the current environmental code and mineral law takes into account. That is how it is done, Madam President-in-Office, especially with regard to this complex legislation, which goes into several laws and which has many different interests to balance. Then we ask experts to come up with a proposal, and that is exactly what the government is doing at the moment, both in terms of environmental testing and in terms of the mineral law.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-779	Madam President, I would like It's nice to hear about the industrial initiatives that will take place at home – these SEK 400 billion will of course be invested in Gällivare – but it is also an existing business. In the last 15 years, it has in principle not opened any mine in Sweden at all. There is also an example of the problem. Otherwise, I can say that I share the view of the Government that issues relating to permit processes are not quite simple. The issues are complex and deserve to be dealt with with with great respect. I am therefore very concerned that there have been clear signals about these problems for a long time without the government having acted. The fact that things are being investigated is, of course, not something I object to – it is often the very prerequisite for making informed decisions – but I wonder why the investigations are being set up only now, when the signals have been there for about a decade. The Minister for Industry will be happy to answer that question. Madam President, I would like However, while we are debating Sweden as a mining nation here today, I feel that a few clarifications are in order to nuance the debate somewhat. It may seem that I and the Minister for Economic Affairs represent diametrically different views of the Swedish mining industry, and that is not the case, of course. I believe that in many respects we share the view on the requirements and expectations to be placed on the industry in order for the industry as such to gain acceptance in the areas in which it wishes to establish itself. Perhaps there are those who interpret my appeal to nutrition and argue for the importance of giving the clear rules of the game or faster state processes such as that I represent some kind of mine fundamentalist line where no single plot of land with deposits should be allowed to be protected, but that is not the case, of course. I also believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs knows this, but it may be useful to clarify this to potential audiences. However, I believe in clear requirements, harmonised licensing processes and reasonable timeframes. The Minister for Industry mentions recycling and circular economy in his response. Let me be clear that there is no contradiction between the recycling and mining of virgin materials. In order for something to be recovered, it must first be broken. This applies not least to the innovation-critical minerals we have no tradition of breaking, but it also applies to the basic metals we have broken for many hundreds of years. For much of the iron and copper that have been broken long ago are in fact still in use. This means that it is not available for recycling. You simply cannot scrap workable things just for the sake of recycling. On the other hand, it is of course a kind of ethical responsibility for us to use, as far as is reasonable, what is already broken. It's also a good deal, because it's already broken once. Each meter of mine costs a lot of money to prepare; in Malmberget, every meter of town is said to cost about SEK 25,000. But we must ensure that, however sad it may be, our feet remain on earth and not be seduced by our colleagues in the dandelion movement when they proclaim their dreamy but world-reverse reality, at least if we do not want to encounter yet another hard awakening the next time the ranking from the Fraser Institute lands on our tables. Madam President and the Government. I began this speech with a question and conclude by repeating it in order not to forget it. Why are the government's inquiries only now being added to the interpellation response, when the signals that the situation is worrying have been in place for about a decade?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-786	Madam President, I would like No, I also do not think that the differences of opinion are, in essence, very great when it comes to the attitude towards mines. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a difference in the view of both virgin material and recycling. We want to be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We have set that goal and ambition during our government period, because we believe that the best thing not only for the environment and the climate but also for Swedish competitiveness is to ensure that we are not so dependent on oil. This applies regardless of whether the oil comes from Russia or, for that matter, the Middle East – or even Norway. Instead, we can make sure to use the clean, fine electricity we have in Sweden. If we are to do that, Madam President, we must make a large-scale electrification of industry and of the transport sector and continue with what is already in the housing sector. It will assume that we can use minerals and metals at a level that we have never been on before. Eric Palmqvist should also be aware of this. We are not the only ones to do this either; although Sweden lies primarily and in many ways leads the way, not least in the mining industry, this transformation must be done globally. The forecasts are therefore that the demand for these minerals and metals will increase by a hundredfold in the coming decades alone. This applies not least to the rare earths we are talking about. Then, too, Madam President, one cannot constantly dig for new ones. There has also been a technological development here. Only up in Kiruna, in the slag heaps that LKAB has put on high during the last hundred years when there has been mining there, it turns out that in what was previously only seen as trouble there are rare earth metals, minerals and metals that could actually be recycled. Technology, Madam President, has moved forward so that it can actually be done, and the economy is also beginning to catch up. Then it is clear as sausage pad, Eric Palmqvist, that we should also focus on that type of recycling. In our country, we have companies with innovations that have developed technologies that can recycle things that were not possible to recycle before. It is clear that we are going to develop a regulatory framework that makes this possible, because today it is not possible. Madam President, I would like I think it is a mistake to set competitive mining against recycling and the circular economy. I think we need both, and I think that Sweden can play a key role in both these contexts. Madam President, I would like I was asked why it has been delayed, and it is very simple. Eric Palmqvist tries to claim that everything is known all the time, but it is not that simple, but there is a gradual change here, not least in the practice of these regulations. There have not been such huge changes in the regulations themselves, but practices in courts have come to change. Sometimes regulations also come from elsewhere – for example, water directives, which also affect mining. Then it's clear that we need to get this together and make a move, and that's exactly what we're doing. I feel great enthusiasm that Sweden and the Swedish people, if we handle this right when it comes to both mining and recycling, have a lot to gain from this and that we can do it in a way that benefits the climate and the environment but also leads to new green jobs, not only in Gällivare – all 400 billion will not end up in Gällivare – but in most of Norrbotten.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-796	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Enterprise. I thought I was absolutely clear in my last speech that there is no contradiction between virgin mining and recycling. I don't know how I can say it more clearly, but at least that's the way it is. Much of what the Minister for Economic Affairs says sounds great. I really want to take him at his word and believe that he has the best of intentions for the mining industry that is so important to Sweden. Nevertheless, it is something that is damaging, and it is the fact that we in this House have debated this issue repeatedly and from the opposition's side put forward proposals on concrete measures which, if they had been implemented, would very likely have positioned Sweden somewhat better as a mining nation than is now the case. Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to understand the reasons for the slowness that the government has shown in dealing with these issues, especially in the light of saying one but doing something else. It will be somewhat incomprehensible, and I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs will turn down when I say that the basis for this is the cooperation of the Social Democrats with the Green Party. He has refused to do so in the past, and of course he will do so as a representative of the whole government. Having said that, Madam President, I look forward to what the investigations referred to by the Minister of Finance will bear for fruit, and I and the Government will have reason to debate Sweden's position as a mining nation again in this House. As this is most likely my last debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs before Parliament's summer break, I take the opportunity to wish him a pleasant and Corona-proof summer, although I know that he has a lot of work ahead of him before he goes on his summer leave.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-802	Madam President, I would like It is a favorite record to play for the opposition right now, both for the Swedish Democrats and for their newfound love The Moderates, to claim that there are frictions in the government between the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats when it comes to industry. I can't believe it's just the opposite! With the focus that the Green Party has had on the environment and climate for a long time and the strong tradition that exists within the Social Democracy in terms of industrial development – which, thankfully, is now also bearing fruit, unlike ten years ago when it was thought that the industry was coming out completely – we have created a dynamic with strict demands and ambitions in terms of climate change and investment in industrial development and innovation. This, Madam President, means that, together with industry, we are taking steps to perhaps create the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. Earlier when you said it, you were told, as we heard now, that that's-- what did you say, Eric Palmqvist – dandelion dreams. Imagine that these are also dreams for a solid greysosse from Norrland! Now we see that what was a truth for a great number of decades, that industry was going away and had done good things but historically, is changing, and that is changing precisely in the part of the country that had been condemned, that is, the northern part of our country. In Västerbotten and Norrbotten hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars of investment are planned, and tens of thousands and tens of thousands of new green jobs are created. Madam President, I would like No, this is not about some schisms within the government, but this is about a development that we should all be proud of and make sure to help. With that, Eric Palmqvist, I thank you for your good wishes. There'll probably be a lot of work. We do not know how this progresses, but I still wish you a nice weekend and a restful summer if that happens.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-808	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether there is reason to investigate the data that the management of the so-called billion-dollar loan affected the government's management of Raoul Wallenberg. He has also asked me whether the government intends to ask whether Russia has information that supports the information that Josef Stalin had Raoul Wallenberg kidnapped to secure the billion-dollar loan from Sweden. Furthermore, he has asked me if according to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' documentation it is true that Sweden's envoys in Moscow at least three times in 1945 and 1946 asked high Soviet officials to confirm that Raoul Wallenberg was no longer alive and how the government assesses that the Swedish ambassador acted on the basis of a conscious policy sanctioned by Sweden regarding Raoul Wallenberg. Finally, he has asked me whether I intend to request more information on prisoner number 7 and whether the government is considering setting up a new independent investigation into the official management of Raoul Wallenberg's fate. Raoul Wallenberg personifies the Swedish work for human rights, and his work continues to inspire people of all ages and different origins. Much is still unclear as to the fate of Raoul Wallenberg in the Soviet Union of Stalin. The government has been working over the past decades to create the greatest possible clarity in his case through dialogue with the Soviet Union and Russia and in cooperation with other states as well as through contacts with relatives and the scientific community. I presented this work, among other things, on 28 April in response to a parliamentary question from the Member of Parliament Björn Söder, on 16 December 2020 in response to a parliamentary question from a Member of Parliament a Mikael Oscarsson and on 7 February 2020 in response to an interpellation from the same Member. A very detailed analysis of the actions of the Russian and Swedish public administration, including its own Swedish shortcomings, has taken place. The Swedish part of the Swedish-Russian working group presented a report in 2001 after ten years of work, and in 2003 the report A Diplomatic Failure was published. The government is not considering setting up a new independent investigation into the official management of Raoul Wallenberg's fate. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs does not conduct any research of its own in the Wallenberg case, but welcomes all attempts to ascertain more about his fate, including the importance of export credit for the government's handling of the matter and whether the Swedish envoy Söderblom acted in accordance with a conscious, sanctioned policy and the motives for Stalin's actions. It is up to researchers and experts to investigate and evaluate these issues. An important part of the efforts to facilitate researchers' work was the Government's decision on 22 August 2019 to publish approximately 40,000 pages of documents from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' case of Raoul Wallenberg during the period 1970–2018. Since earlier, all documents from the period before 1970 had been published. A total of 170 000 pages are thus available to the public, which is also the entire Ministry for Foreign Affairs' archive on the matter. All documentation regarding meetings between Swedish envoys and Soviet representatives can be found in this archive. The government is in contact with Russia with a view to ensuring the greatest possible transparency on their part. During my visits to Moscow in February 2020 and 2021 respectively, I also raised the case of Wallenberg during the discussions with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov. I then emphasized the importance of the Russian side facilitating the work of researchers, including by answering the note submitted on 31 October 2019 on behalf of Wallenberg's relatives to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where a number of questions related to prisoner number 7. This note has been partially answered and the replies have been forwarded to the relatives. Our Embassy in Moscow and officials at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Stockholm are in continuous contact with relatives of Wallenberg and researchers to facilitate their continued work, including assisting in meeting Russian representatives in relevant ministries and archives. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs will continue to raise the issue at different levels in our contacts with Russia.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-815	Madam President, I would like It is now 76 years since Raoul Wallenberg was captured. Probably by direct order of Stalin in Budapest, Hungary, where Wallenberg had saved tens of thousands of Jews from certain death. According to the Russian official version, he died in the KGB prison in central Moscow on July 17, 1947. But now we know, and it has been confirmed in various ways, that prisoner number 7, confirmed to have been Raoul Wallenberg, was questioned six days after his death. Raoul Wallenberg became famous all over the world and is perhaps together with Alfred Nobel the most famous Swede. He became an honorary citizen of the United States second after Winston Churchill. I myself have fought for the introduction of Raoul Wallenberg's day in Sweden, and it has been implemented for a number of years. Raoul Wallenberg had a sister named Nina Lagergren. I've been in contact with her for 30 years. She died quite exactly two years ago. I promised her and her family that I would do everything in my power to try to find out what really happened. Recently, researchers Susanne Berger, Vadim Birstein and especially Peter Axelsson have obtained new information. Therefore, the members of Raoul Wallenberg's family are calling for a new investigation into the official handling of his fate. It is true, as Ann Linde says, that an analysis of the Swedish state administration's actions has taken place. According to the SOU report, the failure to save Raoul Wallenberg has been attributed, among other things, to carelessness, incompetence and lack of interest. But now there are data that indicate that behind Sweden's passive action in fact there was a motive. Nothing should interfere with the Swedish government's plans for a Swedish billion-dollar credit, as it does not even seem to be a imprisoned Swedish diplomat. A motive behind Sweden's passive action to save Raoul Wallenberg represents a serious shift in the case of Raoul Wallenberg. Then the government's passive action is no longer based on negligence or on incompetence or lack of interest. In fact, Sweden's passive action may have been a conscious act. If so, Madam President, it is extremely serious. Each democratic country had thoroughly and officially investigated suspicions of a previous government deliberately acting passively in its ambition to save one of the country's greatest heroes. A previous official investigation which, what it seems on the wrong grounds, rejected a motive does not, of course, prevent a new investigation. On the contrary, it provides grounds for reopening the investigation. Is it not unreasonable for researchers to investigate whether it is a betrayal from Sweden and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs against their own diplomat? It must be the sent country that was responsible for Raoul Wallenberg that is going to the bottom of this. I'm not going to go through everything that happened. But what lies at the bottom is a credit that they wanted to carry out. I will continue in my next speech to explain why it is necessary for Raoul Wallenberg and his family to now investigate unconditionally what was behind the abduction.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-827	Madam President, I would like Every time I stand in this House and talk about Raoul Wallenberg, I take this opportunity to say that he is a symbol of Sweden's work on human rights. The interpellant gives me a grateful reason to recall the work of Wallenberg, which inspires people of all ages and different origins. I understand that the uncertainty that persists around what happened to him on 17 January 1945 continues to plague his relatives and encourages people to seek answers to outstanding questions. The government has been assisting for a long time in trying to turn over all the stones in order to create the greatest possible clarity in his case. And as Mikael Oscarsson knows, on several occasions I have detailed these efforts. I would like to reiterate today that Mr Wallenberg's case remains open and that the government acts accordingly. A leading principle for the government in this work is openness and transparency, as illustrated by the government's public investigation A diplomatic failure from 2003, which identified several Swedish shortcomings in dealing with Wallenberg's case, especially during the important years immediately after the Second World War. Since August 2019, the entire file has been in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' archives, 170 000 pages, fully accessible to the public. The exception is an extremely small part of the archive which is deemed to contain information which is still covered by confidentiality but which is not relevant for investigating Wallenberg's fate. At the same time, the government has also made it clear that it does not carry out its own research on the matter, but rather welcomes historians and academics to do so, which is also happening and in many cases with concrete support from the government. Madam President, I would like Access to documents in Russian archives is a prerequisite for bringing greater clarity to Wallenberg's fate. The government is in contact with official Russian representatives in order to achieve maximum transparency on their part. As you know, I personally raised the case of Wallenberg during my visits to Moscow in February 2020 and 2021, respectively, during discussions with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov. I also recalled the importance of the matter as late as last week, when I talked to him in Reykjavik. However, the government is not considering setting up a new independent investigation into the official management of Raoul Wallenberg's fate. The questions raised by Mikael Oscarsson, for example, about the importance of export credit, and Mr Söderblom's actions are appropriately answered by researchers and experts, whose efforts, as I said, I welcome.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-835	Madam President, I would like I go back to 1946, when the balt extraction had caused a great irritation in Sweden. Nevertheless, the then Social Democratic government went ahead with a Russian credit of as much as SEK 1 000 million, 1 billion, an almost unimaginable sum. But it was kept secret. At the end of April, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish envoy met Brezjnev. They agreed to implement the trade agreement. The next day there were happy offers, because then the ambassador Staffan Söderblom was informed that the Swedish Raoul Wallenberg was probably alive. The ambassador then went home to Sweden to meet Foreign Minister Undén on 5 May. They probably discussed this case. At the same time, a Swedish delegation went away. I have a picture in front of me here from Svenska Dagbladet where the delegation goes to negotiate everything around the credit. They will return to Sweden on June 13, 1946. The ambassador had then asked for a special meeting with Stalin. Normally it could not be obtained, but with the billion-dollar credit this request was accepted. On June 15, 1946, Stalin receives Ambassador Söderblom, and it is quite eerie to read the note from there. It was kept secret for decades, but Söderblom says: No, I think it is likely that the Soviet military authorities have no further information about Wallenberg's further fates. If you read it all, the purpose of meeting Stalin seems to have been to ensure that Raoul Wallenberg does not show up in the future. Critics have sometimes compared the conversation in the Kremlin to a death sentence. Two days later, June 17th, Expressen here at home can get the billion-dollar credit confirmed. The chain of events is possibly attributed but difficult to chance. The investigation dismisses the billion-dollar credit as an explanation for passive action. It is said, among other things, that the interest at the time was relatively weak. But there are many newspaper articles that show that this was not the case. The media showed great interest, and it was on the front page. The investigation also states that the transaction should be considered economically justified rather than politically justified. From the debate, however, the background to credit was highly political. According to the investigation, there was a knowledge and consensus on this. It is true that Minister Myrdal heard about this, but he did not mention a word about the size of the credit, that is, that they would receive 1 billion. He also received criticism afterwards for not having told the truth. I will return to the fact that if everything leads to the fact that there seems to have been a motive from the Swedish side concerning the fact that those to whom you would lend had the most famous Swede captured, is it really reasonable that the Swedish government thinks that researchers should investigate this? Is it not reasonable that Sweden officially reopens the investigation and investigates what was really behind it?
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-842	Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Raoul Wallenberg is our largest single and most long-standing case. In addition to my own talks with Foreign Minister Lavrov, officials at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and at the Moscow Embassy are in constant contact with representatives of the Russian side in trying to assist researchers and relatives in their efforts to gain access to documents that may be relevant to Wallenberg's case. In the comprehensive note submitted to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in October 2019 on behalf of relatives, a number of documents from Russian archives, including documents relating to the so-called prisoner number 7 were requested. This note has been partially answered and the replies have been forwarded to the relatives. I would like to reiterate that we are ready to continue to facilitate the work of relatives by, for example, helping if they wish to visit Moscow to meet with the Russian side as follow-up to the note on requested documents. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs will continue to raise the issue at different levels in our contacts with Russia.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-845	Madam President, I would like The essence of what I am saying is that there is reason to ask itself what would have happened if it were found that Raoul Wallenberg, Sweden's hero, was imprisoned in the Soviet Union? The generous billion-dollar credit would have been made impossible, and dark shadows would have fallen on its advocates. On the basis of these premises, Sweden's message to Stalin about the accident of Raoul Wallenberg is not only, as has been claimed, an unfortunate statement. It is possible to imagine a motive behind the message to Stalin, and that is why the Swedish investigation into Raoul Wallenberg must be resumed. It's a good thing that the embassy is setting up a meeting. But if it is a betrayal of our own diplomat, it must take more action than that. Can we agree that it is serious that the Swedish Government is accused of deliberately betraying its diplomat? Should we not agree, then, that Sweden should resume the investigation into the fate of Raoul Wallberg? The family has today made a statement stating that it would be of interest to publish information about where Sverker Åström, who had an important role, actually stood. There's a lot of classified information there. As I said, this has come to light today. We all want to bask in the glory of Raoul Wallenberg. What he did was amazing, and he is an example to all of us. But in the last six months, information has come to light that does not allow only researchers to take responsibility. Sweden must take its responsibility and get to the bottom of what happened and what was behind it.
i-ded95c5216f7bbd1-850	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mikael Oscarsson once again for raising the issue of the fate of Raoul Wallenberg. It is important that his life and works be noted even today. Work on this important matter continues, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in close contact with relatives and researchers with the shared hope that one day we will know exactly what happened to Raoul Wallenberg.
