i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-7	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with what I always forget, namely to wish Merry Christmas, because perhaps this is the last time I will be standing in the speaker's chair for this year. Merry Christmas, everyone watching! I would also like to wish the parliamentary staff of the committee a Merry Christmas and thank them for the past year. On 24 November, Parliament established the financial framework for expenditure category 16 Education and university research, which is what we are going to debate today. There was then a majority in favour of an amendment tabled by Mr M, Mr KD and Mr SD. A budget is a whole, and what won the majority was a very small part of the whole. The rest is obviously not agreed, but it is a very small piece that has been agreed upon. I mean, that's not quite good enough. For seven years, we have seen an S-led government that has talked, compromised and reached agreement even across bloc boundaries. That's how you lead a country. Nevertheless, I am pleased, because the small part still means that what we are debating today is largely about the budget of the S-led Government, and it is quite intact. Within Category 16, the focus is on four things on which we put resources and point the direction. It's about a lot of money, almost 100 billion. The first of the four areas is about resources for more knowledge and greater equality in preschool and in school. For example, we are adding a new school billion. We are strengthening the equivalence contribution, which is so extremely important and gives the most to those who need it most. We are introducing a socio-economically-weighted state grant for preschool. When it comes to preschools, we also spend money on outreach activities and invest in language development. We strengthen student health in the joint school elections. It is important to have a meeting place where children of different backgrounds meet, and therefore we want a common school choice where everyone can really choose school. We provide more support so that you can teach in smaller groups, and we increase access to school libraries. These were some examples from the first area. The second area is the strengthening of skills and training leading to jobs. There we continue to expand the great knowledge boost, which is about training places. This can, for example, apply to combination courses where you can both work and study at the same time if you have come here to Sweden from another country. It's about more places in folk high school. It is about professional Swedish for employees in welfare coming from other countries and much, much more. The third area concerns an accessible university, lifelong learning and a new transition study support. A higher education pedagogy lift so that you can really live all over Sweden and still study at higher education is very important. We're investing in more teachers. We know that teachers are leading the way, and that is why we need to invest in getting more teachers. We are also doing a reform of freedom, which is about being able to study in the middle of life with 80% of the salary for a whole year. It's a fantastic reform. Strengthened student health is also part of the area. The fourth area concerns increased funding for research at our universities and space research. It is about increased direct funding and an increase in the level of space research. It is clear that we have challenges when it comes to education. We have a lack of equivalence, and we are trying to do something about that. We have increased segregation. We have a lack of teachers. Today, it is a fact that for your results and your way forward in life, it matters what family you were born in. It is totally unacceptable that it should look like this. We have a school election that sort kids. We have a share of resources that is segregated and unfair on the basis of the responsibility that is taken. We have a school where children's and young people's results are business secrets. We have a school system where resourceful homes can opt out of other children. And we have political parties that do not want to do anything about the system errors that we see in Swedish school today. Today we have a school where not all children are allowed to succeed. But there are also flashes of light, and I thought I would focus the last of my speech on them. We Members of Parliament have the privilege of making many study visits when it is not a pandemic. During the pandemic we made many digital study visits. I myself have made many study visits, both digital and others, and I was going to bring up two of them. One I did only last week at Bergsjöskolan in Gothenburg. It was a fantastic study visit. I was with my colleagues from Gothenburg. Bergsjöskolan is located in a vulnerable area. Students at school speak 49 different languages. In 2014, they had an upper secondary school qualification of 18 per cent. Today it is over 60%. The school is part of a project in Gothenburg called School in the middle of the village. This means that the school is open on evenings and weekends, and you have a lot of association activities. There are many adults who are always there. They have a school management with Vice-Chancellor Monzer El-El-Sabini who has really invested in relationships. Everyone has relationships whether you're an adult or a child. Everybody's talking to everyone. Everyone cares about everyone. All children are everyone's children. There are high expectations of all children. The school has staff who have stayed and who have worked there for many years. And you bet on the language. They have a research project – a ULF project – about language. In fact, the languages that children bring into school are used. Children are not required to know Swedish first, but to use the home language. And the research shows that it's very successful. I was very impressed when I was there. They've got a piece left. But with their prerequisites, they have come a very long way. The second example I was going to mention is from the Forshaga Academy in Forshaga, Värmland. It has launched an individual-based vocational training programme for pupils with disabilities and a language disorder. The focus is knowledge, that all children and young people actually have abilities and that all children and young people know something. The students of this new program have traditionally been cared for throughout their lives. But now they get a chance to actually take their place in a labour market, of course with support. Two days a week, they're out on an internship. They have staff with them. The goal is for them to take their place in the regular labour market after they have attended the Forshaga Academy. School makes a difference. Per Johansson, School Manager at Forshaga Academy and Monzer El-El-Sabini, Vice-Chancellor at Bergsjöskolan, makes a real difference here and now, despite the conditions they have and despite the challenges. They see outside the box. I think it's amazing. In fact, we need to show that there are those who succeed with children too. Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear that we Social Democrats are not taking part in the decision on appropriations for Category 16 and I refer to our specific opinion. Finally, the cookie crumb of the right-wing conservatives to the budget – I must still call it that – shows what the forthcoming elections will be about. It is a choice between more for those who already have and more equality and more justice. And you're the one who chooses.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-33	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats admit that there are challenges in Swedish schools. When I thought yesterday about what necessary decisions we have made in this Parliament for the last seven years that improve Swedish school, I could not come up with a single concrete decision that allows more children to pass Swedish school and that more teachers go to a safe workplace. Madam President, I would like I think it's seven lost years in Swedish school. Those who suffer are the whole society, the growth in Sweden and of course the individual individuals. But what made me upset and that I had to ask a question was when Gunilla Svantorp spoke about the joint school elections and suggested that the Social Democrats will continue with the gigantic social experiment of letting the National Agency for Education take over the school elections and remove the decisions from the kitchen table. Madam President, I would like In our budget, we are talking about the Swedish National Agency for Education not implementing the Social Democrats' proposals for changing school elections. We say no to that in our draft budget. The school elections are still to be conducted by the municipalities and by families at home at the kitchen table. My question to Gunilla Svantorp is simply: Are the Social Democrats going to obstinate against Parliament's decisions, or is it just that Gunilla Svantorp has not read our draft budget?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-39	Madam President, I would like I think it is rather rude for Mr Olin to stand here in the speaker's chair and say that nothing has happened in seven years, that nothing has improved and that everything is just as bad as it was seven years ago. In fact, I think it is rather insolent, not least given that Mr Olin is sitting on a variety of transparency councils for our school authorities. I'm in one of them and I've been in another before. Every time we are there, we get reports of what has been done by the authority and what leads forward. But the honourable Member has obviously not heard any of it. This government has made a variety of efforts over the past years, including collaboration for the best school. We have the equivalence premium, and we have a variety of things. Not least, instead of reducing taxes, as the Moderates do all the time, we have invested in giving municipalities and regions more in state subsidies. That's a lot of money. We are up to SEK 22 1⁄2 billion right now that makes a difference not least for school and elderly care. So do not say that we have done nothing in these years that has led the way and that has done it well. When it comes to the school elections, I'm talking about what the Social Democrats want, and I'm talking about what the people want. There is a great aversion to the school system that we have today. I do not even think that the Moderate voters like the segregation and lack of equivalence of the school election system that we have today, where some schools can simply opt out of children. I would like to return the question: does Kristina Axén Olin not see anything that is not good with the school election system that we have today? Is everything tip-top?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-44	Madam President, I would like Every fourth child in Sweden does not pass the school. More than one in four children in grade 6 has not passed any subjects. It can't be proof that the school is going in the right direction, can it? Madam President, I would like Gunilla Svantorp cannot say a single concrete decision that we have taken here – not a single bill – to really improve school outcomes and ensure that all children are able to pass the school. There have been a lot of investigations, but no concrete decisions have been made here. The government cannot even present a proposal for resource schools for children with various neuropsychiatric diagnoses that avoid families worrying. Gunilla Svantorp will not answer if the Social Democrats intend to obstinate. They want to conduct a gigantic experiment and move the entire school elections from the municipalities to the Swedish National Agency for Education, where you should decide where children should be placed. And it shouldn't be preposterous. Even the Social Democrats in SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, do not support this.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-48	Madam President, I would like I want to tell you that we in my party are a party. We have a party congress that will decide what to work with in the future. That's what we look like. We do not therefore have Social Democrats in the Swedish Parliament versus Social Democrats, but we have the same Social Democrats who have a party congress decision to work from outside. Kristina Axén Olin calls what is going on a gigantic experiment. What is the free school system if not a gigantic experiment, which in addition there was no basis whatsoever – there were 28 pages? When we produce investigations today, there are thousands of pages with background facts, research and the current situation. But when the free school system was introduced, 28 pages were produced. What is it if not a gigantic experiment? Again, when Kristina Axén Olin says that nothing has happened in seven years and that one has not seen a single bill, it is scandalously bad.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-51	Madam President, I would like I can continue on the subject from the previous line shift. Gunilla Svantorp talks a lot about more knowledge and more equality. But what has really happened in the years in which the Social Democrats have been in power and have been able to run the school? Have there been amazing school results, raised to sky-high levels? Have we been able to see that Sweden as a knowledge nation emerges strongly and has a bright future? No. We lie still, and on certain subjects we even go backwards. Has the government managed to solve the teacher's qualifications? Have sharp proposals been made to remedy this? No. Instead, we see a problem in the fact that many teachers today in school do not want to work in the world of school. Why don't they want to? Yes, this is the third area which the Social Democrats have not been able to resolve, namely order and order in the classrooms. Should it be so difficult to develop regulations and guidelines for what should apply in a classroom? Should it be so difficult not to constantly protect those who mess up, fight, bully and practice violence and threats against other students or teachers? This should be a priority number one for a powerful government, but Gunilla Svantorp's party colleagues have not succeeded in doing so during these seven years. Has the status of the teaching profession been improved? Have you made a strong move there? There is a point after point that we can line up where nothing happens. This is the most paralysed government this country has ever seen.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-58	Madam President, I would like No, this is not the most paralysed government that has ever been seen, Patrick Reslow. As I said, we have had seven years with a lot of talks, a lot of cross-block discussions and an agreement containing 73 points – in practice there were 243 points – on which we agreed. What is in the agreement is now gradually grazing. Since we think it is important to have proper documentation based on research, it takes time to produce the proposals that will come forward, especially when there are several parties that will participate. I think, therefore, that we have done a very good job on the basis of the conditions we have had. On the other hand, as I said before, we can look at the small cake crumb for amendments to the budget tabled by Mr M, Mr KD and Mr SD. In it, for example, there is nothing about order in the classroom, which Patrick Reslow accuses us of not having. The honourable Member knows very well that such a proposal is on its way. It was included in the January agreement, and the bill will eventually come. However, it is not part of what you made up and which you put forward, Patrick Reslow. You can ask the question why it's not there. Then I still have to ask Patrick Reslow, who says that nothing has happened, that everything is terrible and that many teachers don't want to work in school anymore: Does Patrick Reslow never think about whether it can be the school system that makes teachers no longer feel that they want to work in school? Could it be the system itself that makes them feel like they can't? Whatever they do, it will not be right, because the resources are being misallocated. Patrick Reslow never thinks in those paths?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-62	Madam President, I would like There we have Gunilla Svantorp's and the Social Democrats' really big problems: You just want to talk about systems. The Social Democrats only speak systems. You don't talk about the things that are important to teachers and students, like that there should be order in the classrooms, that the teacher should have authority and be able to practice it in the classroom, that the teaching profession should have high status and so on. It's just the systems. It's all free school's fault. It is 19 percent of the students who go to free schools, so they control the rest of the students. It is only system thinking on the part of the Social Democrats, and that is the big problem. Instead, think of it this way: Seven years have passed in this round, but it was many more years before then that we saw the problems. Yet we are constantly getting the same answer: proposals are coming. But this is where we need the proposals – not yesterday, not the day before yesterday and, above all, not seven years ago.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-65	Madam President, I would like Patrick Reslow may ask for things to come, but obviously it's not that easy to get what you want when working with several different parties. Patrick Reslow himself has not been able to get what he thinks is important in the little cake crumb to the amending budget. So it's not that simple. Patrick Reslow says we want to talk systems all the time. Yes, of course we need to talk systems, because the system affects what happens in the classroom. This is the case: the system affects who wants to become a teacher, the system affects leadership and the system affects funding. The system is very important for us to have the best school, and that's why we need to talk about the system.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-67	Madam President, I would like I have a specific question about something that is very important for learning something in school, namely physical teaching materials. It is heard so to speak on the name that it is a means of learning. Today, nine out of ten teachers say that they lack the resources to buy the textbooks that students need, and this despite the fact that high quality textbooks have proven their importance for learning. The lack of resources for textbooks means – hold on now – that a teacher in Sweden spends on average 80 hours a year making home-made teaching materials. This lack of resources, which we not least notice now during the pandemic, makes it very difficult for parents, for example, to help children with schoolwork at home. Nevertheless, the government does not give priority to school textbooks, Madam President. It doesn't make any sense that you don't. The average amount spent per student per year corresponds to approximately what a subscription to Kalle Anka costs in Sweden, but the government does not give this priority. We in the Liberals have in our budget a very great effort to give municipalities and schools the opportunity to buy printed textbooks; we increase the grant by the equivalent of 50 percent per pupil over the next three years. My simple question to Gunilla Svantorp is: Why is the government doing nothing about this? Is it reasonable for Swedish teachers to spend 80 hours a year producing home-made teaching materials? How can they be quality assured in such cases? It is well better with teaching materials developed by educational institutions and book companies that are quality assured and so on. It is clear that it benefits everyone in the long run.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-72	Madam President, I would like I have absolutely no opinion other than that of Fredrik Malm on this issue. I also think that teaching materials are extremely important, and we have an investigation under way that I think will show it. We have had a January agreement with Fredrik Malm's party in recent years. In it, various parties have listed what has been important in school, and I have not seen that Fredrik Malm's party has listed this issue as important during the years we have worked on the issue. But I think it's good that we are more parties who want to do something about this, because I think just like Fredrik Malm it's not reasonable that you should sit and do your own teaching material. I therefore very much hope that the parties in this House will come to the conclusion that this is more important to spend money on than, for example, on reduced taxes or anything else.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-75	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is very positive that the Social Democrats agree with this. The problem is that you don't do anything about it. Nothing's happening. It is reasonable that the hundreds of thousands of students who attend Swedish schools receive printed textbooks and that teachers should not have to sit at home at night and in practice make their own textbooks. They should be able to buy this. It is also reasonable, and particularly important, that there are physical textbooks now that we are entering a new wave during the pandemic. There is a risk that there may be distance learning again in the future, and that is why it is extremely important. I am concerned that the government is apparently taking this lightly. Local funding obviously goes to other things, for unfortunately many municipal politicians do not give priority to this. That is why the targeted appropriations are needed.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-78	Madam President, I would like As I started with before, we have no different opinion. If the Liberals thought that this was the most important thing, perhaps one could have used some of what they fought the hardest for in the January agreement, namely to remove the military tax, to say that it is more important to have schoolbooks for all children. But they didn't. This is a new invention that is now most important. I also think it is very important that all children, not least from the point of view of equivalence, have physical school books. I hope that we will land in this together in this House eventually, when the investigation comes.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-80	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing everyone in the Education Committee, the fantastic secretariat of the Education Committee and all the staff around School Sweden who work with students and students every day a really good Christmas. The Centre Party does not take part in the decision because our draft budget fell in Parliament a few weeks ago, and I refer to our particular opinion. For the Center Party, it is important that every student is met with high expectations and given the support needed to achieve the knowledge goals in school and realize their dreams. Far too many students leave comprehensive school without eligibility for upper secondary school, and far too many leave upper secondary school without full grades. We have a shortage of teachers in Swedish schools that has become even more obvious, and teachers are forced to devote too much time to other things than preparing and carrying out teaching. Many schools are also characterised by a precarious and messy environment. This is a development that needs to be reversed. There is a need for reforms aimed at raising school skills, giving students and teachers a sense of peace in the classroom and ensuring that all schools are of high quality and that all pupils are able to learn well. To achieve this, we need to have more teachers, and we can do so by raising the status of the profession and ensuring that they have a good working environment and better opportunities for skills development, for example through the professional programme that is being introduced. Early efforts are needed, including in preschool, to meet those students who have the most difficult conditions and risk that later in school the results of knowledge are not successful. That way we can have an equal school. There too, staff are important, and it is therefore important that we ensure that there are career paths and opportunities for skills development for preschool teachers. We from the Center Party also want to see a child care lift to get more educated in preschool. The Center Party also sees a need for better statistics, follow-up and efforts to meet problematic school absences. When we discuss school, I would like to emphasise in particular that young people's mental health is a growing problem that we need to face. We need to make more efforts, not least to strengthen pupil health, which plays a key role in this context. With better health, students can also gain better knowledge. The school inspectorate's review of safety and education at school shows that the perceived safety at school has decreased over the past ten years. In order to create more security and study at school, the Center Party wants to strengthen the teacher's position in the classroom, provide better opportunities to act against messy students and strengthen inspections of those schools where security is most lacking. Madam President, I would like Sweden's students have the right to a high-quality education that increases the individual's opportunities in society and personal freedom and leads to jobs. In addition to starting from the curriculum and curriculum, the school will provide a solid basis for students' future entry into the labour market and lifelong learning. We have major challenges in the Swedish labour market where too many people do not have a job to go to and where companies have a pressing need for skills to continue to develop their businesses. There, the education system has a key role to play in meeting the skills gap that exists in many sectors. It concerns both upper secondary vocational education and vocational training and higher education in order for us to be able to cope with Swedish competitiveness. A number of measures are needed to achieve this. We need to ensure that vocational training, which for too long has attracted too few pupils, attracts more students to meet the needs that exist. We need to ensure that interaction with the surrounding society and the business community works better so that education and training becomes more relevant to the labour market. In the short term, it is important that we also ensure that there is an opportunity within Komvux to change and train in the shortage professions that exist, both in the public sector and in the private sector. In order to strengthen the link between education and training to the labour market and the possibility for people to apply for training that leads to jobs, the role of study and career guidance also needs to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The University of Applied Sciences has been involved in expanding both during the alliance period and in cooperation with the current government within the framework of the January Agreement. It is important education and training that meets the needs of the labour market and is based on the needs of companies and the labour market for skills. We need to ensure, not least in the light of the conversion agreement that now exists with better conditions to be able to retrain later in life, to enable both short and long courses of study within the university of applied sciences. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the situation that arose during this year with a new legal interpretation of VAT for hired trainers, which is a basis for the flexibility of training and the possibility of being close to the labour market. It is good that the government and the authority have been constructive in this and that there are now resources in the budget for VAT compensation. This is an issue that has been very important to the Center Party. Madam President, I would like Since I am the only one from the Center Party to take part in the debate today, I would like to conclude by also talking briefly about research and higher education. It is an exciting and white area that affects many areas, and I wanted to point out some parts that we see as important on the part of the Center Party. The draft budget that we presented included an effort at a national centre for women's peace and a knowledge mission to strengthen the work against men's violence against women. We also had suggestions to provide more long-term conditions for structured collaboration in higher education with investments in learning centres so that higher education of good quality can benefit more people. Strengthening the quality of higher education is the most important issue ahead in higher education in order to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and enable the business community to acquire the skills that are needed. It is also necessary for Sweden to continue to attract and retain highly educated skills. Therefore, I also think it is urgent for the government to act and move from words to actions in relation to what was pointed out in the research policy bill to enable more doctoral students to stay in Sweden due to the situation that has arisen linked to foreign doctoral students. We from the Center Party want to work for higher education institutions to become more autonomous and to be given additional opportunities to design their activities according to their conditions. We also want to strengthen academic freedom. Without independent research and education, we find it more difficult to identify, understand and solve societal problems. Academic freedom must be preserved and strengthened. Without it, we limit the quest for knowledge for future generations.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-102	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate Category 16 on the state budget for education and university research. In the basic proposal of the Left Party there were several major investments in the education system. Preschool should be a right and an opportunity for all children. That is why we felt that reforms were needed for pre-schools that would improve accessibility and quality. The Left Party therefore proposed an investment of SEK 2 billion to increase staff density, improve quality, increase opportunities for further training and reduce the group size in preschool and an additional SEK 500 million to the corresponding efforts in recreation centres. We proposed that the targeted state grant to teachers' assistants should be converted into more general support for staff reinforcement, in order to emphasise the need for more staff at school but for the principals themselves to determine and assess their needs. Madam President, I would like Investment in teaching materials has declined in recent years. To improve this situation in any case, we proposed a state grant for teaching material that would amount to SEK 550 per pupil in comprehensive school, at a total cost to the state of SEK 300 million. In order to make studies an opportunity for more people, we proposed an investment in course literature for adult students of SEK 300 million. The list can be made longer. Madam President, I would like Because of the budget management and what the entire population of Sweden could follow a few weeks ago, we will not participate in the decision either. The Left Party has made a special opinion in which we express our views. Madam President, I would like There are lower salaries, fewer qualified teachers, increased school segregation, reduced equality, political corruption of friendships and problems in finding school owners. Sweden is the only country in the world with this system. There are gains, less access to pupil health, fewer school libraries and lower salaries for qualified teachers. The list can be made long. All these things have one thing in common: Sweden and its free school system. We're the only country in the world that has this system. We are the only country in the world that allows this kind of legal corruption. We are the only country in the world that allows equality to be reduced in our schools and segregation to increase. The employment of unauthorized teachers is put into systems to save money and make profits. We are the world's only country where four individual groups can withdraw SEK 400 million in profits in two years. Then it is only the dividend and not all the profits that have been distributed to other companies within the same groups. We can't really see them. We don't have that possibility. This is partly because some parties do not want a principle of public access to Swedish schools. When I say certain parties, I mean the same parties that are behind the napkin sketch that is now the basis of the budget. Madam President, I would like One might wonder why a system may continue when it is criticised by research, teachers and other school staff as well as parents and when a large majority of all parties' voters are against it. At first, the answer may not be that simple. But when you start digging into it, it still won't be that hard to understand. Recently, in Stockholm, a number of school properties were sold from the City of Stockholm, which is governed by the bourgeoisie plus the Green Party, to a construction company owned by a former Social Democratic politician. The person who was an expert for the Moderates at the Government Office under Bildt, who was one of the authors of the draft free school reform, was later involved in the formation of the Free Schools Association and later became one of the founders of one of Sweden's largest school groups. A former center party member of Parliament who was responsible for, among other things, the Education Committee, as chairman, then became segment manager of one of Sweden's largest school groups. A former high-ranking environmental-partisan MP with responsibility for school issues, among other things, took office as CEO of one of these school groups. A former Social Democratic minister became a board member of school groups, had shares worth several million SEK and enriched himself on it. A former popular partyist and liberal who had high responsibilities in both the Riksdag and the party board were involved in founding one of these school groups. If there's something people are wondering back home about why the system doesn't change, they have part of the answer here. If it is something that costs, it is this kind of risk-taking, which these companies do not, but as we do with our children's future when we let school groups destroy the Swedish school system. Madam President, I would like It's kind of like Ebba Grön said all the time. Side by side, together they help the state and capital, they are in the same boat but it is not them that row, that row so that the sweat varnishes. On September 11, 2022, you who row in Swedish school so that the sweat coats choose a new path, a path beyond the interests of capital, a path beyond promises that some parties only come with when it approaches elections. It is a road beyond new public management, a road beyond the school system that unfortunately distinguishes itself from those in the rest of the world in a negative way. But then a new political direction must be adopted.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-122	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat talks here at the outset about his draft budget. Madam President, I would like Every fourth child in Swedish school can't pass the school. We have 45 000 trained teachers who have chosen not to work at school. Every other teacher, according to a report that came a few weeks ago, is subjected to physical violence by students. Seven out of ten teachers feel threatened by students. Thousands of children and families who have their children at resource schools in Sweden are constantly worried that the school will be closed because the school form has not yet been written into the law. Finally, Madam President, 16 038 students left grade nine this summer without a comprehensive school degree and the opportunity to attend upper secondary school. There were 16,038 students. Madam President, I would like I have to ask Daniel Riazat: Is this the fault of free schools? Is it really the free school reform that is responsible for so many children not being able to pass school, that it is so messy in school that half of the teachers have been beaten during school hours and that 45 000 teachers choose not to work in school? I have to ask Daniel Riazat and the Left Party: Is it the fault of free schools? It is true that Sweden's free school system is unique. Because we are the only country in the world that does not allow school fees but ensures that all schools are free of charge for all children. This applies regardless of whether you choose Montessori, Waldorf, English School or a municipal school. Madam President, I would like My question to Daniel Riazat is therefore: Is it the fault of the free schools that it looks like it does in Swedish school and that 16 038 students do not pass the school? Does Daniel Riazat and the Left Party want to charge fees again?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-128	Madam President, I would like Many of the tasks that Kristina Axén Olin presented here are true. I can start with the last question. Is it the free schools' fault that it looks like it does? No, it is the fault of Kristina Olin Axén and her party that it looks like it does. We have a system where groups can enter the Swedish school system and knock out the non-profit free schools, the small free schools in the countryside and the free schools run by foundations and by non-profit actors. That's what's happening today. We have a system that takes pupils from municipal schools, which causes enormous financial problems for the municipalities. We should remember that these free schools are not established because there is a need in these municipalities; this can be seen in the municipality by municipality. They are established because the legislation looks like it does. That's why we have to go to the root cause. Who are the reasons why it looks like it does? Of course, I can be pissed at these groups – and so am I – but basically it is their political representatives who sit in front of me here. It is, among other things, you in the blue-brown block that I have to address. We note that we have a situation in which, one by one, former political representatives enter these groups and, just as by chance, these school groups happen to be established everywhere. They happen to have students who do not need as much resources in school, so that it is possible to make more profits, and they invest money in new companies. I believe that this is the reason. We have an unsustainable system. As far as the teachers are concerned, we can also see that they began their journey away from school during the time when you were in the government, Kristina Axén Olin, so that is nothing new. Children who do not pass primary school are absolutely a major concern, but if you are to solve it, the market logic must also be removed.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-135	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat chooses not to answer my questions. Every fifth child in Sweden attends a free school. Daniel Riazat owes these families an answer. There are 240 000 families waiting in line for the English School. Is the Left Party's announcement that we are going to impose fees again, or are all free schools to be closed? Is every fifth child's school just going to disappear? Or what is the Left Party's solution when it comes to free school reform? I think that the Left Party is obliged to give the Swedish people an answer to the question: Does Daniel Riazat and the Left Party intend to impose fees again in Swedish school so that only those who can afford to pay can find another solution for the children? This applies, for example, to children attending resource schools, which are almost all free schools. Should they have fees again? Or, Madam President, what do the Left Party and Daniel Riazat think the solution is?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-138	Madam President, I would like It is extremely difficult to answer a question when the person who asked the question does not want to hear the answer. When it comes to the question of English School or Free Schools in general, the Left Party has a very clear policy: We are not against free schools. We are opposed to the market logic that prevails within the Swedish school system. Not only does it make free schools worse, but it also makes municipal schools worse. It makes the non-profit-making players worse and makes them less able to do so. That is what we are seeing today. It's funny that Kristina Axén Olin boasts of the English School, which is one of the schools where most students consider themselves insecure at school. They even consider themselves more insecure to staff than to other students. Perhaps that is nothing to boast about when it comes to safety at school, as Kristina Axén Olin mentioned.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-141	Madam President, I would like I noted that Daniel Riazat quoted Ebba Grön and the State and capital in his speech. There is another song by Ebba Grön that the Left Party might have to listen to. It's called Die Mauer. I read from the text: Halt! No one can pass through here. Nobody's coming through here. But with a K-piste, it's hard to discuss. If you go back in time there is a lot for the Left Party to look over. The party has for nearly 70 years been engaged in trampling on individual freedom in the country, and not only in Sweden but also in a wider international context. However, over the past 20 to 25 years, when the Left Party has nevertheless been a democratic party, it has devoted itself to systematically trying to distort the school debate to focus solely on the independent schools. Let me say, Madam President, that we have here to deal with a situation in which we think it is important for parents and students to have their choice. The Left Party does not think so, but I think it is a liberal. At the same time, we need a system of freedom of choice that is reasonable and is not the Wild West. In our party, for example, we have proposed a strengthened ownership test. We want to review the queue system for independent schools. We don't want secular schools and so on. But we are not prepared to go forward with a policy that would completely break the back of this system. The question that Daniel Riazat has to answer is why, in practice, he wants to force a large part of the 400 000 pupils who today have chosen a school back to exactly the schools that these students and their parents have chosen out. It's somewhere that's not reasonable. The Left Party says you're on the side of the small people. It is ordinary students and parents who have chosen these schools. Does the Left Party have no understanding of that?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-146	Madam President, I would like It is somewhere in 2021 liberalism to somehow review musicians based on what one thinks should be stopped or based on one's opinions. I do not know how much it goes with liberal values to do that. As regards secular schools, as Mr Malm mentioned, it is not even true that the Liberals want to stop these free schools. Liberals want to stop the start-up of free schools run on a confessional basis. If you didn't know, Fredrik Malm, you know it now. When it comes to the issue of the 400 000 pupils attending the independent schools, the Left Party has never ever said that they should be forced in elsewhere. On the other hand, we agree with the Liberals that we need a state-run school. If the Liberals are also in favour of it, you should understand that students attending schools run by the International English School today should also go to the state school that you run. Or what do you mean by a state school-- do you mean that they should only be called a state school and that there should still be banks in Luxembourg that own the schools? Is nationalization of the school something that you seriously propose? Forgive me if this sounds wrong, Madam President, but when it comes to the announcement of freedom of choice, it is nothing more than flossels. Freedom of choice today is not the children's. The current freedom of choice lies in Luxembourg. It's on the stock market. It is they who choose the children; it is not the children who choose them.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-150	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether it is correct for Daniel Riazat to accuse me of quoting Ebba Grön. After all, he himself started doing it, and I just countered it with another text. Madam President, I would like On the substance of the matter, however, we must be able to ask for some reasonableness in the debate. Sweden has 4,805 primary schools. Of these, 42 are run by the International English School, and more than 800 are run by various other independent actors. The rest are municipal schools. We introduced a system in the 1990s that allows students and parents to choose another school. I think it's pretty important. You still spend about twelve years in school, and then you should at least be able to have a little influence on where you want to spend those twelve years. Then, of course, we shall have reasonableness in the regulations.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-153	Madam President, I would like If I had also belonged to a party that has a lot of Members who have left politics to make money on our children's education, maybe I would have stood here and talked like Fredrik Malm does. But thank God I do not because I belong to one of the few parties that are not involved in this. The answer is very simple: lower salaries, more unauthorized teachers, less equality and more segregation. The answer is also problems in finding the owner of the school, reducing transparency and the world's only country with this system. In other words, it is a failed school system, and it will also be the last answer to Fredrik Malm's question. We're on the kids' side. We're on the students' side. We stand for their right to knowledge and education. In a market system, this is not possible, and we will therefore do everything we can to lower this system.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-156	Madam President, I would like You should really be a little surprised, but you don't get it when Daniel Riazat stands in the speaker's chair and once again begins with his solid class struggle rhetoric, which has come from past times. The interesting thing is that in the midst of this class struggle rhetoric, where attacks are being made against all private ownership, the friends of the Social Democrats sit and pat with delight. The rights that run out of ownership must be limited and ownership itself changed into common forms. That's what the Left Party Party Party program says. This is supercommunism – ownership is to move to common forms. It is no wonder that Daniel Riazat does not want independent schools run in the form of limited liability companies. In Daniel Riazats's world, there should be no companies operating in the form of limited liability companies. Everything should be owned together, and this is now where the Social Democrats are applauding and agreeing. There are no private companies in the world of Daniel Riazats. It is the state and the municipality that should own and operate everything. It is no wonder, then, that there is a distorted debate and a distorted starting point for the debate on independent schools. What Daniel Riazat here stands and says is an attack on everyone who chooses. It is not that schools choose which children are going there. It is an independent, free, individual choice of parents and students, and it is important that it happens. The question to Daniel Riazat is: Why doesn't Daniel Riazat say as it is, that he doesn't want to see any private elements in any sector of society? What Daniel Riazat wants is for the state and the municipality to manage everything, and therefore this also has consequences for school policy.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-161	Madam President, I would like Where to start? Here we have a member who first represented a party that ran errands for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and now belongs to another party, which runs errands for the National Associations of Free Schools. I can understand that it is sometimes difficult to understand what all parties think about different issues. There are thousands of pages to read. But maybe Patrick Reslow should do it better than he did with his receipts earlier in Parliament. This includes reading what the Left Party has actually written. What we have written is that we want to see better joint ownership – absolutely. We have written that independent schools should be able to exist but that they should not be run in a limited company form. We have written that we want to protect the free schools that are run in non-profit organization and company forms. This, I mean, is nothing strange at all. This is something that the majority of the population agree with. Patrick Reslow is the representative of a party that went to elections to stop profits in welfare. Remember that, Patrick Reslow! You will never be able to tell the voters that this was not the case. You went to elections to take away the profits in welfare. Then, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats changed their minds on this issue after a few dinners with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and some other interest groups. Pretending like something else just gets weird because that story is already out there. What Patrick Reslow is doing here today, Madam President, is representing capital interests that have nothing to do in the school world. It is not the rural schools that the Swedish Democrats protect. It's not the non-profit schools and the parent cooperatives. Those who are here defended by the Swedish Democrats are the biggest players. It's Academedia. It's the International English School. It's Barbara Bergström.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-166	I would like to remind Members of the tone of the debate and the subject of the debate.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-167	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are on the side of parents and students, Daniel Riazat. What we are defending in this debate is the right of parents and students to choose their school. It is the right of parents and students to choose, in front of the interests of politicians and officials, which schooling is best for them. Daniel Riazat can stand and talk about other things and try to pretend it's not, but that's what it's all about. Daniel Riazat stands up because it is the state and the municipality that will decide fully. Parents and students should have no say. We Swedish democrats are on the side of parents and students. Attack is also always the best defense. When one lacks arguments for one's cause, and now that the real meaning of Daniel Riazats's speech is revealed, there are, as usual, indisputables and reproaches that are not rooted in any reality. I think it's obscene, Daniel Riazat.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-170	Madam President, I would like I am not taking advice from the Swedish Democrats, and I will therefore ignore what Patrick Reslow considers to be indecent or not. On this issue, however, I would like to be very clear. I am a left-wing party, and I have nothing to hide when it comes to the issue of marketing school. The Left Party is actively working to abolish that system, on which most political parties in this Parliament depend – for various reasons. We will not allow children to continue to be sold on the stock exchange, as they are today. We will not allow it to be too many unauthorized teachers at school, to have lower and lower salaries, to reduce equality and to increase segregation. This is the policy represented by the blue-brown and Patrick Reslow. I can proudly say that the Left Party absolutely believes that profits must be banned and that limited companies should not be able to carry out school activities. Children are not commodities, but they have the right to education and knowledge.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-173	Madam President, I would like We have two speakers from the Liberals here today. It is I, on the one hand, and my colleague Maria Nilsson, who will address in her speech what concerns higher education – research, universities and other things. I would also like to join in what several speakers have mentioned and wish both our eminent President, Gunilla Svantorp, and our very competent office on the Committee on Education and Training, a Merry Christmas. Gunilla has given some Christmas atmosphere over the committee with her warmth, which is very positive. I have only served on the Education Committee for a few months and see in front of me that we will have many debates in the future. This is my first major educational policy debate in Parliament for many years. We in the Liberals have a budget motion, of course, which anyone who looks at this can google forward to read more in detail about our proposals and how we allocate resources to the state budget in these. We also have a special opinion in the report that we now have to debate, because our budget did not win the majority when voting in Parliament. I would also like to start by thanking Sweden's high school students for the enormous responsibility they have assumed during the pandemic that has now plagued not only Sweden but the whole world for several years. It is a huge social and educational political experiment they have had as a result of the pandemic. I think many people in Sweden don't really understand how tough it has been for high school students in Sweden. Many of those who took the student in the spring have thus in practice studied at a distance half of their upper secondary school time. Sweden's Student Unions have produced reports and surveys that are actually quite terrible reading. Students there testify to home-sitting and how they have developed social phobia, social ill-health and so on. This, of course, has very large and serious consequences not only for mental illness but also, of course, for school results. Now we're heading into a new wave in the pandemic. We see how our neighbouring countries are imposing extensive restrictions. What we saw when the wave came last spring, 2020, was that high school students were basically the ones who were sent home first and came back last. We must, of course, try to keep our schools open as far as possible, but of course we do not know how the pandemic and the new mutations will beat. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to say that one of the biggest problems for Swedish school systems, and one of the biggest challenges we now face, is the equivalence of Swedish schools. By equivalence, we liberals do not really mean the same thing as socialists do – that it is a matter of uniformity – but we believe that everyone must have the opportunity to reach their full potential. It is partly about raising the floor for those who have not really succeeded yet, and partly about being able to break the roof of the students who have been held back. There is a fairly large group in Swedish school that performs very well and that would need more challenges from their school. This, of course, requires a level playing field. Madam President, I would like What we are now seeing in Sweden – and this has run for quite a long time – is that school money varies very widely between different municipalities. In some schools, as I mentioned in a previous replica, there are barely physical teaching materials. The socio-economic redistribution differs greatly between municipalities, and assessments of specific aid are also made. The results of knowledge in Sweden differ greatly between large cities and sparsely populated areas, as was recently shown in a report from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The main reason for this lack of equivalence in Swedish schools and these major differences is the municipalisation of Swedish schools that took place in autumn 1989. It has been an accident for the Swedish education system. It has contributed to a decline in knowledge and reduced the status of the teaching profession. It shows every day how many municipalities have failed in school, which must nevertheless be one of the real core tasks of the public. We need to get a government headship for the school once again, but unfortunately several parties stand in the way of this. They are – to put it plainly, Madam President – more loyal to their councillors, who have failed, than to the students and teachers who have been betrayed in this system. On the Liberal side, we have a series of proposals on how equivalence can be strengthened now, pending a nationalisation. The suburban lift, as we have proposed, contains numerous proposals to lift the affected areas. We also propose a national school grant and, pending this, at least a national standard for school money. Furthermore, we want to see focus on teacher qualifications, strengthened language teaching, summer school, budget initiatives on physical textbooks, stronger efforts against grade inflation and much more. These reforms are indeed urgent. In fact, the lack of equivalence in the Swedish school today is so great that the Teachers' Association announced a few weeks ago that they can no longer award the Best School Municipality award. Their chairman writes in Expressen:.So many municipalities suffer so greatly that differences in school quality have become unacceptable. A ranking no longer serves a positive purpose. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like When you look at the big problems with study and order in Swedish school, it is surprising that there is so little and that you see such a weak commitment, especially from the left side, to strengthen the study and order in Swedish school. Who beats it hardest if there is chaos in the corridors of school, with bullying and very coarse language, if students come and go as they please, if they don't listen to the teachers and so on? Well, it hits the hardest on those students who have the toughest in school, who don't have Vilhelm Moberg and Selma Lagerlöf who crowd each other in the bookshelf at home and who don't have parents who put them in another school or who can afford to pay for extra education. It is those who are most vulnerable and who have the most difficult to suffer the most if the school fails. When the Liberals were in charge of school policy for eight years in the alliance government, there were numerous reforms for Swedish schools. We got a new school team, new curricula, new curricula, more national exams, written reviews and grades from year 6. The right to special support was strengthened, special teacher training was re-established and efforts were made on math lift and reading lift as well as on more teaching for newly arrived students. It introduced a first teacher system and lecturers, with government-funded large raise. It introduced teacher identification, strengthened eligibility rules and new teacher training courses with clear orientations. The headmaster training was made compulsory. The University of Applied Sciences was established. Teachers and principals were given increased powers. The requirements for access to pupil health became clearer. It was also possible to extend compulsory schooling for newly arrived students. Then, Madam President, practically nothing happened. After the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats and the Green Party took over, and the fact is that the only thing I remember of the first years of red-green government ownership after 2014 in the school area is Gustav Fridolin's hand heart. It is very strange that the pace of reform has been extremely weak, Madam President. However, it should be said, in the government's plus account, that some relevant proposals have been made recently. However, all these proposals have been things that the Liberals have demanded to be implemented within the framework of our budgetary cooperation. These have been proposals for mobile bans on schools and an investigation into state schools, as well as proposals to make it easier to shut down pupils who disturb and to make it easier to close schools with major shortcomings. The truth is, Madam President, that the only reforms of importance in the field of education in Sweden in recent years are those carried out by the Social Democrats and the Green Party because the Liberals have forced them to implement them. All their own proposals seem to have locked in some safe in the Government Office, probably by the brand Franz Jäger, which makes it extremely difficult to pick up that cabinet and find the proposals. We don't even know what's hiding in this cabinet in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to have oversold my speaking time by a few minutes, so it could be this Christmas night.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-195	Madam President, I would like To show in some way that we can also agree, let me begin by saying what we agree on. We agree that almost everything that the Social Democrats and the government have put forward in the field of education in recent years has come from the Liberals. Here, however, I must go back to the negative and tell you, Fredrik Malm, that this is nothing to be proud of. Proud of things that no one in the school world has asked for, such as mobile bans and the like, perhaps a party of 1.8% can stand and brag about from the speaker's seat, but I would advise you not to do so. My first question is why the Liberals pretend that they have had absolutely no responsibility at national level for school politics and what is happening in Swedish schools. My second question is why they pretend that they are not in charge of the majority of Sweden's municipalities. The liberals are now in charge of many of Sweden's municipalities. In the majority of these municipalities there are major cuts. When the Liberals sat in the government, which Fredrik Malm stands here bragging about, they basically got the whole school world against themselves because of the reforms that were carried out. Today, the majority of Liberal voters are also opposed, for example, to profit withdrawals at school and the market school. The question is simply: who is it that Fredrik Malm actually represents here? And why does he abdicate his and Liberals' responsibility for the majority of Sweden's school laws in the last 30 – 40 years? It is the Liberals who are responsible for, among other things, that students do not go out with complete grades. It is the Liberals who are responsible for giving priority to non-issues over systemic issues. We also want to see school nationalisation, Madam President, but it is not serious to call it nationalisation when you want to keep Academedia and the International English School.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-203	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat said that we in the Liberals take no responsibility. I messed up a number of different reforms that we have carried out. Then Daniel Riazat told us that we had everyone against us. But why has the government not torn up one of these proposals if they were so bad? The Sossians have had seven years to tear up all the proposals we made, but they have not torn them up. The truth is that these proposals are good and quite important. This is recognised more broadly in the political landscape, although rhetoric may sound a little different. Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat then specifically mentions the issue of mobile phones in school. Let me dwell on that a little bit. Two months ago there was a big story in Swedish Radio. They had sent out a survey to several thousand school leaders in Sweden and asked if they felt that mobile phones could be a problem in school when it comes to teachers' work environment and when it comes to bullying, abuse and harassment between students. The answers were hideous. Hundreds of principals – I think it was 800 or something – replied that it creates major problems for school teachers. Swedish Radio then interviewed a number of teachers, and they described how they are also forced to go in and deal with conflicts between students as a result of what students write to or about each other at Snapchat and Instagram. Even down in the ages of ten and eleven, we see an increased frequency of bullying, harassment and so on as a result of mobile use. It cannot be reasonable for it to occur in school. You're there to be taught. I am surprised that the Left Party is so lax about this.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-209	Madam President, I would like Mobile ban was just one example I mentioned. Since there has been an opportunity for school leaders to ban mobile phones in school, it is strange to let their full answer be about that question. My real question, which Fredrik Malm refused to answer, was about the negative things that have happened in the Swedish school and whether the party that over the past 40 years has had by far the most influence over Swedish school politics has no responsibility whatsoever. Don't the Liberals, the former People's Party, have a responsibility? You've been involved in developing the curriculum. You've been involved in developing the school laws. You have been in charge of the Ministry of Education in Sweden for a large number of years, and you are in charge of the majority of Sweden's municipalities. Where does responsibility for the negative parts disappear? And why do the Liberals run errands for the large school groups instead of for the children?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-213	Madam President, I would like The truth is that the reforms that have been carried out to improve the performance of knowledge and to strengthen studies in schools have not gone far enough. So you give a school leader the opportunity to put up a box and say: Here you put the mobile phones. But there is a need for clearer legal support. It is also demanded by many parents, by many pupils, by many school leaders and by teachers. There are other countries that have a much tougher line on these issues. The same applies to the school's compensatory mission. My picture is very clear in this area. I believe that the school needs to be significantly more compensatory for, for example, those students who are new arrivals and have a great need for extra teaching. Unfortunately, as a result of the municipalisation, many municipalities are not today. So there is a great deal more to be done. But I have noted that the Left Party is not a partner in that work.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-216	Madam President, I would like I had no intention of taking a line, but I was rather annoyed by Fredrik Malm's speech. It is strange that, as Daniel Riazat has just said, no responsibility whatsoever is taken for the possibility of influence we have had, not least during the eight years that we have been involved in Fredrik Reinfeldt's government and then during the time we had the January agreement together. There the Liberals have had a great influence and have sometimes also slowed down the pace because you have wanted to think a little longer about different things. There's a lot of things coming through. Fredrik Malm knows that. Many things that we have been discussing for years are on the way, not least when it comes to security and study. I was a little perplexed at what Fredrik Malm said about equivalence and rather angry about the fact that the Social Democrats were being told that for us it would be about uniformity. It certainly does not. It is about all children, regardless of what they have with them from home, having the same opportunities in life. Madam President, I would like Over the years, our two parties have had the same attitude in many respects in terms of equivalence and the compensatory mission. I would now like to ask Fredrik Malm if that has changed. Does the Liberals no longer believe that equivalence is important because they do not want to do anything about the system error? At all, several of the parties in this House do not want to do anything about the system error that creates inequality. What do the Liberals really want to do about the disparateness that we see today, more than blame the Social Democrats?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-220	Madam President, I would like There was a battery of questions, or we could call it a jump, from Gunilla Svantorp. It is mentioned that the Liberals do not want to take responsibility for what has been done under the January agreement. I take full responsibility for setting up an investigation into nationalizing the school. I take full responsibility for going further when it comes to stopping mobile phones in school. I take full responsibility for making it easier to turn off students who interfere with teaching. I take full responsibility for it and do not want to run away from it. In fact, I am very pleased to have managed to get those things out. I believe that parties to the right of the Liberals could also launch this kind of reform work. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is a bit meagre to say that the Liberals, who left the Ministry of Education in 2014, are responsible for the problems we have now. It is a little surprising that after almost two terms of office in power, the Social Democrats take no responsibility whatsoever for falling school outcomes and lack of teacher competence. Only this morning there was information from the Swedish National Agency for Education that in 2035 there will be a shortage of 12 000 teachers and preschool teachers in Sweden. Liberals do not want socio-economic redistribution and equivalence," says Gunilla Svantorp. But the truth is that there is a municipality in Sweden that stands out when it comes to that; the city of Stockholm is the municipality that, I think, invests most in the country on socio-economic redistribution. The affected areas have almost twice as high a school grant. It happens to be the Alliance and the Environmental Party that decides in Stockholm, and the Social Democrats have been in opposition for two terms of office.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-223	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm says that the Liberals take full responsibility, and he lists what they have wanted and got through in the January agreement. What divides us is that the Social Democrats, which are a party of state, take responsibility for the whole. As a matter of fact, we do. What we have been sitting around the same table and agreed on, we also take responsibility for, although of course we do not like everything. There's a big difference. I would like to conclude by asking an important question. It's about trust in the school staff, the people who work in the classroom every day and make a difference every day. In my speech, I spoke about the school manager Per i Forshaga and the vice-chancellor Monzer in Gothenburg. They feel they have faith. They are not called into question even if they step outside the frame. Do the Liberals really trust the school staff? Or do you want to be in and poking all the time?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-226	Madam President, I would like I don't quite understand the last part. We want qualified and skilled teachers, and we want teachers to be given greater powers and be able to be stronger authorities in school. We know that it is necessary to develop the school. We want to give teachers greater opportunities. This is what the Social Democrats and other parties have found difficult. For decades, the Liberals and the Old People's Party have been accused of being mean, harsh and authoritarian and have said that it would be stigmatising to give teachers and school leaders just such powers. So I don't understand it. Madam President, I would like When it comes to taking responsibility for the January agreement, it is clear that we are taking responsibility for all the points on which we stress, including the defence tax, to stop arms exports to Yemen and to have a 1% target in aid. But this debate is about the school.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-228	Madam President, I would like The other day, TV4 showed a survey they've been having. All convictions and prosecutions were reviewed in the last six months for crimes that are often committed in gang environments - murder, attempted murder, serious weapons and narcotics crimes. Then the perpetrators under the age of 24 were selected and tried to find a common denominator. Madam President, I would like These people have a deeply worrying common denominator, and that is that 80% of them have not passed primary school. A couple of days earlier, Dagens Nyheter made an even bigger search, where they got to the bottom of everyone who has been arrested, prosecuted or convicted of firearms offences since 2017. Do the President and the rest of you know what the DN's survey found to be the common denominator for all those who have been prosecuted and convicted since 2017? A majority has not passed primary school. Madam President, I would like It's been a sad seven years. The Social Democrats have not produced any concrete proposals to ensure that more young people pass school. In June there were 16,038 pupils who were at school graduation in comprehensive school and did not receive a comprehensive school degree. I'm going on about these students, Madam President. For these students, the future is dark, and we all know what future they are risking. It is not a future that we Moderates accept and want our children and young people to end up in. So there were 16,038 students without a comprehensive school degree, without eligibility to go to upper secondary school. There is no labour market today if you do not even have a comprehensive school degree, so of all the goals we have for school, whatever we are discussing, there is absolutely nothing more important than ensuring that all children and young people pass the school. In addition, there is now an alarm report after an alarm report about things we have talked about earlier today in the morning. According to the National Agency for Education, 40,000 pupils have more than 5 percent invalid absence this year. Half of the teachers have been subjected to physical violence by students. Seven out of ten teachers have been threatened by students. And 75 percent of teachers say they don't have enough teaching material on at least one subject. We can list the area by area and see that the curves are going in the wrong direction. And what is perhaps even more alarming according to the Pisa survey that Sweden participated in is that we are the worst in the world when it comes to the differences between Swedish-born and foreign-born students, even though we excluded too many. Madam President, I would like Swedish school is in need of a series of reforms. In this budget, however, we have not had the opportunity to make the full proposals on school and education, but we hope that after the next elections we will have the confidence of the voters and of all the parents of schoolchildren. Then we will have to come back with all the suggestions to reverse the trends in Swedish school and make sure that all children pass the school. The school needs much more focus on knowledge. All children should be met with high expectations, and they should be able to reach their highest potential. Both teachers and students should of course meet with security and studyo. However, some important decisions are included in the budget reservation that won, Madam President. One proposal is that we need more hours. Swedish school has a whole year fewer hours than the average in Europe when it comes to primary school. Compared to Denmark, we have the equivalent of one and a half years fewer lessons during our primary school than they have during their nine-year primary school. In this draft budget, we decide that we should fill Swedish school with one hour more a day from primary school. Another necessary and urgent measure is that we must ensure that the School Inspectorate can review all schools and ensure that they are of high quality. There should be no bad schools in Sweden. We should not have to read in the newspaper or get information from Säpo about the deviations in Swedish school, but of course the Swedish School Inspectorate will be able to review all schools, make unannounced visits and make sure that our schools are nice. With this, Madam President, I would like to call for approval of the proposals for the budget of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-240	Madam President, I would like I do not really buy this socio-economic thing, that it would in some way be a factor that makes it impossible because it is not true. Where does this quote come from? It comes from Kristina Axén Olin, who says that socio-economic conditions do not in any way contribute to the progress of children in Swedish school. However, the research is very clear. The educational level, class membership and residential area of mothers are factors that determine how children in Swedish schools are doing today, and since we live in a class society, it is becoming increasingly important for every day that passes. Yet the highest school authority in Moderates says that she is not really buying this socio-economic thing, that it would in some way be a factor that makes it impossible because it is not true. Madam President, I would like In which world do the Moderates have more competence in these matters than what Sweden's school researchers have? How can Kristina Axén Olin speak in this way?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-245	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the worst performance in the world in terms of differences between foreign-born pupils and Swedish-born pupils. The Social Democrats have been in charge for seven years, and the newly resigned Minister for Education has been one of the most powerful for more than ten years, as was the case with the Swedish National Agency for Education. We have the worst results in the world. Does Daniel Riazat not think that the Social Democrats and the Left should consider what reforms have been made? Why does Swedish school stand out so lavishly in the world regarding the differences between foreign-born and Swedish-born students? Madam President, I would like Yesterday I visited Husbygårdsskolan, a fantastic school that has managed to reverse the results. All teachers and principals there say that the single most important thing they have done to reverse the results in Husbygårdsskolan is that they now meet the students with high expectations. All students should meet with high expectations and reach their highest potential. Several schools in Järvafältet have finally begun to reverse the results and make sure that more and more people are qualified. I'm sure Daniel Riazat knows that, because his sister is the principal of a free school in the Järva field.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-249	Madam President, I would like One second I'm accused of being a communist and not wanting a business, and the next second I'm referred to as having a sister who owns a free school. It's very strange. Madam President, I would like Now I'm not a Social Democrat. The honourable Member is allowed to express his criticism directly to the Social Democrats, but I can say that I have such a lot of control that I know that Swedish schools do not have the worst results in the world. It is strange that a spokesperson for Sweden's second largest party speaks in this way. Husbygårdsskolan is by the way next to my apartment, so I know how it is at that school. But my question was not about this. Why doesn't Kristina Axén Olin, like all researchers and people in the profession, believe that socio-economic conditions are crucial for how children in Swedish schools are doing? We must therefore go to the heart of the problems, namely the economic and social transformation of our society.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-253	Madam President, I would like We Moderates think that all children are equally important and that all children should pass school. It doesn't matter if you need a resource school – a free school reform that the government has refused to write into the law – if you come from a socio-economically vulnerable area, if you have problems at home or where you live in Sweden. All children should be met with high expectations and receive the help and support they need to get through school. It's Moderate Sweden.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-254	Madam President, I would like All children are equally important, says Kristina Axén Olin. Yeah, I think we're a lot of people. I still want to spin on what Daniel Riazat said. That is why I asked to speak. I was very thoughtful and upset when I saw the feature where Kristina Axén Olin waved away the factor socio-economic background. Research report after the research report shows that the socio-economic factors are what we really need to start from, not least when we finance our Swedish school. Kristina Axén Olin's introduction about those students who fail and risk getting into gang crime is something that occupies many people's thoughts – mine too. That is why we are really trying to make more of an effort on those who need the most, for example with the equivalence premium that we have introduced. What does Kristina Axén Olin think about the equivalence grant? Does she see that it has produced results for the children for whom she is so eager in her speeches? Kristina Axén Olin and her colleagues want more school hours in their amendment. Does Kristina Axén Olin not see that there is a risk that it will increase inequality when we know that the qualified teachers do not always exist in the schools where the greatest needs are? How does Kristina Axén Olin think about this?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-259	Madam President, I would like There is a lot of research about what children need in school and what works for good pedagogy. Unfortunately, it is interesting that in the field of education, it does not seem that research is particularly important. They often say that there is no research, but there is a lot of research that shows how children learn best in school. Clearly, children need peace and quiet in school. They need good teachers, and they need to be met with high expectations. Madam President, I would like When you visit schools in areas where the grades are low, you often meet teachers and principals who today say that they have done wrong. They have not met children in vulnerable areas with high expectations, but have assumed that it is impossible. Madam President, I would like Therefore, it is so incredibly important not to look at what is called a socio-economic background or lower expectations of children coming from another country. All children should be met with equal expectations and be able to reach their highest potential. We must allow children to succeed in Sweden regardless of their background. It is not only I who claim that Sweden has the worst performance in the world in terms of the difference between native and foreign born children, but the OECD shows in the final report after Pisa – although for many had been excluded – that Sweden had the worst performance in the world. That's not how we Moderates want it to be. All children should be able to meet high expectations and reach their highest potential in Swedish schools, not be knocked out as happens in the School of Social Democrats.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-264	Madam President, I would like Visits and dialogues – which Kristina Axén Olin talks about in her speech – draw new lessons. It's exciting, and it's one of our main missions. But when you read the Moderate Budget Movement, you can see that it says that the Moderates want to remove the government's commitment to quality dialogues with the school's principals. I'm curious why the Moderates want it. It is precisely about sitting at the same table and discussing the challenges, which Kristina Axén Olin constantly highlights. Why don't the Moderates want it to happen? Kristina Axén Olin asked me in her reply to my speech about the Social Democrats' intention of obstrusing about the school elections. I would just like to remind Kristina Axén Olin that, in the current budget, the government is proposing SEK 70 million for a changed selection and a common selection system for 2022. The current parties have not changed that.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-267	Madam President, I would like It is good that Gunilla Svantorp again asks questions about the school elections because Gunilla Svantorp obviously has not read the text. Although from the parties whose budget has been passed, we still have the money for the Swedish National Agency for Education, we have written that you should not change the school election system and remove it from the municipalities or come up with any new criteria. It is in the text of the section of the budget dealing with the Swedish National Agency for Education. Then Gunilla Svantorp raises a whole new question that we have not talked about here at all, and I will not be able to answer that. But what I can try to answer is the question of the equivalence premium, which I find interesting. There have already been billions, and the Social Democrats' budget increases it by even more billions. However, there has been no evaluation of the contribution. Has this led to increased results? Has this led to improved results for the students? It would be good, Madam President, to assess whether or not contributions involving billions are working.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-269	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to support the proposal in the report. In nine months the Swedes will go to the polls to determine the country's future. One of the most important issues in that election is school. A good and high-quality level of education is important for our country if we are to compete in the rapid development that characterises our time. Knowledge and education go hand in hand with development and economic growth. But Swedish school policy does not really follow developments. Almost daily we are reminded that there are major problems to address if Sweden in the future is to be a successful knowledge nation. There's trouble and trouble in classrooms. There are threats, violence and bullying in schools. It is declining status for the teaching profession. It is negative knowledge development over time. Schools are run by Islamists who send money to Islamic organisations abroad. There is deliberate cheating in international measurements of knowledge to conceal the real problems. All of this is that Sweden is governed by the Social Democrats and the party which now only talks about knowledge instead of giving real conditions for it. In September 2022, it is important for school policy to have a change of course. That is also the basis of the common budget presented today by the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. The foundation for successful schooling is laid already in pre-school age. A safe and inspiring environment stimulates the desire to learn, and it also arouses curiosity in children. Free play, free from politically correct gender pedagogy and norm criticism should be at the centre. Children should be allowed to be children, even if they are to be gradually prepared for future schooling. It is also an important task to address the extremely high workload, under-staffing and the increasing ill-health rates among preschool staff. Together with M and KD, we have therefore proposed further reinforcements of the pre-school funding. In primary school there is another reality. We have been talking about parts of it during the debate. Insecureness in primary school is spreading. According to the School Inspectorate's school survey for 2010 – 2020, one in five students in grade 9 stated that they felt insecure in school by 2020. The change has gone in the negative direction. In grade 9, the share of safe pupils has decreased by over 10 percentage points between 2010 and 2020. The survey also shows that one in three primary school teachers says that a large part of the teaching time goes to maintaining order in the classroom by 2020, towards one in four in 2012. It's not a good trend. The teachers have also completely lost their authority. One third of primary school teachers see threats and violence as a major problem, and nearly one fifth of secondary school teachers have considered quitting because of threats and violence from pupils and parents. A study by the National Association of Teachers testifies to a very pressured working environment for many teachers, not least in primary school. 75 per cent said that their workload was too high, and over 80 per cent thought their work was psychologically stressful. One out of every four teachers says that they feel at least one day a week that they are at the breaking point of what they can do, and almost one out of every five reports that they feel so at least several times a week. So we do not only have problems recruiting teachers for school; we also have problems with keeping educated teachers in schools. Equally bad is the development of knowledge at school. The government insists in almost every debate that students' skills have improved since 2012. But then we'll remember that Pisa results 2012 was an all-time low. Instead, if we study the development of knowledge over longer periods and go back to 2000 or into the 1990s, we can see that the results are worse today than they were then – not least in 2000, when Swedish 15-year-olds performed significantly better than the OECD average in all subject areas. In the spring of 2021, 116,000 pupils left comprehensive school, and about one in four students had no complete grades – 25 per cent of the pupils. Over time, there is also a higher proportion of students who have no grades in nuclear material today compared to 25 years ago. It is therefore a negative trend over time. This, together with what I mentioned earlier, should lead to a policy that focuses entirely on creating better conditions for learning and increasing knowledge outcomes. But that is not the case. The school debate is about something completely different. Instead of dealing with the problems that characterise Swedish schools and that seriously hinder the development of knowledge, the Social Democrats are more interested in engaging in socialist propaganda. The attack is not being made against those schools that are in trouble, but against well-functioning schools that deliver results. Instead of speaking plainly and saying quite clearly that they want to ban independent schools, they wrap it up in arguments about school money and profit bans. The effect will be the same. Most independent schools will be closed down. Independent schools impoverish the municipal school, says this propaganda. But that only 19 percent of the students attend an independent school, usually a small one, is rarely said about. Nor is it mentioned that in municipalities but independent schools it is difficult for municipal schools to get the economy around – or that most independent schools have very small margins, if any. These are of course very well aware of by the Social Democrats. But to conceal the shortcomings of one's own school policy, it is so easy to use horror propaganda to stir up public opinion. The Social Democrats are also increasingly making use of this expression, which means taking back control of welfare. Feel it! Take back control of welfare. In any case, for me, this is something that gives a sense of the debates of the 1970s and 1980s on employee funds, when the plan was once and for all to totally socialise society. And yes, it is the same kind of socialism that is now meant. Taking control back means nothing more than transferring power from students and parents to politicians and bureaucrats. It is politicians and officials who according to the Social Democracy are to decide the school elections, not parents and students. Socialist thinking knows no bounds at all either. Children are to be drawn into schools and classes. Quotas shall be applied and pupils shall be bused to schools located in other areas instead of to the school closest to home. This is the consequence of the socialist school elections: when students are to be placed in different schools, students from the surrounding area must also be placed in other schools further away. It's social engineering when it's at its worst. For us Swedish democrats, freedom of choice is important. It is pupils and parents who will choose school, no one else. This does not mean that we do not impose requirements on independent actors – or municipal ones, for that matter. However, criticism must be directed at those schools that are not doing well, schools where the teaching is poor and the results are not good, and not at popular schools where teachers and pupils thrive, schools that work and deliver results. That is precisely why we need to tighten up the mission of the School Inspectorate and clarify and strengthen it. We have chosen to increase the funding for the Swedish School Inspectorate in our common budget. It is time that the debate on school policy was more about content than about forms of operation. What makes some schools more successful than others? Why do schools in socio-economically very weak areas also manage to reverse the results when special efforts are made in the form of reinforcements of leadership or the teaching profession? Why do some schools succeed so well in fighting truancy, increasing attendance and maintaining order and order in the classrooms? This is where the Social Democratic policy has failed completely, and it is not better to talk about other things than the real problems. On the contrary, it is the leadership of the school, the authority of the teacher, the high expectations of the students, the ability to adapt the teaching even for pupils who are special, the fight against truancy and the maintenance of order and order in the classrooms that are the basis for a successful school. This is what the school debate must be about. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats now have a common budget for the expenditure area. It includes changes in a number of areas of funding. But above all, it sets out guidelines for a new school policy focused on knowledge and order and safeguarding pluralism and freedom of choice. It's a good sales declaration for the election next year.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-296	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want a school where no one is held back and no one is left behind. It is easier said than done, and it requires that each student be seen as the individual it is and given the opportunity to develop according to his/her ability – even the special student who needs extra stimulus in order not to lose motivation and the student who needs special support to meet the school's knowledge requirements at all. This situation and the problem have been made more difficult by the pandemic we have been through. The results we see at school today are not satisfactory. Which of us can accept that a quarter of all comprehensive school graduates have no complete grades? Or that 17 percent of the students who graduate from comprehensive school have no approved grades in nuclear material and cannot apply to upper secondary school? I have a history as a regional politician and have worked a lot on public health issues. In such cases, there is much talk about health factors and protective factors, i.e. those that reduce the risk of various forms of ill health. Research shows that completed comprehensive school studies with approved grades are the strongest protection factor against various forms of exclusion – not only unemployment but also long-term illness, economic and social vulnerability and crime. This in itself gives every reason in the world to devote great resources to each student being able to cope with the school, not by lowering the requirements, but by putting in the resources that the student needs to meet the student's knowledge requirements. In recent years we Christian Democrats have repeatedly highlighted the fact that Swedish students have fewer hours of teaching than the OECD average. Moreover, in spite of all the knowledge that it is precisely teacher-led teaching by an experienced, skilled educator, the most important prerequisite for the student's learning, the number of hours of teaching is not contemptible. In addition, it is important that the foundation is laid early. That is why Parliament's decision the other week to adopt the budget reservation that the Christian Democrats initially worked out together with the Moderates is so important. It now lays the foundations for gradually increasing the number of teaching hours starting in primary school. This gives the children completely new conditions. Similarly, the increased state subsidy to reduce the size of children's groups in preschool is extremely important. A preschool with too many children per adult does not create the peace, security and educational environment that the child needs to develop according to his or her ability. If there are too many different adults who alternate in the groups with the smallest children, it can affect the connection and thus adversely affect the child's development. It is on a scientifically based basis that the Swedish National Agency for Education has developed the guidelines for how many children the most should be in groups in preschool. Nevertheless, group sizes are in many cases well above the guide values. The increased state contribution that the KD-M-SD budget now provides helps municipalities to start work on reducing children's groups. I can add, moreover, that the Christian Democrats want to legislate on a maximum ceiling of twelve children in the groups of young children, in order to give even more weight to the benchmark. Madam President, I would like Swedish school must be of good and equal quality, regardless of who runs the school. Every child should receive the support it needs to succeed, regardless of which school you go to and the parents' educational background. Today is not the case. There are schools where half of the pupils do not pass comprehensive school with a passing grade. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. The School Inspectorate is the authority that checks that schools comply with the School Act and carry out their mission. For schools facing major challenges, more frequent follow-up is needed and the possibility of unannounced checks is also needed to follow up on the actual compliance with established action plans and their intended impact and the school being on the right track. More resources are needed for the Swedish School Inspectorate, and this is given as we have now added more money to the Swedish School Inspectorate in KD-M-SD. It is therefore an investment in a more equal school. At the end of my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to refute something that has passed in the past in the debate and would therefore like to quote a few lines in the KD-M-SD reservation, which won the parliamentary majority the other week: The education in Sweden must be of high quality and accessible to everyone. Parents should know that when their children come home from school, they have learned something new in a safe environment. A school with high ambitions for everyone is also the prerequisite for Sweden as a knowledge nation. Sweden should have an equal school that focuses on knowledge, prioritises order and order and puts the individual student's results and efforts at the centre. The school should be characterised by high expectations and clear requirements. Each student should be given the right conditions to reach the knowledge goals. Everyone should be able to feel safe and be part of a community in the classroom, in the school yard and in the corridors. ..................................................... I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-310	Madam President, I would like As everyone knows, it is the joint framework budget of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats that was decided by the Riksdag with the passive support of the Center Party and the Liberals. In the field of research, the parties have made no changes compared to the government's proposal, and it is quite entertaining to read the respective budget about research resources. It is understandable that the three right-wing parties have not been able to agree. Raise the grant to the Swedish Research Council, says the Moderates. Lower the grant to the Swedish Research Council, proposes the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. Increase the funding for space research, according to the Swedish Democrats. Lower it – space research is not so important, says Christian Democrats. The Liberals and the Center Party, on the other hand, reduce all appropriations compared to the government's proposal. Our higher education institutions and Swedish research will be more effective, get strengthened quality and achieve world class through reduced funding, is the logic of the parties. But the Left Party believes that we do not get more and better research and education through cuts – quite the opposite. Madam President, I would like As has been said, the Left Party is not proposing a reduction in funding in the field of higher education. We are putting forward several proposals for increases. In our budget exercise, we proposed doubling the grant to the Swedish Research Council to finance research and development of alternative methods for animal experiments. The Swedish Board of Agriculture operates a 3R centre. 3R stands for replace, i.e. replace, reduce, i.e. limit, and refine, i.e. refine, and means that animal experiments should be replaced or limited. The role of the 3R centre is, among other things, to be a gathering arena for knowledge and cooperation on 3R issues both in Sweden and within the EU. The Centre helps to disseminate knowledge about how to research without animal testing and minimise animal suffering. But to be able to spread knowledge about research without animal testing, there must also be knowledge to spread. That is why the Left Party is proposing an increase in funding for this research. We also proposed an increased focus on viral research, both to increase preparedness and research on viruses and vaccines and to increase research on the impact of pandemics on society at large. It can be about mental illness, isolation, trust in authorities and influence on democracy. Madam President, I would like While more have been admitted to our higher education institutions, it has been more difficult to study when much of the studies during the pandemic have been conducted digitally. In the Left Party Budget Movement, we had several proposals that could have improved the study social environment. We proposed, among other things, a strong investment in the student unions, both for the study social work and to strengthen the student union work. The Student Union's work is important for the students' well-being and thus their ability to complete their studies. Many graduate students have been held back in their work by the fact that the entire higher education sector has for some time been at a standstill globally due to the pandemic. In order to allow for an extension of the doctoral period for those affected by the consequences of the pandemic, we have allocated funds to the higher education institutions for extensions. Another of our efforts is to increase the remuneration per student by 1 000 SEK. Such an increase would increase the quality of education and would increase the possibility of supporting those who need support to complete higher education. Unfortunately, both the educational support and the extra support are lacking. I believe in a broader recruitment and that everyone should have the opportunity to study at the university, but then we must also have a university that has the resources and the opportunity to receive students with varying backgrounds and experience. If more people are to dare to apply for higher education and recruitment is to be broadened, support for students with disabilities must also be extended. Therefore, we extend the support to the Special Education School Authority, which grants part of the support to students with disabilities. After the Left Party proposed increased support for students with disabilities and several times raised the issue in the Riksdag, where the then Minister for Higher Education claimed that more resources were not needed, the government has nevertheless made a commitment in this budget to students with disabilities. This applies both to educational support and, in particular, to training aid. Thank you for that! Today, few disabilities give the right to adapted university tests. People with disabilities and diabetics can get adapted test situations but cannot be guaranteed that. In order for more people to be entitled to adapted university tests and test situations, the Left Party increases the UHR's budget for the university test. Persons with disabilities are under-represented among those with higher education and among those with upper secondary education degrees. Everyone must have equal opportunities to take the university test. Everything else is discriminatory. In this part too, the government has listened to V to some extent and is now giving the visually impaired the opportunity to take the university test also in the spring, for which we also thank them. We see a risk that the fee for the university exam may be increased because the exam is underfunded today. The Left Party provides resources to avoid such a fee increase for the university exam, as this risks leading to fewer people choosing to write the exam. One of the university's most important tasks is to reduce cross-recruitment, and here the university test and alternative admissions are important. Everyone should be able to feel that they have the opportunity to study further if they want to. In this spring's treatments of exercise, we will come back with suggestions for a better college. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party do not take part in the decision because our budget fell, but I refer to the special opinion of the Left Party. I would like to conclude by wishing everyone present and those listening to a Merry Christmas.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-326	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to extend a warm welcome to Anna Ekström in her new role as Minister of Higher Education and Research. I hope that we will see Anna Ekström debating these issues in this House shortly. She's definitely not going to be bored in her new assignment. In addition, there is too much – unfortunately, one might say – to do. Madam President, I would like As a liberal, I always care about education and education. It is important both for the development of the individual and for the development of society at large. Education and education, as much as culture, should be able to stand on their own feet without having to be directly beneficial at all times. I am going to make some impact on the Liberals' policy on higher education and research. We've been debating youth school for two hours. It's extremely important. We must not forget the importance of youth education for higher education and, not least, for research. The basis for this is quality. Quality in youth education guarantees quality in higher education and research. When students with inadequate prior knowledge or poor writing and reading skills choose to study in higher education, it has an inhibitory effect on the level at which the teaching can be conducted. Higher education should be just higher and not need to equip students with basic knowledge and skills. This will be done by the youth school. That is why the quality of youth education must always be at the centre of attention. The liberals believe, among other things, that, in addition to strengthening the quality of the youth school, we need to continue to develop higher education. It is a subject that we talk about quite rarely, but which is very important for learning in higher education. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to compete as a knowledge nation, there must be good access to higher education throughout the country. We are sometimes accused of being somewhat elitist in our policies on education, higher education and research, but I would like to emphasise that this is important. Today's labour market demands that individuals should be able to change in the middle of life, deepen their skills and so on, and this is facilitated by access to higher education throughout the country. We firmly believe that we should safeguard the quality of higher education by never allowing more places of education if this is done at the expense of quality. Quality is always at the centre, and we see that in several areas there is a widespread shortage of university teachers, which prevents us from expanding and expanding without compromising the quality of teaching. More needs to be done to increase access to university teachers to ensure that all new students receive high-quality education, regardless of where in the country it takes place. Last spring, the Riksdag decided on the research bill that the Liberals, together with the Center Party and the then government constellation, collaborated on. We are, of course, behind the research bill, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask the government a few questions, if it had been here, about what is going on with some of the parts that we were particularly keen to include. The research bill states that criteria should be developed for when a university can be considered to be transformed into a university. Conversions should not be the result of the Social Democratic electoral promises, but there needs to be an objective process. The question is whether this objective process is underway somewhere at the Government Office. We would have liked to have seen the results. We were also keen to further strengthen the concept of academic freedom and to include it in the Constitution. For this to be possible, a parliamentary inquiry is required, states the research bill. Over the past year, we have seen how academic freedom becomes a bat in the political debate, from left to right, but its importance is too great for this to continue. The concept therefore needs to be investigated, refined and written into the Constitution. We hope that the government will continue this work in the spring as well. Madam President, I would like Modern research is becoming increasingly dependent on advanced equipment – data capacity, cleanroom, advanced telescopes and so on. It's called the infrastructure of research. We have two large and highly renowned materials research facilities in ESS and MAX IV. We are proud of that, but more needs to be done linked to ESS and MAX IV in order for us to take advantage of their full potential. We want to see a will orientation of the government that this is also important for Sweden as a cutting-edge nation in research. Madam President, I would like Research is the foundation of Swedish competitiveness, Swedish growth and Swedish welfare. The importance of it can never be overestimated. I hope that Anna Ekström, as the new minister for this area, will take the opportunity to really deepen, continue and develop the work in the remaining time before we hopefully change government.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-337	Madam President, I would like Actually, I didn't ask for a reply because we disagreed very much, but I did it more to get a chance to talk some research, because you don't have time for that when you only have eight minutes of speaking time for this whole large area. But there are some things that the honourable Member said that I want to problematize a little bit. As far as access to higher education is concerned, Maria Nilsson said that it must not be at the expense of quality and that we may sometimes accuse the Liberals of not wanting to expand. But we have a quality system that ensures this when we make an extension. Sometimes the quality system says: You have too few doctorate teachers and so on. Then you have to pause your education. So we already have a quality system today. Does the honourable Member mean that system is not enough? We understand that the Liberals sometimes want to stop the important expansion, which is linked to our being able to supply the whole country with skills. As the honourable Member said, higher education is about both education and education, but we now see that we have a huge shortage of teachers, for example, which we have talked about earlier in the two hours that we have been standing here. We also have a shortage of nurses. Often those who live elsewhere in the country do not want to go to Lund or Uppsala to educate themselves. They want a little closer to their education. That is why the expansion has made a big difference when it comes to ensuring that we actually have competent staff in the areas I mentioned. So I want to problematize a little bit. Does Maria Nilsson not think that we have a well-developed quality system?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-341	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Gunilla Svantorp, for the question. I absolutely believe that we have a quality system. I have no doubt about that, and I do not question that. But I am looking for this: An education for a nurse in one place in the country must be equivalent to that training in another place in the country. There, doctorate teachers are of crucial importance. We cannot expand the university and higher education at such a pace that we do not have time to train university teachers too, so that there will be more PhDs who can teach the new students. If there is a gap there, the quality deficiencies will arise. Gunilla Svantorp mentioned teacher training. We are not in favour of dealing with the shortage of teachers by expanding teacher training, because we see that the places that exist today are not overexploited, if you say so. We need to find other ways to deal with the alarming shortage of teachers that exists today.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-343	Madam President, I would like I think we fully agree that we need more ways to get people with the training they need – teachers, nurses and so on – across the country. It is therefore important that we also have practical research. It takes that you don't have very long to have a university in order to have the internship-related research. We have also had an experiment that has now been permanentized with ULF money – development, learning, research. It's been really important. It has been possible to follow what is happening there. Do the Liberals continue to support this initiative? It's important to the whole country.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-345	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have a section in our exercise for higher education that deals with practical research and the importance of it. Of course we see that need too, but the difference between the Liberals and the Social Democrats is that at all times we put quality first. I cannot always see that the Social Democrats are doing the same. It was very gratifying that Anna Ekström, when she took up her new assignment, just focused on quality in higher education. I take this as a sign that the Social Democrats are beginning to discover late in the day that this is what must always be at the heart of higher education and research.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-347	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report. I will start by talking a little about our higher education policy and research policy from a broader perspective. We have put forward a common budget, but I was still thinking of touching a little on our own policy in this area. First of all, I will comment on a couple of things that have been said here. The fact that we do not have more joint proposals on the educational side is mainly due to lack of time. It is not because we have different opinions, as we do, which is quite natural. These differences of opinion are not close to those between the Center Party and the Social Democrats, for example when they signed the January Agreement, so I do not think this is a major problem. Maria Nilsson referred to the conversion of higher education institutions to universities. I've heard rumors that another college is going to be a university. Soon we'll have no colleges left, only universities. It can be a policy you can conduct and an opinion you can have. We Swedish democrats want a distinction between colleges and universities, and we do not think that we can have universities all over the country. We believe that it is an advantage to have a difference and that in this way we can spread higher education institutions more across the country. Higher education institutions have less demands than universities. As a result, higher education institutions can be spread more across the country and have more students. I gleamed a little bit in the Research Barometer during the fall. It's always interesting reading. Internationally, we are reasonably good for research according to many parameters. According to the Research Barometer, we spend considerably more money per capita on research than the top five OECD countries. But we are significantly lower in the proportion of citation impacts. That's where we're at place 13 in the world. We are none of the top five countries in the OECD, and it is with them that we should compare ourselves, I think. One might well ask how important and relevant it is with citation impacts and publications, but there is in any case an improvement potential. As I have said before, Sweden is well placed in terms of its share of GDP for research and development, but we have a higher proportion of funds and funds coming from the private business sector than the average in the Western world. There's actually a pretty significant difference. What happens if the benevolence of the private sector fails? Here it is important that rules and laws are adapted to an industry that invests a lot in research and development. I am thinking of tax rules and other laws. It is very important that we maintain the share of private sector research and development. I would also like to point out the importance of resuming research into nuclear energy. There is no explicit ban on this research, as speakers have said in the speaker's chair here. But when the government has signalled that nuclear energy is passing, of course, interest decreases. Nuclear energy will be needed in the future, as has been demonstrated, not least this winter, with sky-high electricity prices. We must maintain our competence in this area for the future. We were once almost the world leader in this area. Now we are falling behind, and that is very worrying and very sad. One of the countries with which Sweden cooperates most in research is China. In fact, there we are at the same level as Norway, which I think surprises some here. Then you get unsearched into aspects of safety and leakage of important information. What exactly is the safety at our universities, and how much of our indigenously produced knowledge leaks to China on improper grounds? I think the answer is a little worrying. We know China is spying through other channels. They run their businesses through domestic legislation. Are they not spying through the students that they may in some cases send here? There is work to be done here. No matter what government we get after 2022, we have to deal with these problems. In the past, I have mentioned something that Maria Nilsson also mentioned, namely that both this government and previous governments have invested too unilaterally in quantity rather than quality in higher education places on theoretical subjects. It is supposed to be a balance between these two, but when you unilaterally invest only in quantity, quality suffers. I should like to make that clear. At the same time, society has a pressing need for professional education. Some of those who attend theoretical higher education could attend practical education, perhaps university of applied sciences or something similar. That would benefit both themselves and society. Finally, Madam President, I am aware that certain training courses require more resources and money than others. That must be the case, and that will always be the case. It depends on the nature of the education. But when I look at the government's latest budget, at least I'm starting to think a little bit. The compensation for a full-year student at the medical programme is 66 600 SEK. For scientific or technical education it is 56 000 SEK. For design, on the other hand, it is SEK 159 000, and for the most expensive education, the opera education, it is as much as SEK 327 000 a year. So there are five medical students at each opera student. This should be reviewed, I think. I am well aware of the different nature of education and that they require different amounts of resources. But what do they do in opera training that makes it five times more expensive than medicine training? I have oversold my speaking time, but I would still like to take this opportunity to wish the Bureau and all the Members a happy and restful Christmas.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-360	Madam President, I would like Together with the rest of the world, Sweden has been fighting for more than a year and a half against the covid-19 pandemic. The situation is still uncertain, but the economy is recovering rapidly, more are coming back to work and new opportunities to solve societal problems are created. The green relaunch of the Swedish economy continues with this budget. The efforts will take Sweden forward after the pandemic, while at the same time building a greener and more sustainable society. Climate change is the greatest threat to humanity and global ecosystems of our time. The world and Sweden are in great need of measures to deal with fires, storms, droughts and torrential rains caused by climate change and which cause major damage to both people and ecosystems. We Social Democrats are ready and willing to take on the task of coping with the climate crisis and limiting warming to 1.5 degrees in accordance with the Paris Agreement. There is still time to reverse developments. The Government's budget proposal contains strong measures to reduce climate emissions and promote the transition to a fossil-free welfare society. All relevant policy areas need to be integrated into the climate issue and take into account the different conditions that exist for people and businesses in different parts of the country. If we work together, we can meet the climate challenges while at the same time providing opportunities for new jobs and protecting our well-being. Madam President, I would like Today, industry accounts for more than a third of Sweden's emissions. Reducing these emissions is crucial to achieving climate targets. At the same time, industry is also a key element in reducing emissions by developing new solutions and innovations. In order to promote such a development, the government wants to strengthen its investment in the industrial life. Industry's willingness to invest in climate change is great. Among other things, Industrikliv has contributed to the development of fossil-free steel and the production of green hydrogen. In addition to promoting climate change within industry, the initiative also contributes to strengthening Swedish exports and Sweden's competitiveness. It is also important to cope with the climate change situation that we continue to develop new technologies that enable negative emissions. Therefore, the Government is introducing operating aid for the capture, capture and storage of biogenic carbon dioxide, bio-CCS, using so-called reverse auctions. Madam President, I would like As I said, there is a green industrial wave in Sweden. But more and more people are identifying skills shortages as the major challenge for the industry's continued climate transition. Demand is expected to increase, among other things, in technologies, service personnel and engineers for battery factories, hydrogen plants, new fossil-free production methods and renewable electricity generation. The Government is therefore proposing a new state-funded competence boost for the climate that will promote the climate change of the business community and the transition to a circular economy. Madam President, I would like Climate action is climate policy in practice. It supports local and regional climate investment. With this, some 3 600 projects have been supported and over 65 000 charging points have been put in place, and hundreds of business dreams of green conversion have been realised. Now we are strengthening the support so that emissions can decrease faster and the charging infrastructure continues to be expanded. Biogas is also an important tool for climate change. Biogas is made from residues and waste and plays an important role in the transition to a circular and bio-based economy in Sweden. In order to increase the production of biogas, the Government proposes a biogas subsidy of SEK 500 million. Madam President, I would like Biodiversity declines globally, ecosystem services deteriorate and 1 million species are at risk of extinction from the face of the earth. Efforts are needed to formally protect valuable natural areas. We Social Democrats believe that both forest management and protection are needed in Sweden. The protected forest should be well-chosen and found throughout the country. It is of great importance that we have sustainable forest growth with good and secured access to biomass from the Swedish forest. Nationally, we need a versatile use that helps to strengthen the forest's resistance to pests, fungi, storms and droughts. And we need growth to create and maintain high natural values and bio-based products and services. The government has proposed a major investment in protection of a valuable nature. This also includes the possibility of compensation to landowners for the protection of forests. It is therefore regrettable that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats are making a substantial reduction in the appropriation for protection of a valuable nature. The effect is that the authorities must give priority to mountain forests, because they have special protection. This means that protection in other parts of the country is neglected, and it damages biodiversity on the coasts and in the archipelagos. There will be less city-wide protection and less protection of deciduous leaf forests. The reduction also means that landowners' possibilities for compensation for the protection of forests are considerably reduced. The reduction in appropriations is likely to have serious consequences. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe in an active environmental and climate policy for the green jobs of the future, for change throughout the country and for a secure welfare. In a fossil-free welfare country, everyone – no matter who they are and where they live – should be able to live, develop and realize their dreams. It is the Social Democratic vision of the green folk house. Finally, I would like to support the reservation in paragraph 1. In paragraph 2, I refer to our specific opinion.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-377	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for an interesting speech. There are many things in the speech that I am happy about and that are included in the Social Democrats' draft budget, although it is not what has been reviewed in the Riksdag in a completely unchanged form. For example, the investments in bio-CCS are something that has been important for the Center Party, and we are pleased to note that they are still there. It's nice that some things survive the January Agreement. Although it has stopped working, it is good to see that the benefits that we did together there continue even in time. I will address a somewhat complicated and unpopular subject in my line. It relates precisely to the budget for the protection of a valuable nature. I do not feel in any way that I need to defend the draft budget of other parties there. However, I note that the appropriation for protection of a valuable nature is increasing in all draft budgets this year, as was the increase in previous years when we negotiated a budget together. The question I have for Mrs Burwick is: why is it so urgent that this particular appropriation not only be maintained at the same level but increased? There is no lack of urgent environmental measures to be taken. We know that we would have to have a more aggressive policy on the circular economy and on other actions on biodiversity, such as the conservation of valuable nature that we in the Center Party have in our budget motion. This is probably not the case for most people. However, these are two different budget lines. It is primarily about acquiring new land and allocating more land for formal protection. But it is quite a lot less money for what is actually about actually taking advantage of what is already protected and ensuring that the values that were there from the beginning do not disappear, which unfortunately is a situation that we have around the country. I am therefore genuinely interested in this. Why is it so important that, instead of other measures, this line should not just be maintained but extended?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-383	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for the question. It goes without saying that very many of the issues on which we have negotiated for many hours with regard to the January agreement remain. The January agreement contained so much good climate and environmental policy. The government will come up with, among other things, an action plan for plastics in the spring, which I know the honourable Member is deeply involved in. It is therefore clear that the government will deliver a great many measures in this area, and it is also included in the budget. But in this area there have been very extensive discussions between different parties to develop a bill on the forest. And of course there are many different entrances to this. From the Social Democrats' point of view, it is incredibly important for us to be able to balance forestry policy in terms of both protection and use. Our entrance has been that we need to ensure that we have access to forest protection throughout the country. There is a great need for it. We have had many discussions in this House also on compensation for forest owners. Many other parties have had a rather high tone on this issue. Then there will also have to be resources to cope with that policy. And that is what the government wanted to do but is now not included in this budget. It is clear that the EUR 2 billion by which the budget is reduced will make a huge difference in this area. I think the honourable Member himself understands that.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-387	Madam President, I would like Again, it is very gratifying that the good parts of the January agreement continue. One of them is that the investigation to strengthen ownership in the forest and to ensure that we strengthen the conditions for Swedish forestry in the long term is realized. I very much hope that we will see that we have broad support for this in this House. But that is different from the budget line we are discussing at the moment. These are two different issues. I do not question the fact that we have protection of a valuable nature. And I do not question that part of this protection is formal, although I hope that voluntary provisions will become the norm, as the Forest Bill says, and that that part will be upgraded. But the question remains: why is it so important to extend this particular issue? It is clear that those who get their land expropriated and those whose private land becomes a nature reserve should have compensation for it. But these are also communication vessels. We can also say that perhaps it is not more formal protection that is the most important thing. And it is not more nature reserves that are the most important. It is equally important for other environmental measures and for us to protect what we have already set aside.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-391	Madam President, I would like As far as the latter is concerned, we Social Democrats fully agree. Of course we will work that way. If we present an important proposal in the Swedish parliament, it is also linked to having funding to be able to manage this proposal. I very much hope that we will have good discussions on this proposal here. But, as I said, we also need to see that it has funding. Now we will have another budget in this area. I therefore hope that the Center Party will help us to really make wise decisions in this area.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-394	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Burwick for her speech. I, too, wanted to dwell a few minutes on the forestry issue. I can begin by saying that these are rather harsh words from the Social Democrats, which is a little strange. Money was mentioned for compensation in the event of denied felling of mountain forests. There, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats propose exactly the same level of funding as the government proposed in its budget bill. We can also note that there is more money in this year's budget than in the previous year's budget for additional protection of valuable nature, just as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would have liked in its budget base. What we say no to is the 2 billion that the government has somewhat unclearly put into its budget proposal but which we still have to assume aims to forcely take over a very large area of land from all our Swedish forest owners, not least in the mountain forest. Then I have a question for the Social Democrats. How much forest do the Social Democrats think should be excluded from production? If so, how are we going to find all the biomaterial we want to produce in order to build wooden houses, make wood fibre clothes and drive on forest residues? How are we going to get all this raw material if we're going to reduce our forest production? The question is whether the ultimate goal is to reduce forest production in Sweden. No other conclusion can be drawn if we continue to exclude land from production at the rate that the Social Democrats seem to want to look forward.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-400	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Jessica Rosencrantz! It is as if the honourable Member did not listen to my speech. What I said was that, according to us Social Democrats, both forestry and forest protection are needed in Sweden – both farming and protection. I also talked about the importance of growth to create and maintain both high natural values as well as bio-based products and services. It is precisely this dual aspect of forestry policy that it is so important that we can stand for in the Swedish Parliament. We need sustainable forestry. Of course, we Social Democrats see forests and bio-based products as an important part of climate change. That is quite obvious to us. But since the forest is also an important carbon sink, we also see the importance of protecting nature. My question back will therefore be: Do the Moderates want to protect forests in the whole country, or is it only mountain forest that the Moderates want to protect? And how do the Moderates view the aspect of forest policy that is also important, that is to say that we must be able to use the forest sustainably and protect the forest?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-404	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Burwick for her reply, although I did not realise that it was a particularly concrete response. Let me say that we can agree that we must, of course, use but also protect a lot of valuable areas. That is why, as we can see, between a quarter and a third of all forest land – a little depending on how you count – is already excluded from production in Sweden. It is therefore not the case that Sweden, compared to other countries, lags behind when it comes to protecting nature. We are supposed to protect nature, but there must also be boundaries if we are at the same time to safeguard a bioeconomy. If we are to crowd out fossil alternatives using forest products, we cannot protect any amount of land; rather, we need to have faith in our 300 000 private forest owners, who manage to combine production with natural considerations every day – and have done so for generations. My question back is therefore: Do you want to reduce forest production in Sweden, Marlene Burwick? Is that the policy of the Social Democrats? Then it is good to say it. How much area do you want to exclude from production? Is it an area equivalent to, for example, the whole of Västmanland, as proposed by the Forest Investigation?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-408	Madam President, I would like No, we do not want to reduce forest production. A fundamental part of our social democratic forestry policy is the sectoral responsibility of forestry and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. We have also ensured that ownership of forests is strengthened and protected, and for us it is also important to ensure that there are sufficient resources for compensation to landowners. It is an incredibly important part of the overall forestry policy that we stand for.
i-4SzaTXK7tH4ZjrFax1NeU2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Marlene Burwick! I noticed that Marlene Burwick brought up the green folk house. This is something that Göran Persson spoke about in his day, and I think it is a sympathetic expression. This underscores, of course, in some way, that we should have great, green ambitions in the environmental field, but that we should also have justice. Before the Social Democrats came into government, the current Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson declared that it was already too expensive to refuel. There wouldn't be any tax increases. We know how it went: there was a tax increase on tax increases – and then there was the reduction obligation, which now increases the price of diesel, for example, by between half and a whole crown each year. This affects the whole of society, and of course it affects entrepreneurs and people in rural areas. Above all, it affects people in agriculture. What is the message of the Social Democrats to these people and traders? Should the world's most expensive diesel be even more expensive? Is it compatible with the green folk house, or is it perhaps prepared to review the reduction levels now that the next control station is approaching?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-413	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Martin Kinnunen! For us Social Democrats, the issue of climate is by far the biggest issue of fate, and we know that emissions from the transport sector account for about one third of emissions. We must do everything we can to reduce these emissions, and we do so in different ways. It is clear that electrification is a very important part, but it is also about being able to change the idea of all the millions of cars that currently exist in Sweden and that need to be involved in changing. Therefore, the reduction obligation is very important, and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament around it. With the signals we send to industry and industry, this means increased production of biofuels in Sweden, which of course is also important from a price perspective. If you want to manage the climate transition – and you also want to ensure that all of Sweden is involved in the climate transition – you need to ensure that we can implement the reduction obligation in a good way and send the signals to the business community that means that production is increased and that we thus have an increased supply of biofuels. This will eventually lead to lower costs.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-417	Madam President, I would like It sounds good that we should increase the supply so that the price decreases. But now the Social Democrats have been in power for almost eight years, and we see that the share of imported biofuels is the same. Although production in Sweden has increased slightly, demand is increasing significantly more. Demand will also increase even more in the future. There is no realistic plan for how we can be near self-sufficient, but what we see is annual price increases. It will not be possible to address this with more efforts in Sweden, but the demand balance in Europe looks like this: we see every year increases in diesel prices of about 75 cents. Is it a fair policy where we bring all of us with us? Is this the green folk house – that we should have the world's most expensive diesel in Sweden?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-419	Madam President, I would like As I said, when it comes to the transformation, we need to ensure that we have the opportunity to change the whole transport sector. We know, as I said, that electrification is on the rise, but it will take time before we have changed the whole transport sector. We also need other tools to do that. I have a question back to the Swedish Democrats, who still talk about wanting to see a green folk house. It is completely impossible to manage it if you do not make sure that the whole of Sweden can be involved in the transition and if you cannot ensure that there is access to biofuels so that everyone can participate in the transition. That is what the Swedish Democrats deny the Swedish people.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-421	Madam President, I would like This is not just a debate on the environmental budget, but it is also the annual reminder to me and my colleagues in this House that we are doing too little to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. When we look at the milestones in the results report, we can see that we estimate that we reach four of the goals. There are four objectives in which we cannot give an assessment, that is, we cannot say whether we reach them or not. The remaining objectives are not achieved. Every year during this parliamentary term that I have been standing in the Chamber during this debate, I have reminded you that these are objectives that would have been achieved before my generation had to start to tackle them. We haven't been able to do that. I think it is good that we receive the annual reminder that, although there is much to be proud of when it comes to Swedish environmental and climate policy, we are not where we ourselves have been saying for decades that we want to be. More efforts will be needed, greater efforts will be needed and smarter efforts will be needed to achieve our goals. It is not politics alone that solves this, but politics has an extremely important faciliterating role and an extremely important role as a catalyst for Swedish environmental and climate work to be more effective and more successful. I would like to give that reminder to colleagues in this House again this year. Madam President, I would like However, this is not just reason to be discouraged. We should not bury ourselves in the sand, say that the battle is lost, give up, go home, take Christmas and forget about this, but this can also be seen as a call to us to actually do a little more and to realize that all the simple victories are not won yet. There are still relatively small efforts that could be of great benefit to the environment if we have the courage to do them from the political side. We still have a job that can be done to find these effective measures that actually mean a transformation of society but also reduce society's impact on ecosystems, biodiversity and Swedish nature. There are still simple victories to be won. It is precisely part of these victories that I would like to mention. For sure, this is about a social transition – a transformation of our entire economy and how we view nature, the cycles and our relationship with them. But it is also about doing some smart things that we should be able to have broad political agreement on. One example is the circular economy area, for which I am grateful that we received Sweden's first strategy. There we line up a number of areas where we could do quite a lot with rather small political efforts. It's about turning the waste stairway around and turning it into a more circular thinking. We will need to review some legislation, but the basis for Swedish environmental policy must be to move from a 20th century thinking where we are going to get rid of, dig down or burn up waste to actually look at this as the resources it means – to look at quality rather than origin and to remove the obstacles faced by those actors who want to build a more circular economy. There is a great deal to be done there, and politics has a crucial role to play. It is about looking at the most critical raw materials, those that are most important for our economy to function and on which we are most dependent but on which we also have very little extraction or production in Sweden and Europe, which means that we are dependent on imports of them, not infrequently from dictatorships and rogue states or at best from countries where working conditions are so bad that we probably do not want to think about how, for example, our critical earths are extracted. Here we can do quite a lot to increase recycling which today, for example for some of the earth's metals, is around 1 percent. With relatively little effort we could get that recycling up, which makes us less dependent on states we do not want to depend on, reduces our impact on the climate and also increases social sustainability. This is an excellent example of how the different dimensions of sustainability – social, economic and ecological – are interrelated. We have done a great deal during this term of office – the Center Party in collaboration with the Liberals and the Government – to increase efforts on wetlands. It is another example of a rather small measure where relatively small amounts of money in a state budget go a long way to increase biodiversity, strengthen society's emergency preparedness and reduce our eutrophication. On behalf of the Center Party, we would like to see those efforts permanent but also that the LEVA coordinators, who are doing a fantastic job of tying up the money with the landowners who are actually going to make the efforts, continue to do their important work. It is yet another good example of a very small measure that would make an enormous contribution to our environmental objectives and to Swedish society as a whole. Madam President, I would like I could continue to recite suggestions, but eight minutes, after all, is only eight minutes. You notice the general trend. For the Center Party, this is about seeing the opportunities, focusing on where we can do the most good but also daring to prioritise resources where they do the most good. We have also made some different priorities from what the government has done in its budget proposal, which was then changed by the right-wing parties and won a hand in this House. For example, we do not think it is precisely the appropriation for nature protection that should be increased; instead, we are increasing the budget lines for the measures that, sometimes, these protected areas seek to maintain the natural values that were originally the reason why the areas were protected. Madam President, I would like We must start to settle with the idea that it is government agencies that can see where we are making the best efforts for biodiversity in Sweden and for ecosystems. And we must realise that they do not always have the resources or the know-how to do so. In a motion that we will discuss later in the parliamentary year, we have exercised that the experiment should be completed by inventorying green infrastructure. It is a clear example of having had an overbelief in what the state and government authorities can do. A project has been launched that seeks to define what is most important. But in the map material of the county administrative boards, it turns out that a majority of the counties' land area is plotted as somehow valuable for biodiversity. If everything is safe, Madam President, nothing is safe. This is not the big problem anyway. The big problem is that when you go out into the landscape and look at what's plotted, the map doesn't match reality. Madam President, I would like I was never allowed to do the lump, and above all not during the Cold War, but I understand that the focus is that it is the map you should go on, even if the map does not match the reality may not always be wise, least of all from the political side. This is a typical example of the fact that although we would like it, the state does not have the know-how, the resources or the opportunity to tell landowners where the really valuable thing is. Always the person who uses the land will know better. Madam President, I would like What is important for politics is that we ensure that they are actually on the track, as most people want to be, in terms of building more of biodiversity and not less. That is the starting point for most of Sweden's farmers, soon to say everyone, I dare say. The policy must also recognise that. I have barely had time to talk about climate change, Madam President, but I think it will be done in this House today. Let me just conclude that it is the question of fate that binds all the others together. It is the big challenge that we have to solve, and it is a prerequisite for us to be able to solve the other environmental and climate issues. But the resource issue, which I have talked about, is also an aspect of solving the climate challenge that we all too often lose out. That's what the Center Party wants to lift back into the map.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-441	Madam President, I would like Quite a lot of what Magnus Ek talked about in his speech I can sign. But the question is, what is the reality of what he mentioned? I looked at the areas where the Center Party wants to cut down on the environmental budget, and there are many of the areas that Magnus Ek himself chose to raise in his speech. It's environmental monitoring and research. The Chemicals Inspectorate gets less money in the Center Party's budget. Sweden's meteorological and hydrological institutes receive a cut in the Center Party budget, as well as, of course, the protection of a valuable nature, as we have noted since before. The same applies to the Agency for Marine and Water Management and so on. In many areas that Magnus Ek talked about, his own party goes forward with quite drastic cuts. I find it strange that Magnus Ek talked about those very questions and would like to know why.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-444	Madam President, I would like Mr Tovatt is standing here talking with a serious tone about how we slaughter a lot of items in the environmental budget under Category 20. It is a bit strange, Madam President, because I am sure Mr Lorentz knows that on the vast majority of these points, all except one that I mentioned and to which I come back, it is the miscalculation money that we have withdrawn. It is a question of certain measures on which we do not agree. For example, as far as HaV is concerned, it is simply a mission that we do not think the authority should be given, and then we cut it down there and put that money somewhere else. It is not something that in any way harms Sweden's climate or environmental policy work. On the contrary, as Mr Lorentz did not mention, we are drawing attention to what I mentioned here, that is to say, above all what is in order to take care of, care for and preserve what is already set aside as formal protection. It is actually a problem that we form nature reserves, although there are no management plans and financing plans ready. We put it in formal protection but do not take responsibility for the nature reserve to continue to be protected and for the environmental values not to be demoted, damaged or lost. I grew up on a farm where you have a generational perspective on how to manage land. You always have to think at least 80 years ahead. For me, it is a hole in the head to set aside land that we are not prepared to manage and we cannot explain what should be managed, how it should be managed and how it should be financed. The knowledge of it needs to be increased before we protect more. When it comes to what we are actually cutting down on, it is precisely about the protection of valuable forests. Above all, we want to reduce the pace of formal provisions, for a number of reasons. On the one hand, we must give priority to management and, on the other, we are not convinced that it is in formal protection that we find the most effective environmental policy work, which is rather in voluntary provisions, and, on the other hand, it is a great deal that is excluded from production, which we have seen many times before. Madam President, I would like Member Lorentz Tovatt has no reason to be as concerned and gloomy as he is when he looks at the Center Party budget motion.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-450	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for the answers. It was easy for Magnus Ek to focus only on protection of valuable nature. Magnus Ek and I draw completely different conclusions about how to protect valuable nature, which is known for a long time. We think you should protect for real. There should be control and so on. Magnus Ek chose not to answer the questions about the areas where cuts are made, and I didn't even count them all up. One cut of SEK 100 million in skills for the climate shift, and now that heavy industry is changing, the need for more competence in the field is central. The Swedish Research Council for Environment, Agricultural Sciences and Building Society also receives cuts. So there are substantial cuts on point-by-point, not just in terms of protection of a valuable nature, so the issue remains.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-454	Madam President, I would like I believe that anyone who reads the Minutes tomorrow or in 50 or 100 years' time will see that I have answered the honourable Member's question. I could turn it around. We add 1 billion to agriculture, where a great deal is about just being able to farm the land in a sustainable way. Why doesn't the government do that? After all, it is 1 billion that is needed both for competitiveness and for us to have a sustainable agriculture that creates biodiversity in the agricultural landscape. You can turn this around and turn it around. I know why we are setting our priorities, and I reply to each one, but not in one minute. But that's not a problem. The question back, to which Mr Lorentz will be happy to reply in his speech later, is precisely what I put to Mrs Burwick: why do we have to blow up the budget line of the protection of a valuable nature year after year more than anything else? For me, it's starting to look like we don't really know where to spend the money. We are blowing up this area even though we know that other areas very well need the investments. And we in this House are not at all sure whether it is precisely more and more of formal protection that is what is needed. This is a difficult question to answer. However, I have not heard from the government why this budget line must be increased significantly year after year.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-459	Madam President, I would like In the Left Party Budget Movement, A Red Policy for a Green Change, we present extensive efforts on welfare and a reformed tax system in order to increase equality through redistribution and create the conditions for success in the green transition. When everyone does things for themselves, regardless of the fact that our lives are connected in a society, the rich draw away, the welfare lags behind and the climate breaks. But when we do things together, it gets better for all of us. Then we can strengthen welfare, increase freedom for most of us, create justice and equality and succeed in the necessary transition. The part of the budget that we are debating here today contains a great deal of good proposals from the government budget in the budget adopted, which the Left Party supports. These include initiatives for the marine and aquatic environment, climate investments and the industrial environment. But there are also some things that we think are missing. That is why we have added 4 billion extra to what was passed in our draft budget. One of the appropriations that we have added in this area of expenditure concerns modern and sustainable cities. While the coronapander has struck and continues to hit hard at all of us, it has shown us that there are other ways to organize our lives and our time. We are more out in nature, air pollution in several cities around the world has been reduced and car traffic has become less frequent. Several cities embraced this and promised their citizens that the reboot after Corona would not be a return to traffic inferno and air pollution. In cities such as Milan, Rome and Barcelona, miles of road have been converted into pedestrian and bicycle routes. In Paris, 72 percent of the parking space was removed, and in London one of the world's largest car-free zones is to be introduced – just to mention a few things. The whole of Sweden is supposed to be in the transition. In our cities, we have the opportunity to make major changes quickly to, for example, reduce car traffic, so let's start there! Sweden's cities have great potential to follow the global trend and build transport efficient cities that reduce emissions and strengthen equality. Through consistent efforts that reduce the scope for motorism, we can create more equal access to public space and give everyone the right to accessible and sustainable travel. It will benefit everyone, but especially those with long incomes. We also propose state aid to municipalities for climate-friendly and greener cities. Through the initiative, the Left Party wants to provide support for a wide range of areas, such as car-free cities, smart urban freight transport solutions, the conversion of offices to housing and the conversion of parking spaces into parks, and a significantly expanded walking and cycling network. Madam President, I would like Emissions need to be reduced significantly faster than is currently happening in Sweden and worldwide. Investment support needs to be increased in order to achieve the system shifts required throughout the country in order to achieve the climate targets. For new technologies, the market needs government intervention in the form of risk sharing and financing to invest in fossil-free solutions. In particular in the transport sector there is a great need for investment in these solutions. The Left Party is therefore proposing increased targeted support for co-financing of climate investment compared to the proposed levels and beyond the current climate environment. Then the question of the forest, to which we so often come back. For the Left Party, the Government's proposed efforts on measures for valuable nature were welcome. We are pleased that they have not fallen into the new budget adopted. To meet the increased interest in visitors, the sites need to be made available in a way that preserves both natural and experience values. In addition, targeted restoration measures are required for endangered species such as Sweden's commitment to conservation. The government has proposed an increase in the allocation for 2022 but then consistently proposes a reduction in the allocation for 2023 and 2024. Instead, the Left Party wants to see a continued increase in funding to ensure that restorations and facilities of wetlands and also investments in near-natural jobs are not lost in the future. The appropriation 1:14 Protection of a valuable nature is an appropriation that the M-KD-SD side has now reduced significantly with the budget adopted compared to the Government's proposal for an initiative, an effort that we in the Left Party supported in our budget. We believe that the grant is one of the most important related to forests, biodiversity and conversion. The purpose of this appropriation is to ensure that funds are available for the protection and conservation of valuable natural habitats for biodiversity as well as for outdoor activities. This is a grant that a party responsible for a budget holds high if it wants to see compensation paid to landowners who want their land to be protected in one form or another. A high grant means that more people can receive compensation but also that more forest can be protected. A low level of this post means the opposite, that fewer can be compensated and thus that a smaller proportion of forest can be protected. Since Sweden does not reach its target for the proportion of forest protected, it is a most regrettable reduction in the allocation. Human beings are fundamentally dependent on ecosystem services from nature that are created and made possible by biodiversity. The wealth of species is crucial to the life opportunities of our generation and future generations and is essentially a prerequisite for continued well-being. The intensive forestry that is going on in Sweden today is a contributing factor to the loss of biodiversity in Sweden, and to whose benefit? Only a few percent of the productive forest land today can be considered old in the biological sense. It affects not only biodiversity but also social and cultural values. It changes people's relationship with the forest and nature and our opportunity to live as part of it. In order to achieve sustainable forestry that is carried out within nature's framework and that protects our remaining forests with high natural values to the necessary extent, Sweden needs to change forestry and, among other things, stop felling forests with high natural values, ensure the quality of the voluntary protection of forests and provide long-term protection for the mountain-side forests. Madam President, I would like We in Sweden may say that we have sustainable forestry. But nature gives us a completely different picture. As our budgetary framework has fallen, we are not taking part in the decision.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-475	Madam President, I would like The climate is the destiny of our time. In the next few years, it will be determined whether humanity will be able to slow down the runaway emissions of greenhouse gases and ensure that the climate does not change irreparably in a way that will make life for future generations more difficult, more dangerous and poorer. These are immeasurable values, both human and natural, in the balance. I don't think we're alone, at home at our round kitchen table with our teenage boys, about often discussing the climate. It's close to our soul. At home at the kitchen table there are many good, wonderful solutions, thoughts and creative suggestions. Climate challenges can be solved if we take the right approach. Instead of symbolic measures, we need a rational policy that facilitates the rapid development of a more climate-friendly technology. Clear market economy instruments and confidence in people's own responsibilities are needed. Whoever pollutes will pay. Climate adaptation requires eco-development. There are many words that are a little complicated in this debate. But for my part, Madam President, I have chosen to identify climate policy as sound liberal farming. I'll be right back. We Liberals are convinced that successful environmental and climate work must be combined with economic growth and growing welfare in Sweden as well as globally. People must be given the opportunity to get out of poverty. On the other hand, people who live a life of prosperity must have the right to dreams. People should be able to build and run growing companies through which ideas and dreams can be realized. A climate policy that denies people this is doomed to failure. Nature protection and care are what we are debating in this House today. It has been dear to us liberals for a long time. In 1904, the Liberal Member Karl Starbäck's motion came to establish national parks. I would now like to mention three areas in our draft budget here in 2021. Let's start with a little more technical, bio-CCS. Operating aid for bio-CCS is increased by 10 million compared to the Government's proposal. The increase is needed to deal with the participation of more players than the state as buyers in the auctions in the event of negative emissions. That is why we are increasing the authorisation considerably. The government allocates 400 million a year to pay for bio-CCS. We set the target of 10 million tonnes of CO2 to be captured in 2030 and 20 million tonnes in 2035. It requires us to step up our efforts to capture. In this budget, we wanted to authorise the government to enter into commitments to capture biogen CO2 equivalent to SEK 60 billion for the period up to 2042. That's a lot of numbers and a lot of words. But we cannot have a passive view of a technology that will be absolutely crucial for us to be able to achieve the 1.5-degree target and perhaps even the 2-degree target. We're going to release a lot of CO2. We need to start collecting again. We will not be able to achieve zero emissions in the case of methane or nitrous oxide. We need to compensate for these emissions. When it comes to charging infrastructure, climate investments in our budget are increased by 1.8 billion compared to the government's proposal. The increase is needed in order to expand the charging infrastructure of existing buildings. Madam President, I would like I have the last few years before my parliamentary term been in the construction industry. I have seen how costly it is with the construction industry's commitment to prepare for charging infrastructure at each parking lot. Now we're going to add all the housing available. How much more expensive is it to complement and expand the charging infrastructure? That is why we spend 3 billion in two years, first 1.8 billion and then 1.3 billion in 2023. It is expensive because it is very tricky to get to it at existing homes. In addition, we must not forget to lay two pipes, one for electricity and one for the digital connection, in order to digitise the governance itself. It is very expensive to find out afterwards that it has been forgotten. I know that from my own experience. Then I would like to say a few words about the forest, I have to. The forest is a common room, Madam President, for outdoor activities, hunting and nature experiences. The forest regulates water, cleans the air, counteracts climate change and is crucial to biodiversity. In the forest there are unique biotopes and ecosystems that are the basis for the survival of many species. At the same time, the use of forests is one of the most important things we can do to manage it. For us liberals, ownership is a very important part of liberal freedom. But perhaps even more important is to cultivate the forest and thus manage it. In my folk-partisan upbringing at home on the farm – to which I am happy to return – the forest, like the animals, was a part of life. Madam President, I would like If we didn't cut firewood on Saturday, we wouldn't have any hot water on Sunday. If we didn't plant spruce plants on one day, we cut the second day the wind trap after the Gudrun storm. We did not thin down and kept clean and neat among the birch pad one day so we devoted ourselves to pulling out the timber using the wire game on our tractor, a Volvo Buster 400. Now the farm has been sold for some time. This autumn I made my first return visit in seven years. Guess what the first topic of conversation was with the new family that owned the farm. It was the forest, or rather the biotop-protected area below our old pulkabacke. I asked: How had the big trees gone? Had the bark drill taken them? When I then spoke on the phone with my father about the visit to the farm, Madam President, he did not ask me how they had renovated the house, what fine machines were bought or how I experienced the visit emotionally. I cried on the way there, and I cried on the way home. What he asked me was, Jakob, how are the old trees down on the hill? That's what matters. The forest is the soul of anyone who uses it. The policy I am faced with in this house that does not trust a forest owner – just as if the words biodiversity would be a new concept on this planet – but instead wants to take the very use of a forest owner also takes away from this person part of his or her soul. Liberalism is diversity, in life as in the forest.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-496	Madam President, I would like Imagine an environmental budget of SEK 4 – 5 billion! It feels very strange, doesn't it? But it's not really that strange, because it was a reality before the Green Party ended up in the government. This was the level on which the Alliance had embarked on the ambitions of environmental and climate action. The distressing thing was that there was no ambition to raise at all. It just stood still for eight years. That was the level of ambition. Then something happened: The Green Party entered the government, and 4 – 5 billion has now become 22 billion. That is about a fivefold increase in the environmental budget. It shows in black and white that something happened at the shift of power. This means a great deal for Sweden and for climate work. This means, for example, that Boliden can now switch its mines to electric power thanks to the Industriklivet, which the right parties fought earlier but which they have now accepted, which I think is very fun. This means that Ovako is now investing in green hydrogen in its steel heating, also thanks to the Industriklivet. This also means, of course, that Hybrid, which is a world-leading project, can become a reality. As a small parenthesis, I would like to take this opportunity to say that it is not only the Industriklivet that has facilitated Hybrid but also the two environmental-partisan reforms of the EU emissions trading scheme and the expansion of wind power in northern Sweden. It is these two reforms that are also the basis for Hybrit and other industrial start-ups to become a reality. This means that it is now teeming with conversion projects around the country thanks to the Climate Tree. There are almost 500 projects in agriculture alone and almost 100 000 charging poles as a result of the government's various charging infrastructure support. Biogas pops up around our country in the form of production facilities and sandwiches. Now we see an enormous expansion of liquid biogas for heavy traffic, which is crucial for the climate. We know that it is the heavy traffic that it has been very tough in the past to reduce emissions from. This also means that we have gone from a single percent rechargeable in new car sales to now being 50 percent thanks to the government's and the Green Party's bonus malus, which has revolutionized Sweden's new car sales and made us now second in the world in terms of electrification of transport. It is an incredible effort, which would not have happened if the Green Party had not joined the government. Instead, the previous government wanted to listen to Volvo when they said: No, we do not want bonus malus! Then the last government stopped the system. Madam President, I would like However, climate policy and environmental policy are broader than just one area of expenditure. Now the blue-brown napkin sketch has gone through in its entirety, and this has been done thanks to the passive support of C and L in this House. This brings together a hard blow to environmental and climate policy. Let me take a few examples. In the midst of the burning situation that we are currently facing with high electricity prices, several billions are being cut down in the most efficient way to reduce electricity costs, namely energy efficiency. This is something that unites the right parties; nor does the Center Party want support for energy efficiency. It's a powerful cutback. They also want fewer energy and climate strategies in the country. This strikes against the expansion of the electricity grid, which is of course crucial. It is becoming more difficult to plan for the expansion of electricity networks. New production is also becoming more difficult. It is therefore very unsmart in view of the price of electricity at the moment and given the need for new electricity generation. These two and many other cuts – including that of protection of a valuable nature – put us at risk of losing SEK 34 billion in EU aid for re-starting after the Corona. It therefore risks having very negative consequences. The most serious thing is that it is now in the midst of the climate emergency that we want to make it cheaper to release carbon dioxide. I just want to say to anyone who might listen to the debate: never be fooled when the right parties talk about effective climate policy! They scrap the most effective action by all of them, i.e. a high carbon price. It is the most effective climate policy that exists on the planet, and it is aimed at scrapping. It is the climate policy of the Moderates and the Right – making it cheaper to release. I know that I have gone over speaking time, so I will try to round off now by saying that, as I said, there are huge differences in Swedish climate policy. I am pleased that the right-hand side has begun to understand the value of spending more money on the climate. Then you solve the situation by numerically trixing, moving some appropriations from other areas of expenditure and so on. But at least you've started to bet a little more than you did before, and that's a good thing. But in the whole, there is an incredible difference between the Green Party and the other parties, not least the right parties. Having said that, I refer to the Green Party's special opinion and ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-509	Madam President, I would like I have two main points. First of all, Mr Tovatt read me aloud in his reply from the table work. So I thought I'd invite you back and ask you a question. If we ignore the 1.7 billion that we are drawing down on protection of a valuable nature – which I have explained both in my speech and in the last line – I note that the Center Party in this area is spending a little more than 731 million more than the government, where the Green Party was in the past. Since what we counted off was apparently a slaughter of the environmental budget, I would like to hear what Lorentz Tovatt thinks about the fact that the Green Party – except in the budget line that is mainly about taking in nature reserves and taking land from private landowners – actually wants to put less than the Center Party does. So I'm buying this back. I also note that during his speech, Lorentz Tovatt spent many minutes explaining why it is so good that the Green Party is in a position of government – now that they have dropped out of the government! There's just a little bit of this with the Green Party's legacy in the government I'd like to talk about. I note that at the Ministry of the Environment, where a new Minister for the Environment has now stepped in, there are a lot of investigations in the drawers that I think would be good to have on Parliament's table before the end of the parliamentary term. This applies, for example, to the producer responsibility for textiles and the freedom of choice in the waste industry, which the industry is screaming for – especially since the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has sewn to everything by defining and extending the definition of municipal waste. The list can be made long. My question when we talk about the Green Party's legacy in the government is therefore: why has it not been able to get these investigations to Parliament's table throughout the parliamentary term? Why do we have completed investigations into matters of urgency to do in environmental policy which the Green Party has not managed to bring to light? Is it perhaps even a bit happy that you now step off the government and do not have to take responsibility for the proposals never coming to Parliament?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-517	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for the line. First of all, let me just say that it is not true that there are a lot of important investigations in drawers. We've been working for high pressure. The departments have more or less stepped on their knees. They haven't had time to do it because we've been working so actively and intensively. We intended to put forward a great deal of proposals in the spring. I hope the new government does. Not least, it would be incredibly important – unfortunately, it is something that the Center Party and the other right-wing parties are opposed – to proceed with the Climate Law investigation in terms of being able to say stop to fossil investment. I sincerely hope that the new government will. As far as budget cuts are concerned, I stood here and tried to put together what Magnus Ek is talking about. The Centre Party's total reductions on UO 20 are SEK 973 million, i.e. almost SEK 1 billion. Magnus Ek wants this to make it the Green Party that is making cuts here. It's a very creative way of counting. Then it is just as Magnus Ek says: On some points you are a little over the government. It's nothing revolutionary; it's about increasing the Industrial Klivet and the Climate Klivet a little. These are initiatives that the Center Party has previously opposed but which are now welcomed, which I welcome. It is great that the Center Party has realised that environmental-partisan budgetary policy is actually heading in the right direction. However, I do not quite understand this numbering that Magnus Ek is doing. On the contrary, I am disappointed that the Center Party is making very drastic cuts in the environmental budget.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-523	Madam President, I would like There's numbers, and there's a head count. I do not deal with the first, but I think that we in this House should be able to deal with the second. We spend 1.7 billion less on forest protection. I don't mind. I even think it is a good thing that we give priority to other things. I also note that when we make that priority we can put more on other things, and that is what I wanted to hear from Lorentz Tovatt: Isn't that good? It is quite simple head count that one should be able to manage. He nods – thank you, Lorentz Tovatt! Then let's move on to why the proposals based on investigations never come, proposals that would be very good if we were to get the circular economy going – for example if we are to move forward with recycling more textiles, for example if we are to create better conditions for the circular economy and end the cycles in the waste industry. Then these proposals need to come forward. I note that the answer is that the departments do not have time. When we look at what proposals had been announced to come to Parliament before the Green Party dropped out of the government, we can note that these were missing. I also don't think you had time to get them in before the bill stop in spring. I think that should be recorded in the Minutes.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-526	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for the change of line. The fact that the departments have no time is because we have such a high pace of reform. That is the reality. It remains to be seen whether that pace of reform continues even when the Green Party has left the government. I really hope so. What Magnus Ek says when he talks about the budget is that if it weren't for this reduction, we would have invested more. That's gonna be weird. Different priorities can be set, but I would like to say one thing: we have courts in this country, and they have decided not least that mountain forest owners should receive compensation for their forests. There are 700 forest owners waiting for compensation. That is the money we add to the budget, and that is the money the Center Party is taking out of the budget. That's where we are, that's all. I don't understand how the center party logic goes together here.
i-UWfvDoNyd9ESxjaRNZ7o65	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Lorentz. As usual, Lorentz Tovatt talks more about someone else's politics than about his own. I will address the policy of the Moderates as a whole in my next speech, so let me come back to it. But it still gets very strange to listen to Lorentz Tovatt, because it sounds like everything has gone in the right direction with the Green Party in the government. Have the criticisms of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council been missed, which note that emissions are decreasing far too slowly to achieve our climate targets? As things stand now, after the government's policy over the past seven years, we will miss the climate target of one third of today's emissions. This corresponds to the emissions of the entire transport sector. This is Lorentz Tovatt proud and pleased, it seems. Above all, he seems to be living in a parallel reality. I see that the transition is being challenged in several areas, not least when it comes to the energy crisis around us. I truly believe that it can jeopardise the confidence of both companies and people in the transition. It is basically a question of the Green Party putting ideological cane horses in front of the climate. It is more important for the Green Party to shut down fossil-free electricity production in the form of nuclear power than to save the climate. Nuclear power currently accounts for one third of our electricity production. In addition, this electricity generation will double to 2045. This believes the Green Party can seriously be solved only by means of wind and sun. That is absurd, Madam President. On the contrary, the Moderates believe that we will need water, wind and nuclear power to succeed in the transition. This is perhaps the single greatest threat to the transition today: that we do not get all the clean electricity needed to make the industrial projects mentioned by Lorentz Tovatt a reality. For they are not reality today. They're built on a lot of more clean electricity. How can the environmental party's nuclear resistance take precedence over the climate?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-535	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the line, Jessica Rosencrantz, and welcome everyone to the Moderate nuclear bingo! In the next few hours it will go pretty fast to get bingo if you count every time you hear a lot of nuclear power. For the Moderates will continue to say it time and again. It is their strategy to avoid taking responsibility for actual policy. The Moderates start nuclear charades as soon as you talk about climate and environmental policy. You do not want to show what you have behind this, because it is a different kind of policy. Let us then come to the policy that actually plays a role, which actually affects Swedish emissions. I fully agree with Jessica Rosencrantz that emissions are falling too slowly. Almost anyone can do that. The question is, how do we get to the target? That is why I focused, among other things, on Moderate politics in my speech. For we are on our way to our goals, but the Moderates are the greatest threat to the policies that take us there. We can take the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's forecasts as an example. Jessica Rosencrantz is wrong when she talks about them, because they show that with existing policies, the policies of the previous government, we are moving towards goals with regard to the transport target. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency points out that we are meeting the 2030 target with new existing policies. This is the policy that the Moderates often oppose. Bonus malus is an essential part of achieving the 2030 target. The Moderates want to abolish bonus malus and reduce the conversion of new car sales. That is why I think it is important to highlight the different entrances to Swedish politics. Here we have a policy that brings us closer to the goal. The Moderates stand for a policy that takes us further away from achieving the goal. It's as simple as that.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-539	Madam President, I would like That was not an answer to the question at all. I find it worrying about the transition that the Green Party is completely ignoring the energy crisis that is around us. The companies don't ignore it. Households don't ignore it. It also damages confidence in the transition. For example, the Institute of Economic Development estimated that when Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 were shut down, it increased emissions in Europe by 8 million tonnes because the need for fossil power increased instead. The fact that we will potentially reach the 2030 target is due to the reduction obligation. The problem is how this will evolve over time. After all, the Green Party is doing everything possible to limit raw materials to the reduction obligation, that is to say biofuels. The aim is to reduce forestry. We can see that the price next year can increase by 1 – 2 SEK. Again, the Moderates are behind this tool. But this is how we talk about a tax cut of 50 cents, which is really about compensating for the fact that, despite the fact that fuels are getting better, more sustainable and better for the environment, this Parliament wants to continue to increase their taxation.
i-98TeiSr3Nhdu8x6L2gkVMr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the line shift! Now there are some in here who have got bingo with regard to nuclear power; the Moderates are doing nuclear bingo. Jessica Rosencrantz is really wrong about the transition. What the heavy industrial players explicitly say is that they do not want nuclear power; they want renewable energy. H2GS explicitly says they don't want nuclear power. Their customers do not want to buy steel produced with nuclear power; they want to buy steel produced with renewable energy sources. This is why H2GS establishes itself in northern Sweden, where there are renewable energy sources. We are in the middle of a situation with very high electricity prices. How can we get out of it? The Moderates say no to energy efficiency. When you talk about new power generation, the Moderates say that nuclear power is 20 years from now. They say no to virtually all new wind power in Sweden. It is a huge blow to electricity prices – almost 60 terawatt hours are said to be no in Sweden. There we can talk about problems with the energy transition.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-546	Madam President, I would like In most Swedes lives a forest mulle that wants to be able to enjoy a clean and prosperous nature, both today and tomorrow. Taking care of our environment and the planet for future generations is a key element of moderate policy. The care for a clean nature, our seas and drinking water and well-managed forests owned by families for generations are just a few parts. A vibrant and prosperous aquatic environment is something that has long been prioritised by the Moderates in our budget movements. The budget we are debating today, the framework of which Parliament has said yes, includes continued efforts for clean seas and watercourses, with reduced environmental pressures and increased biodiversity. We are going to remedy historical sins that burden the environment, not least the Baltic Sea, as we know, suffers from decades of neglect, and we are going to stop the supply of new toxic and harmful substances. Politics sometimes talks too little about man in nature. Swedish outdoor life and Swedish nature offer us opportunities for recreation and relaxation. We protect the unique right of public access with both its rights and obligations. We care for and develop areas of valuable nature. In Sweden everyone should be able to enjoy the beautiful nature we have – today and tomorrow. Therefore, it is also very positive with increased additions to the Swedish outdoor life. Madam President, I would like One of the greatest environmental issues of our time is the climate. The latest UN report confirms the past: climate change is a threat to our future. The earth warms up, ice melts and extreme weather becomes more common. The problems depend on man and must be solved by man. However, Sweden has been able to cope with and benefit from major societal changes in the past. We'll do it again. Industrialisation, beginning in the middle of the 19th century, created many of the Swedish companies that we are by far the most proud of today and that export to the whole world. The expansion of nuclear power during the 1970s made Swedish electricity fossil-free. Digitalisation at the end of the 20th century created the next wave of Swedish innovations. We made all these changes our forces. Sweden has a unique opportunity to take the lead also in the global climate transition, but it requires a policy that creates the right conditions. Today, almost everyone wants to take part in taking responsibility, not least the companies. Swedish companies are in many ways the new environmental movement. Look at Hybrid, which in the near future produces steel without coal! Look at Volvo, which plans to produce only electric cars in 2030! Look at Cementa, as if we were giving them the right conditions could be the world's first climate-neutral cement producer! And look at the forest industry, which replaces by bit fossil materials and fuels with products from the forest! Today, however, politics is failing these companies. They don't get the electricity they need, and they get stuck in difficult state processes. The truth is that the government's climate policy over the past seven years is a failure. Emissions are falling too slowly. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that we miss the long-term target of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 with one third of current emissions. It is quite far from the target and corresponds to the emissions of the entire Swedish transport sector today. The effective solutions have simply had to stand back for symbolic politics. The key to the conversion is largely spelled electrification by both industry and transport. Therefore, more clean electricity is required. No one, except possibly the Green Party, may have missed the energy crisis that is going on around Sweden today. It hits companies that want to change, it hits jobs around the country and it hits the household economy. Perhaps the most important thing for what we are talking about today is that it risks putting away the bones of the whole green transition when we do not get all the electricity we need, and I fear that people's confidence in the transition may be lost. The government's energy policy is simply an accident. The Moderates prioritise a stable electricity supply with low emissions from both water, wind and nuclear power. Nuclear power needs to be developed, not decommissioned. We are protecting today's nuclear power, but we also want to take the next step by building a research reactor for the next generation of nuclear power in the forthcoming parliamentary term. In addition, the conversion of companies and the expansion of electricity networks must be accelerated by shorter and more predictable licensing processes. Pure electricity, expanded electricity grids and shorter permit processes – all of this we need to solve. Each country has a responsibility and an opportunity to reduce its emissions and take the lead in the transition. The budget negotiated by the Moderates with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats is the largest environmental and climate budget ever adopted by the Riksdag. It contains some things in which we agree with the government – Industrikliv, support for biogas and many other things – but I would still like to highlight three important changes in relation to the government's budget proposal. Firstly, in order to reduce emissions quickly, we are committed to capturing and storing carbon dioxide through so-called CCS technology that can significantly reduce our emissions. We allocate SEK 36 billion in total during 2026 – 2046, which means that up to 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year can be captured. This represents as much as 4 per cent of Sweden's total emissions annually. The effort is also six times greater than the government's proposal – and the parties that support that proposal. We know that the government's proposal risks pushing up prices for storage because the effort is too modest, and we risk losing out on the major investments that are possible and that would not have lost the modest effort of the government. We know that capture and storage of carbon dioxide is identified by, among other things, the UN Panel on Climate Change as crucial to achieving the global climate goals. Secondly, in order for our transport to be switched to electricity, charging possibilities are required for both cars and trucks. It should be possible to charge your electric car wherever you live, and it should be easy to do the right thing. During 2022, we invest SEK 600 million in expanding the charging possibilities. But in contrast to the government, we extend the investment in 2023 by 1 billion compared to the government's SEK 0. It is not transport that should be combated but emissions, and then we must enable people to use the electric car wherever they live. Thirdly, forests are central to our environmental policy. We protect ownership so that the forest can be managed sustainably for the benefit of the climate and the environment. What we do in our budget is therefore to stop the government's plans to take over large areas of mountain forest against the owners' will. The Government's proposals are also in direct conflict with property rights and also the increased need for forest raw materials needed to crowd out fossil alternatives. The Social Democrats said earlier that they do not want to reduce forestry, but it is unfortunately not possible to say that if at the same time one is to exclude that type of large area of forest from being cultivated. The truth is that we want to build wooden houses, make clothes out of wood fibers and drive on residual products from the forest. This requires active forestry. The Government's proposal would also have cost SEK 2 billion per year. It is money that can be used for more priority things. But what we do in our budget option is that we spend more money than in previous years on the protection of valuable nature, just as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also wanted. And we make sure that there is money, a total of 410 million, just as the government proposed in the budget bill, to replace the landowners who are denied felling of mountain forests. But the fact that the parties behind the government's forest bill and budget do not even agree on what the money should be used for shows that it is definitely wise to remove the money. If the government wants us to use less forest, which is actually the result, it is better to admit it. We are going to put an end to this, and we are doing so with this budget. Furthermore, we do not intend to contribute to rejecting the more than 300 000 private forest owners throughout our country, often families who have owned their forest for generations and used it with love and concern for nature. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Sweden's environmental and climate budget, but let me conclude by stating that it is equally important, if not more importantly, what we do at European level to jointly halt climate change. In fact, cross-border problems cannot only be solved in the parliament of Sweden but must be resolved on the ground. I hope that we can be many parties pushing for strengthened emissions trading and other important measures to really move from symbolic policy at national level to effective international action. The truth at home is that people around our country are worried, but they fail – we see this in opinion support, if nothing else – several parties' environmental policies and the past government's environmental policy during these seven years. We in the Moderates and the Green Right stand for a policy that reduces emissions and secures growth and prosperity. Sweden has all the conditions to make the transition. Our stable energy supply, our forests and our technical know-how were some of the things that made Sweden rich once upon a time. We are building on these forces in moderate politics. We are committed to maintaining and developing our stable, clean electricity supply. We protect and develop forestry, and we invest in new and modern technology, including CCS technology, to help us cope with the transition. Sweden is the land of opportunity. It's time we showed it again.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-569	Madam President, I would like I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for her speech. Jessica Rosencrantz and I often debate together. We often meet business representatives who talk a lot about what the honourable Member mentioned in his speech, namely the right conditions for transition. Then we often talk about the importance of shortening permit processes. That's where I hear we're on the same page. We need to shorten the permit process in order to be able to make the decisions and deliver the necessary measures for climate change. But what do the Moderates do with the budget reservation? Yes, you are removing the investment that goes to the county boards' work on the regional climate transition. On a direct question to the authorities about what this is all about, we are told that it is a question of local and regional knowledge development. It is about action on the issue of impact. It's about work to draw power lines. It's about wind power strategy and electrification pilots. It is precisely those areas that I have understood that I and the honourable Member often agree are needed to cope with climate change and competition in business. Isn't this work important, according to the Moderates? What other efforts are you making in the budget to shorten the permit process?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-573	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Burwick for the important question. Permit processes are a huge challenge, and they are currently slowing the business world down from changing. In many cases, we know that it is not really resources that are the problem, but it is unpredictable and difficult to understand regulations that, in a modern context, do not reward climate work but see other perspectives as heavier. The county administrative boards have a total budget of SEK 3.57 billion. The fact that they are now losing 80 million will not be decisive for the success of the permit process. Rather, it is a problem that nothing has happened in seven years with this government. Investigations have been set up, but nothing has been done with them. In some cases, investigations have gone in the opposite direction. For example, an investigation would like to introduce more time-limited permits for companies. That, if anything, would create uncertainty. Who wants to invest if you risk getting rid of the condition in the near future? Sure, you can talk about money, but there's money on the county boards. There's not the whole problem in the transition. These are hard-to-understand regulations and state-of-the-art processes that drag on time. There are applications for mining operations that have been on the government's table for several years without the government even touching those processes. There are real problems there. The Moderates want to introduce clearer time requirements on how long it will take both ministries and authorities to obtain permits. We want to review some of the rules that currently overlap, where the EU has certain requirements and Sweden has others, which means that companies are measured according to completely different standards depending on regulations. We want permits for changes in more cases, for example, so that existing industries do not have to apply for the whole permit but simply apply to change the part they want to expand. There are some regulatory changes that need to be made for real.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-578	Madam President, I would like I take it that what the authority on a straight question says will affect the work does not seem important to the Moderates. Nuclear power is an important part of Swedish electricity production. We fully agree on that. At the same time, we need more electricity here and now. Expanding nuclear power takes time and becomes expensive, and we see that the willingness to invest is lacking. The willingness to invest is in renewable energy sources. If you are serious about extending nuclear power, then you have to use taxpayers' money for it, so my second question is: if this is the single most important issue for the Moderates, why do you not spend money in the budget on a full-scale effort? And when would a bet be ready, according to the Moderates? What year?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-581	Madam President, I would like The truth is that we do not trust what the government would do with that money if we had put it in a budget. If we had ruled and been in a government position, we would have had completely different opportunities to pursue our policies in all respects. But putting money in the hands of an S-MP government or now an S-government that basically does not share our ambition to expand nuclear power, we do not think that is a wise priority. In the Moderates' own budget, we spent funding on research to lay the foundations for the next generation of nuclear power, for example with a research reactor, during the next term of office. But we'll have to come back when we're in government. Marlene Burwick started by saying we're in agreement. We're not. After all, this government is doing absolutely nothing to protect or develop nuclear power. When we put forward initiatives in this House to extend one of Ringhal's reactors for life, the government refused to vote in favour of it. They refused to do anything. Today, we have an energy crisis in Sweden that the government seriously claims has nothing to do with the closure of fully functioning power generation. That's absurd, so we don't agree.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-585	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz mentioned what she called the energy crisis in her speech. I have a question connected to that. The background is this: The Swedish-Norwegian company Njordr is planning Sweden's largest wind farm outside the Stockholm archipelago. It would correspond to the entire Forsmark production. Svenska Hexicon is planning a large offshore wind farm outside Bohuslän. It would correspond to two Ringhal reactors, as the Moderates are concerned that they have closed down. Outside Trelleborg, a park is planned that would correspond to two thirds of the total existing power production in Skåne, which is suffering from very high electricity prices right now. These three parks are actively stopped or opposed by the Moderates. In total, the Moderates want to stop new wind power projects corresponding to almost 60 terawatt hours. That is much more than all Swedish nuclear power today. This has four consequences. It hits hard on the possibility of distancing fossils in the power system, which the Moderates tend to protect, not least in our neighbouring countries. It hits the business community hard, which needs cheap electricity to switch and to be competitive. It is hitting households hard, which are currently being tormented by very high electricity prices and which will not be able to get lower electricity prices if Moderate policies are allowed to continue. It is striking the opportunities for jobs and development throughout this country.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-594	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Lorentz for the question. Lorentz Tovatt mixes apples and pears as usual. There is much in the debate article that Mr Lorentz wrote, but also in what he said now that is simply not true. We can start with Trelleborg, for example. Trelleborg has agreed to build 165 wind turbines a bit further out to sea that would correspond to about half of Skåne's electricity needs. Then 16 wind turbines were rejected a little closer to the coast. Is that wind power resistance? Well, I wouldn't say that. On the other hand, wind power cannot be expanded anywhere. This is the case, and we are safeguarding the opportunity to think locally about the suitability of building wind power right there. I am rather concerned when I look at what the government is proposing. They want to go in the direction of making it more difficult for people to influence their environment and not give them the opportunity to like wind power. The truth is that wind power expansion is fast. It's something the Moderates affirm. Unlike the Green Party, however, we want to see both the expansion of wind power and the extension of nuclear power. We know that countries such as the United Kingdom and France are planning for new nuclear power in the 2020s towards 2030. It is also in the near future if you make the right investment decision. The responsible energy policy is to see the balance. The Green Party excludes, the hand of the heart, one of these two forces. I don't think that's serious. And with the energy policy of the Green Party and indeed the Social Democrats, we will not succeed in the transition. Although wind power is increasing, it cannot replace one third of today's energy production and, furthermore, the doubling that we need to move forward. We need both. Moderate municipalities in some cases say yes, in others no. We protect the opportunity to think locally. The question is why the Green Party wants to take that opportunity away from municipalities. I think that's a risk to confidence in the transition.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-602	Madam President, I would like In Gävleborg, the Moderates stop two large wind power projects at sea. They go further than that; they draw a red line around wind power as technology. We should not have wind power at all along our coast, they say. Sandviken, Finspång, Ånge, Hanöbukten, Kävlinge – in municipality after municipality, Moderaterna stops wind power that can reduce electricity costs for business and households. The Moderates have made it a parade branch to populistly talk about the price of electricity and what you call the energy crisis. But when it comes to actual policy, the quickest way to bring down the price of electricity, namely to expand wind power, is countered. Why do you do that if you think that the price of electricity is so important?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-605	Madam President, I would like Why does the Green Party rule out a whole battle if the climate is so important? The Moderates do not rule out any fossil-free energy. We see, as I said, a massive expansion of wind power, which we support. On the other hand, like the Green Party, we do not think that we should have billions of subsidies for offshore wind power and put that bill on consumers. That is what the expansion of offshore wind power is based on, so there are differences of opinion. We would like to see an increase in all these different power types, but we are in favour of not spending the cost of offshore wind power on taxpayers and of the opportunity to speak up and say something locally. We also think that there must be a balance. If we only have weather-dependent electricity production, it will be very unstable and very expensive, and then this energy crisis is just the beginning. So it is true that we do not want wind power everywhere. But we want more wind power, and we want it together with hydropower and nuclear power.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-611	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. It is a bit unusual for us to do so, but it is gratifying that we in three parties have managed to agree on a proposal together. Although this should be described as a light budget, it shows a clear direction. There is an increased focus on rural areas and on pensioners and more resources for the judiciary, to name but a few. It is a foretaste of the ambitions of the opposition parties. In this area of expenditure, this is an investment in rural areas, entrepreneurship and individual households, as we can now look forward to at least one year without greatly increased instruments on petrol and diesel. It is a question of pointing out a direction towards a more effective climate policy, where investment in charging infrastructure is strengthened and more funds are invested in bio-CCS. It is also a question of an increase in the ambition of growth and ownership in forestry. But as things stand today, with a Social Democratic government, it is not possible for the opposition to present a fully revised state budget. Therefore, there were many proposals that we want to implement that were not possible to include in this budget. Madam President, I would like The biggest change in this area of expenditure is in the forestry sector. This is something you want to paint from the Left as something dramatic – yes, as a slaughter. But nothing could be more wrong. It is simply a matter of leaving the appropriations at about the same level as the last, which is a record level. Our view is that, in the long term, we need to take stock of the forest. We're getting into an unmanageable situation. The Swedish forestry law has many years on its neck, but it is good. It is based on what Swedish forest ownership looks like. We do not, as other countries, have ownership that is completely dominated by the state, but we have hundreds of thousands of private forest owners in Sweden. This is something for which we should be grateful. Forest ownership is part of Swedish culture. It is also something that has led to forestry that is characterised by environmental considerations as well as growth and productivity. It's about freedom under responsibility. What we are seeing today is that the Social Democrats under the leadership of the Green Party are trying to turn large parts of Sweden into reservations. This has been done by politicians, before entering this Assembly in the SD, rashly setting visionary and unrealistic goals in terms of forests – or perhaps unrealistic in terms of how to define protected areas and endangered species. This has led to more and more forest being taken from individual forest owners and transformed into state control. Swedish politicians and authorities have also been the best in the world when it comes to narrowly defining protected areas so that it appears that we protect considerably less than we actually do. Madam President, I would like We need a round-up on the woods. We need to continue to protect high environmental values, but it is strange that this should always assume that more land needs to be protected. We need a flexible system in which land that is currently protected can return to production and be replaced by land with higher environmental values. Sweden has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to how we manage the forest, but I feel confident that we in Sweden can serve as an extremely good example for other countries. This is important to remember now that the European Commission sees Sweden as an exotic carbon sink up there in the north, which will help other countries not to reduce their emissions to the extent required. Madam President, I would like We are now heading towards the end of an eight-year period of social democratic government. What strikes you when it comes to the state of the environment is that, despite eight years of billions rolling in this area, it only gets worse if one is to believe in the tunes from the left. The state of biodiversity is apparently so serious that the opposition is threatening the state by establishing what is a record level in this area. We are no closer to achieving the various environmental objectives today than we were when the government took office. We have seen a focus on a policy of shut-down that makes it impossible to open mines anymore. Plans for new nuclear power have been stopped, and reactors have been shut down. We have a reality where the cement industry is threatened with shutdown, with a social crisis, and where the energy companies are now terrified of the environmental tests of hydroelectric power plants over the next few years and of causing widespread shutdowns there too. Environmental trials have become a bureaucratic monster. The government has taken a step back and devoted itself to watching and hopes that it will probably not be so bad anyway. This is a irresponsible policy that threatens both jobs and growth as well as climate change. Madam President, I would like The world faces major challenges in the field of climate change. Last year we saw reductions in emissions due to a massive fall in demand of a rare type due to covid. Nevertheless, emissions were reduced by only about 7%, and this year we see that emissions are increasing drastically in line with the recovery in the world economy. A couple of years ago, we thought the coal industry was almost over. Today we see that coal power is growing in the world. Countries of crucial importance, such as India, no longer have problems with how to phase out coal power. Their problem is that they cannot dig up enough pieces of coal fast enough to keep electricity running in households around the clock. Instead, they are forced to rotate due to a lack of coal raw material. The scarcity of raw materials underlines how basic the availability of cheap fossil-free energy is in order to make a transition. For while building more fossil-free energy than ever, this is not enough because it only partially covers new demand. Fossil energy remains at about the same proportion. Madam President, I would like Swedish climate policy often lacks contact with this reality. Instead, the debate is about a climate threat to reduce the tax on diesel somewhat – much like it is not enough that it is 3 – 4 SEK more expensive to refuel in Sweden than down in Europe. The discussions should be more about how we can make a difference. How can we combine emissions reductions with high growth and become an example to the outside world? Stagnated growth and energy crisis are probably not something that China, the United States, India or Russia are attracted by and might draw inspiration from. The discussion could be about how we can strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture, how we can start using those fallow fields and how we can produce climate-smart food in Sweden that can support our own population. It could be about how we through plant breeding and genetic engineering can reduce emissions from agriculture and how we through Swedish industry and increased exports can crowd out production from other countries and thereby reduce emissions in the world. And it could be about how, by investing in research and development of nuclear power, we can help to spread this amazing and environmentally friendly technology to more countries.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-631	Madam President, I would like Martin Kinnunen said in his speech that it is a light budget that has been passed and that we cannot expect a fully revised budget. But let us discuss in this change of line what one might look like. With less than ten years left on us to act to counter the climate crisis that we are experiencing, the Swedish Democrats are deducting the environmental and climate budget by over SEK 9 billion. Let it sink in – 9 billion. You are looking forward to protecting ordinary people and the opportunity to live in rural areas. But you're denying ordinary people support to change. When you remove the Climate Tree, the possibility of getting support for charging points disappears. And when you remove the possibility of receiving support when buying a climate bonus car, you will of course reduce the possibility of switching to electrification. Of the more than 4 million cars in Sweden, almost all are powered by petrol or diesel. Many of these vehicles will roll on the roads throughout the 2020s and some even after 2030. Measures are needed for these vehicles to become fossil-free as well. But when we ask for reduction or conversion support, the Swedish Democrats say no. What's the answer, Martin Kinnunen? How will ordinary people throughout Sweden be able to change with your politics?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-635	I would like to remind you that Members should speak through the President and not use the words
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-636	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Marlene Burwick's reply. Now there's a little bit of double practice here. We have a draft budget that we support and one that we have temporarily abandoned. But it is correct that we want to see other priorities in the state's environmental budget. It's a lot about us from the Swedish Democrats standing up for the green folk house that Göran Persson described in his time. It's about everyone joining in, in a responsible way. We're not gonna have the most expensive diesel in the world. The forest should grow; it should not be protected in large reserves. There's growth, and there's jobs. We're not going to have an electric price shock. It is the polluter who will pay, but today we see that private households' electricity bills increase by 100%. There is no reasonableness in this. Then nuclear power cannot be decommissioned. One cannot subsidise different types of energy in the way that the Social Democrats have done with wind power, for who will pay for the accession of all these huge offshore wind farms? It is a senseless billion-dollar roll that can be underway, and it is consumers who will have to pay for this on their electricity bills. It's not responsible.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-639	Madam President, I would like I note that the reply from the honourable Member is missing on how ordinary people throughout Sweden should be able to change. One of the main proposals in the current climate crisis is to increase emissions from traffic by reducing taxes on fuels. Instead of changing, the Swedish Democrats are prolonging our dependence on oil. After all, the large part of the reduction goes to motorists in the big cities, while politics for sparsely populated areas is being resisted. The truth is also that the efforts made in the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats are completely lost in the light budget that is now at the table of the Riksdag. My question to Martin Kinnunen, Madam President, is therefore: do the Swedish Democrats think that Sweden should take the climate threat seriously and live up to the Paris Agreement?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-643	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are definitely serious about the climate issue. Together, we must contribute to reducing emissions in the world, but Sweden is not crucial here. It is the emissions that run out in the rest of the world that we need to find ways to reduce. This involves investment in research and development. It is not a question of subsidising people's Tesla purchases. The electric car revolution is here, and it is not we politicians who either lead it, control it or can stop it, even if we want to. People will be asking for electric drive. When prices are at the right level, most people will probably drive around in an electric car. We do not have to subsidise car manufacturers in this regard. However, efforts must be made on effective measures, such as infrastructure. Charging infrastructure is fundamental to creating conditions, but we do not need to discount Tesla cars.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-645	Madam President, I would like Sweden is basically a good country to live in, but in some parts the development is going in the wrong direction. In terms of jobs, health care and security, Sweden is now placing itself in several important areas in the bottom of Europe. We have among the highest unemployment rates in Europe, we have the lowest proportion of care places per inhabitant in Europe and in no other European country do we see such a marked increase in deadly firearms violence. At the same time, Sweden is the third most police-like country in Europe. In our elongated country, the conditions for living and operating outside the big cities also need to be improved. The former S-MP government has not done what is necessary to reverse developments. We Christian Democrats have different priorities. We see the people behind the gloomy numbers. We see the patient in the care line. We see the unemployed person seeking support and a working community. We see families who experience insecurity in their residential areas and who really puzzle to get everyday life together. We see children who have lost communities and become sedentary and inactive during the pandemic. We see the lonely elderly and the stressed staff in the care of the elderly. We see the need for rural life to work. That is why we have presented a joint budget reservation that is beginning to reverse developments in some of the areas where there are major societal problems. To bring about a real change requires a new government, but we already want to do what we can to start the important re-priorities that are needed. These are re-priorities that will fight crime and provide more care places and care at the right time. It is investments for smaller groups of children, more money for civil society and priorities that do not put a dead hand over large parts of Sweden's countryside. Madam President, I would like Climate change is one of the most important issues of our time to solve. Emissions reductions must be significantly accelerated if climate targets are to be met. However, it is clear that the necessary measures to reduce emissions sufficiently quickly have not been taken. Measures to improve the environment and reduce emissions can go hand in hand with job creation and strong economic growth. This requires well-designed and effective instruments. As we have heard earlier in the debate, the polluter should pay for his environmental impact while renewable and environmentally friendly technologies can emerge. In this way, our actions deliver the greatest possible results for the environment. If we are to take the lead as a good example, we must take the lead in such a way that it attracts other countries to follow suit. It must be our great mission in the conversion work. Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions are less than 2 per mil of the world's total emissions. So, if all human activity in the country were to stop tomorrow, it would not be noticed in general terms on total emissions. That's why we need to use our scientists, our technicians, our inventors—yes, all our elaborate knowledge—to turn into a better world with sustained prosperity and prosperity and continued good growth. Madam President, I would like So the draft budget that won the majority in this House on 24 November is the biggest climate budget of all time. However, one should not always stare blindly at the numbers but look at what is actually behind them. If we had had the government's resources and more time, we would certainly have made more changes on the basis of the government's budget proposal, but there are still changes pointing to a direction that I mentioned in my introduction, a new direction that must be made for the country as a whole. In the transition to a fossil-free society, electrification plays a key role. The majority of Sweden's total emissions come from the industrial and transport sectors. The sectors want to take precedence here, and we must give them the right conditions for this. Unfortunately, our electricity crisis and the tremendously high electricity prices we are now seeing are putting major obstacles in the way of this. However, this is not exactly in our area of expenditure that we are debating here, but unless these problems are resolved it will not help what we put into electrification in the budget for general protection of the environment and nature, category 20. We in Sweden are in great need of investments in fossil-free charging and refuelling infrastructure for cars and trucks, among other things, in order to be able to switch the transport sector to fossil-free. So if we are to get more people to choose an electric car, we need to greatly expand the charging infrastructure. As regards the sale of electric cars, we note that our neighbour country in the west, Norway, has gone ahead and that the sale of new electric cars there has previously been high above Sweden. Motorists who drive electric cars have been given many advantages over others. Now there are so many who have bought an electric car that you have had to remove certain advantages, which means that more people start to look at their house again and think about what power source they should have. During last summer's holiday, there were some charging stations in the Norwegian Sørlandet waiting time of ten hours to charge their electric car. We cannot have bottlenecks of this kind if we are to get more people to choose an electric car. It is not the case that you drive a car for ideological reasons and can therefore accept such long waiting periods. You drive a car to get from point A to point B, and then it has to work. In our budget option, we set aside more funds than the government to provide support for fossil-free charging and refuelling infrastructure, which should be technologically neutral. Furthermore, we need to take new steps and take greater steps to switch over to heavier transport. Therefore, we must quickly take steps towards and keep the focus on regional networks and coherent paths between Sweden's major cities, where most transport goes. The support shall also be technologically neutral here and shall be capable, inter alia, of being used for electricity, electric roads and hydrogen stations. Madam President, I would like Investing in large-scale development of carbon capture and storage technologies, CCS and bio-CCS, are effective ways to help reduce emissions. The technology has great potential and should therefore be expanded. Unfortunately, the government has not responded to this at the level needed. The moderation of appropriations for reverse auctions risks driving prices up in an unfortunate way, and so the potential cannot be fully exploited. In order to change up this work, we will increase the funding to the Swedish Energy Agency so that they can prepare for an increased use of bio-CCS and review how CCS can be implemented in Sweden as a whole. The companies are waiting, but the government is waiting for the answers. Finally, Madam President, I would, of course, like to devote some time to the forest and to the proposals of the forestry inquiry. Yesterday we had a debate in this House on the EU's forestry strategy. I was then angry at the European Union's infinity as to how the Swedish forest should be managed and managed. In today's debate, it is rather domestic dangers that lurk, not least in the proposals presented by the Swedish Forest Investigation, eagerly imposed by some parties in the Swedish Parliament. Should the whole of Sweden work is one of the prerequisites for more jobs to be created in the green industries. It is about strengthening the conditions for entrepreneurship and trade and competitiveness so that more jobs are created. The more products that can be labeled with... Made in Sweden, the better it is from many perspectives, not least from an environmental and climate perspective. The forest industry is Sweden's largest net exporter, and that industry, if any, contributes to the transformation, if we want a real transition. The Budget Bill's proposal to increase the funding by over 2 billion in order to implement the Forest Investigation's proposal to exempt large areas of mountain forest from cultivation has been removed. Already today, 57% of the mountain forest is protected. In addition, the forest investigation's proposals are in direct conflict with the increased demand for forest raw materials needed to reset, for real. Politics should not be the party that threatens Sweden's opportunities to reach the climate targets. Instead of exempting more forest from farming and thus punishing ordinary honest forest owners, the state should ensure that the forest already expropriated in different ways. If forest is to be protected, this should be done on a voluntary basis. In Norway, there were similar conflicts that we have around the forest until the transition was made to the voluntary protection of forests. Then the level of conflict became quite different. It went down to a minimum, and the parties are satisfied with the state of affairs. We should come there too, but if we are to get there, it is clear that a new government is needed. Madam President, I would like I would like to wish the President, the Presidium of Presidents, the Chamber, the secretariat of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture and the members of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture a really happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-666	Madam President, I would like I think that many Swedes are currently thinking about what to buy for Christmas gifts. This year I think there are many people who think more about the climate when they want to trade. Perhaps you want to buy fewer things, or maybe you want to avoid things made from plastics and products made from fossil raw materials. At least I want more climate-smart products, also from the forest. I want more wooden building. I want clothes of forest raw material. I want smarter packaging and more. But I do not want those products to be made from endangered species or to be produced at the expense of endangered species. I want it to be green products straight through. That is also why we must ensure that we have better work for biodiversity in Sweden. Today's forestry is not sustainable, and society's set environmental goals Living forests and a rich plant and animal life are not achieved. At present, cirk a 1 800 forest species are included on the red list of endangered species. There is a lack of compliance with end-of-life effects. Sweden needs a forestry policy that takes account of climate change and prevents the climate crisis and the natural crisis. The Green Party is seeking a forestry policy with high ambitions for the protection of areas, for the conservation of plant and animal species and for the preservation of the most valuable nature. As a minimum, we need to comply with decisions taken under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. Through the Nagoya Protocol, Sweden has committed itself to the sustainable management of areas used for forestry, in order to ensure the conservation of biodiversity. We can say that we have not succeeded, but we have worked hard to improve. Unfortunately, there are parties here in Parliament that have put serious obstacles in the way. One of the Environmental Party's most prioritised issues is that forest owners who contribute to nature conservation work and who protect forests and manage nature conservation forests should receive a better and more reasonable remuneration. We need to allocate more funds to nature value inventories and advice to forest owners and use state-owned land, so that forest owners can continue forestry while saving the most valuable old forests and forests with high natural values. We know that 700 forest owners in Sweden are waiting for compensation for nature reserves that they have already voluntarily made agreements with the authorities. There was money in the Red Green Government's budget for their compensation. In government positions, the Green Party has contributed tremendously. I must mention climate law and efforts on everything from the circular economy to more nature conservation. As Mr Lorentz Tovatt said earlier in the debate, the Green Party has increased its funding from 5 billion to 20 billion. If you are going to be able to implement a protection of mountain forests – if the forest owners want and when the forest owners want – in accordance with the direction of the forest bill, the money must be there. They are not in the budget that we are discussing here today. They are wiped out by clumsy Moderates, Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats, who believe that it strengthens property rights by removing compensation to forest owners. In order to strengthen owners' rights, they provide compensation for the conservation services they contribute to forestry. It does not benefit forestry or nature conservation to take away money for forest owners. It does not strengthen Swedish forestry, and it does not strengthen the possibilities to export Swedish forest products in the future. Consumers want to buy environmentally friendly products because they are climate-smart but also because they meet biodiversity objectives. Madam President, I would like I would like to wish the entire Presidium of the President Merry Christmas. I would also like to wish a Merry Christmas to the Chamber Registry and to our fine secretariat in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture and, of course, to all my colleagues in the committee. I have a wish for next year, 2022: that we save the eel. We can start now for Christmas. The eel is an endangered species. 98% of the European eel has disappeared. It is fishing and hydropower that are the real major problems. The eel must be protected, and it should not be on the Christmas table. Merry Christmas!
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-677	Madam President, I would like It feels like a deja vu from last night. At least I can start by promising Maria Gardfjell that I won't eat eel at Christmas, but it's for completely different reasons than perhaps those of Maria Gardfjell imagined. There were quite a few things to deal with here. I would like to start with one of the first points raised by Maria Gardfjell. She wants to buy Christmas presents made sustainable, preferably made of wood. We'll build more wood, absolutely. We're gonna make clothes out of wood and maybe smart packaging too. But at the same time, we will protect more and more. I have quoted my good friend Nalle earlier in the speaker's chair, but in Norwegian. Since I live where I live, I have also read some Nalle in Norwegian. When asked if he wants to have a scorn or milk for dinner, he says: Yes, thank you, both! That is also what Maria Gardfjell says here. We will make more of the forest and use the forest for clothing, for construction and to replace fossil plastic. At the same time, the forest should be protected. Yes, please, both of them! How does this logic go together, Maria Gardfjell? How are we going to do this when the desire to protect more and more forest is so great?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-681	Madam President, I would like No one is happier than me that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson should have no eel on the Christmas table. We thank you for that. And Pooh is also one of my house gods and fun to read, actually. I would like to say that the answer to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's question is that we in Sweden need a circular bioeconomy strategy. We don't have a strategy in place yet. We've been discussing it for a long time. It was also part of the January agreement. We have different opinions. One of the lines that the Green Party is pushing is to get a significant emphasis on the circular. By increasing the proportion of long-lasting products among wood-based products, we will also have a larger amount of raw materials that can be circulated. It can be recycled, and in this way we can maximise the withdrawal of what we actually fell from the forest, so that it is not wasted too early in the life of the products. You can take prima wood and make toilet paper out of it right away. Then it has a very short life span. But you can also first build houses and use the wood for more long-lasting products before it becomes toilet paper at a later stage. In this way, we increase the amount of raw materials available for our industries. At the same time, we need sustainable forestry, and above all, we need forestry where regrowth is good.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-686	Madam President, I would like I am not going to mention the discussion we had yesterday about toilet paper, to use Maria Gardfjell's expression. I'll leave it. I fully agree with Maria Gardfjell on the circular approach and the bioeconomy strategy. Absolutely, it's great. But here I still don't get the math to go together. The other part that I was going to ask a question about is property rights. I note some wordings that come from the Green Party where property rights are often equated with money. But property rights are not primarily about money. Ownership and use rights are just about ownership and use rights. What you own, you manage and you use to the best of your ability. It's ownership – not that the state points to the whole fist and says: You can't do this, but you get a penny! It is not property rights; it is compensation. And compensation absolutely needs to be paid. Ownership is part of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Ownership is part of the European Convention. Ownership rights are included in the Swedish Constitution. I think that the Green Party shows, time and again, a very liberal relationship with ownership when it is such an important thing that is included in these important documents. Does the Green Party not take ownership seriously when it is simply talking about compensation? Ownership is not just about compensation; it is about you being allowed to use what you have, have inherited, received or bought. Maybe it's been generation after generation, and you've been doing it year after year for you to harvest and get a return. All of a sudden, the carpet is torn away. But you'll get some compensation. Is that ownership, Maria Gardfjell?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-692	Madam President, I would like Ownership is constitutionally protected. The Green Party absolutely believes that ownership is important. But property rights are not unlimited. The forest investigation deals with ownership in a very good way and reviews in detail how ownership is affected. We also have legislation that we have decided on here in the Swedish Parliament, including the Environmental Code. It affects how forest owners should farm their land. Ownership is not unrestricted. Alleman's rights are also constitutionally protected. There's plenty of forest to cover. The forest should be sufficient for all the products we have talked about, and forestry is an important industry in the forest. But the forest is also important for the tourism industry, for the reindeer industry, for outdoor life and for many other purposes. It is important for producing other types of products. Finland has forests that produce raw materials for the pharmaceutical industry. This is not where the forest is harvested, but it can take out certain types of products from the forest. There is a need for more varied forestry in Sweden where we get greater benefits, greater climate benefits and more products. Most important in this is all the people who live in Sweden and who have a relationship with the forest, but also the forest owners. The 300 000 forest owners are extremely important for Sweden, because I believe that with increased profitability, with increasing support for nature conservation and with more sustainable forest management that is climate-friendly, forest owners will also be a more important part of the fight for a saved climate.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-698	Madam President, I would like There may be some repetition in the debate. Maria Gardfjell spoke so focusedly about forestry policy, and I would also like to dwell on that. I can first say that it must taste a little strange in the mouth of an environmental party to talk property rights, because I do not think that has happened before in this House. I agree with my colleague on the previous line that it is clear that we define property rights in very different ways. The right to receive compensation when the state takes something away from you should be quite fundamental, but this is not the protection of property rights. Protecting should be to see what the more than 300 000 private forest owners already contribute to production in forestry, but also in terms of natural considerations and affirming it and allowing it to continue. That's real property right. I can also say that it is a huge focus on these 2 billion, but it is not pretended that there are 1.7 billion in the budget to protect additional nature. But somewhere there must be a push for the ambition to remove forests from production, right? Maria Gardfjell spoke hotly to build houses and so on. But the truth is, this policy doesn't add up no matter how much you talk about reuse, reuse and whatever it may be. If we are to phase out fossil fuels, we will need more products from the forest. Then we will need forestry. Already today, between a quarter and a third of all forests are excluded from use in different ways. How much does the Green Party want it to increase with? The forest investigation suggested that an area corresponding to the whole of Västmanland should be excluded from use. The Green Party has previously said that the protected forest must be doubled. How much area does the Green Party want to decommission, and is there an upper limit?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-705	Madam President, I would like I said in my speech that the Green Party is seeking a forestry policy with high ambitions in terms of the protection of areas of valuable nature. As a minimum, we need to follow the decisions taken under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and the decisions taken in the EU and in Sweden that govern us, quite simply. We're not there today. We are at a 5% level approximately of formally protected land. The figures that Jessica Rosencrantz refers to are therefore more taken out of the air – a kind of napkin sketch for the protection of our nature perhaps. As regards the question of how much the Green Party wants to protect and how much money is needed, I think what Jessica Rosencrantz said about the fact that it is fundamental that forest owners receive compensation when they contribute to nature conservation was very good. However, if it is so fundamental, I do not understand why it is taking SEK 2 billion out of the budget when this money would go to this fundamental right to compensation. When it comes to mountain forests, we have a court order that the state must pay compensation to forest owners if they are not allowed to fell. These judgments mean that we need to increase the state budget in order to actually be able to pay these compensations. That is precisely why these 2 billion are needed.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-709	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why our budget contains exactly the same appropriations as the budget proposal to replace landowners who are denied felling uphill forests. It is exactly the same level of funding. Madam President, I would like It is no wonder that, as Maria Gardfjell puts it, an increasing number of forest owners are interested in entering into agreements with the state when they do so under the gallows. They know that the alternative is for the state to do it anyway. We basically believe that there is every possibility for private forest owners to carry out conservation activities under voluntary forms in their own forestry – production and nature considerations hand in hand. I find it interesting that although the Green Party in its speeches sounds like forestry is incredibly important, it nevertheless comes to the conclusion that it is the top priority to protect more, not to find ways of combining this. We know that a number of our environmental objectives today are unrealistic in that, if they were to be achieved as they are written, it would basically mean that we have to stop all forestry. Anyone who is serious about saying that we should protect both these perspectives cannot therefore have the only solution that we should take away private forest owners their land and that the state should manage it better, which the state does not. We have seen reports from both the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that protected areas are not maintained. It would have been necessary to devote resources and time to something, in other words to actually take care of protected areas. As it is right now, the state is protecting more and more. It is an enormous focus on quantity and on protecting additional areas but not on taking care of the natural values that already exist in these protected areas. This eventually causes them to mature. In the worst case, spruce bark and other things can be spread to nearby private landowners. Unfortunately, it sounds very false when the Green Party says that they want to protect forestry and protect so much more forest. It's not gonna work.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-717	Madam President, I would like I agree with Jessica Rosencrantz. The Green Party may speak far too little about forestry. It is incredibly important that we do this because we need sustainable forestry. We need more clean forestry and more farming methods that are more close to nature. In some parts of Norrland we need to have a little sparser pine forests with more lichen, so that the reindeer industry benefits more. We need adapted and adaptive forestry. We need to talk about this much more in the Green Party because many people have been given the impression that we do not want forestry at all. That's wrong. However, we also want to ensure that old forests, prime forests and the absolute finest biotopes found in Swedish forests are protected. We want to do that in an effective and good way. In the agreement we made with the Social Democrats and the Center Party on the Forest Bill, the very point was to do this together with the landowners – not to work with coercion as a method. The fact is that Swedish authorities have not done so up to now either. Agreements have been the most common. But we also put an extra finger on the fact that forest owners should not have to get rid of their land and give it to the state without them being able to keep and own their land even though they get the money. They can also use the forest, take wood, and take timber to build a small house. These are new forms of conservation that have been developed in the negotiations we have had with the Center Party, and they should be acknowledged and not rejected.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-724	Madam President, I would like There are some things I would like to clarify with Mr Gardfjell. First of all, the Green Party often talks about the unsustainable forestry that we have in Sweden. There is rarely talk of what is untenable. If it is argued that the Swedish forestry that we have today – one of the world's most sustainable, if not the most sustainable, in the world – is unsustainable, we must also explain why. All the key figures are going in the right direction whether we're talking about voluntary or formally set aside protected land or whether we're talking about deadwood. If we look at redlisted forest species, there are very few that are in a worse position. Some are rare either because the strain is small or because it is a species that is rare in Sweden, although there are populations elsewhere in Europe. What is so untenable? This is far too bad to talk about. Instead they talk down one of the most sustainable forestry in the world. The second part has already been mentioned. It concerns precisely the budget line that we are actually talking about that has been raised year after year. The question is why it must be raised year after year. We fully agree that people who get their land claimed for nature reserves should receive compensation. But does Mr Gardfjell not agree that the most sensible system is that before creating nature reserves you know that you have the money, that you have a management plan and that you have a financing plan for how this is to be done in the long term? As we have talked about before, the state of the environment does not improve just because we are formally protecting something. It's about what we do with it. The question is why this budget line should be increased. Last but not least, the Green Party often repeats a monumental factual error that we must tackle. It's not like someone's making toilet paper out of prime wood. There's not one actor who does. Dass paper we make of pulpwood that we get out of forestry. We don't just do toilet paper, we do a lot of other things – clothes, wet textures and so on. But there's no one who can wipe his ass with an old wooden house.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-730	Madam President, I would like This is a fun debate, I think. You have to laugh a little. Maybe some oak has become toilet paper after all. As far as unsustainable forestry is concerned, I am actually a little sad that Magnus Ek was not in the debate yesterday that we had in this House when we talked about the EU's forestry strategy. I mentioned three examples of why Swedish forestry is currently experiencing enormous sustainability problems. One is regrowth. We have received reports during the autumn from the Swedish Forest Agency that show that there are huge areas of young forests in northern Sweden that are dying. It's about the turgeon fungus, but it's also about a dozen other fungi. In addition, there are, of course, problems with elk injuries and some other things. The fact that we have such a large regrowth problem is a huge problem for forestry. What is said in the report submitted by the Authority is that the methods used in forestry cannot be continued in order to achieve and cope with this, but other measures will be required. What we are talking about is that you simply get to drive up leaves in these areas to see if there is any forest at all. This is not sustainable. Another issue that is not sustainable is addressed in a report that we recently received from MSB and the Swedish Forest Agency, which shows that we are experiencing enormous problems withslides, race and floods due to forestry. This is about billions. It's not sustainable.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-735	Madam President, I would like Then you can ask yourself how the injuries are handled. We know that we have increased forest damage. As far as grazing damage is concerned, we have the problem that last year, in a similar debate in this House, Maria Gardfjell's colleague claimed that hunting was morally unsustainable and something we would not do – the wolf could well manage the wild boar tribe. This type of speech does not help us with the problems. Instead, what we have to do is to make sure that we actually have to manage our forest according to our own head, because if we do, we will be able to deal with the damage that is caused. In addition to what Maria Gardfjell herself mentioned, we have, for example, the spruce bark drill injuries, where we know that we sometimes have problems removing the forest that is damaged. We also know that it is getting worse because the county boards and those who manage the nature reserves are too slow to remove the forest damage, so that we get increased damage because of it. There is nothing in the changes that Maria Gardfjell and the Green Party claim that we would have to make that would have made these problems easier; on the contrary, they would have made them worse. This is what is the problem when we claim that Swedish forestry is unsustainable in terms of routineity: we are not looking at the facts. Every time we move power away from those who use the forest – those who live with the forest and know what it looks like – we rely on there to be an official somewhere else who knows better. And believe me, Madam President, it does not. Just look at the facts. Although we would like officials to deal with this, they do not have the resources to do so and will never be able to do so. This is too large and too forest-rich a country for us to delegate power over use to a small number of government officials. It must be the case that we protect freedom under responsibility, not only for the forestry sector and not only for us to cope with the climate change, but also for us to actually manage to maintain the natural values.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-740	Madam President, I would like I would like to insist that the knowledge of forest owners is important. For example, the vast majority of forest owners have knowledge of where they have forests, what the forest looks like, when they intend to harvest them and such things. However, not all forest owners have knowledge of everything that concerns their forests. For example, it is not that I as a forest owner or Magnus Ek as a forest owner know exactly if we have any endangered little lichen in our forests. I am extremely grateful that in the negotiations of the Center Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, we found that advice is needed for forest owners. Natural inventories are needed, as the authorities do, and advice is needed to enable forest owners to gain this knowledge and to take it into account when taking important decisions such as protection of nature, management of forests or whether they are going to make certain types of efforts in forestry to protect nature. The money for advice to forest owners and protection of nature that actually existed in this budget is gone now. It is because the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats presented a budget that the Center Party indirectly supported.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-743	Madam President, I would like We have listened to a lively debate, sometimes funny, in which the various parties have been able to present their draft budgets on the issues relating to climate, the environment and nature. The fact that opinions differ may not surprise us, but the report actually contains a passage in which we agree across party boundaries. This is when it comes to analysing and looking at the government's profit and loss account, which applies to the financial statements for 2020. Now we also have representatives from the Committee on Industry in this House, and this is actually a follow-up that the form of government obliges all committees to do. But within the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, it has been a tradition to invoke and tell a little about it when we discuss the budget. The purpose of the follow-up is, above all, to be able to analyse and see whether the government has carried out what we have asked for and whether the efforts that have been made have actually had an effect. So there is a good thought. In the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, as in other committees, it is a special group that has had the task of dealing with this. This year we have looked at four areas in particular. There are 16 environmental quality targets in Sweden, and we have reviewed 4 of them a little extra. These are the objectives which actually govern environmental and natural policy, and they were decided on back in 1999. It was a brave decision... and rather far-sighted. Today we talk a lot about Agenda 2030, but this is still what guides Swedish policy. Despite what I say about the forward-looking approach, this also shows how slow it is, because of the 16 different objectives, there are 14 objectives we do not achieve. It is a challenge we must tackle and actually try to solve. There are also 9 interim targets that would have been completed and incorporated into activities by 2020. Of them, only 4, that is, less than half were reached. It's not a great conclusion for us. There are a few challenges that we need to address, but which still give a positive picture that we are on the way. This applies, among other things, to the advanced treatment of waste water, where we see the tendency for pharmaceuticals to be reduced in discharges into water and the environment. That's good. Another issue for which we must take a little more responsibility is contaminated areas. It looks particularly at those who are deemed to be at great risk to man and the environment, and there you can see that of the known objects – 9 000 today – 73% remains to go to. Seventy-three percent! We see that the number of reported findings of invasive alien species has quadrupled since 2019. Unfortunately, we also see a decrease in the proportion of arable land used, as well as the number of grazing cattle and sheep, and the reduction continues. My speaking time is up, but I will say that what we want to focus on and pass on in particular is that we need to become much more result-oriented. We should not just present and look at measures but actually see what has an effect and what we believe is beneficial. We also need to have much more of a holistic approach, because these 16 national environmental objectives go a long way. We need to be better at prioritizing and talking to each other. As last words, Madam President, I would like to thank everyone in the evaluation group who is very committed to these issues.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-753	Madam President, I would like I'm just going to talk about forests, because Martin Kinnunen of our party has already talked about the spending area of general nature and environmental protection on behalf of SD. We have the world's most sustainable forestry in Sweden, perhaps together with Finland. It might be good to keep in mind. There must be finances, but there must also be environmental protection – and there must be social functions. We have an all-man right; we pick berries, we pick fish from the lakes if the fishing goes well for us, we hunt and we walk. We are nevertheless able to retain our species in forestry. We have almost no species that die out due to forestry, and those who do so are actually at the bottom of the southernmost part of the country and are species associated with oaks and other deciduous trees. These are not species in northern Sweden. At least there are species close to the mountains, because there we have huge protected areas. This is the area in Sweden where we have the most protected forests, and we have had it since 1909 when the first national parks were established in our country. Earlier in the debate, it was mentioned that 57% of the forests in this area are already protected. 62% of the country's formally protected forests are found in this area. So there is still a small amount of forests that are not formally protected but are almost always denied logging rights. It is notifiable on felling and licensing on a lot of things in this area, so it is very difficult to get felling. We would like to review the rules on how we should deal with the different criteria for nature protection, because it feels like a forest owner is not in a position to guess in advance whether or not he will be allowed to fell. In this particular area, it often seems that we do not get it, even though that is where we have already been most protected. That's not very good. If we had implemented the proposal contained in the Forest Assessment, then another huge area would be protected in the area where we have protected the most forest. It is very difficult to understand which species would benefit from it. There is no species that would be prevented from dying out as a result. Prio should have been somewhere else, and I will come back to that a little bit. But what happens if you take down the very last thing? In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, pending a proposal that was thought to have been approved on the proposal of the Swedish Forest Investigation Authority regarding this giant reserve, has already made preliminary arrangements with some forest companies for them to abandon their forest there and get other forest in another location. In addition, agreements have been made on land changes with common forests that cause them to stop farming there but get new forests elsewhere. This means that the forest owners who remain up there will have much more difficulty in finding planters, harvesters and forwarders. It is likely that there will be no sawmill there, making it more difficult for them to find a market. They will also find it harder to find trucks. It won't be profitable anymore. We think this is the wrong focus. The functioning area is very important for tourism. A functioning area means that there are farmers who still use their forest and that there are pastures and fields. I stood here once – I think it was a year ago, before this debate had really started – and told about Snorre Sturlasson who wrote in the 1230s about how Olof the Holy One travelled through Jämtland and was received by Scandinavian speakers. It's a very old village, and it's worth preserving. There are much greater threats to the open, used landscapes in this mountain area than to the forest that is already the most protected we have. It's hard for me to see the meaning of it. Much has already been said today, and I do not know whether to go on for much longer. I suppose the most interesting thing will be the debate. I think maybe I should stop here, but I would like to add something about southern Sweden. What is really needed is that we review, and here I think we are fairly in agreement, nature conservation agreements where every year you can get a livelihood as a forest owner to manage your forest a little differently, not least to protect noble leaf forests and deciduous trees. We can look at which species have actually died out. Maria Gardfjell of the Green Party spoke of 1,800 red-listed species. That means we have 1,800 species that are considered rare. Probably most of them have always been rare in Sweden and will always be rare. It is not poverty in nature to have red-listed species, but it shows that we still have these rare species. The interesting thing is which species have died out, and then we can see that medium-pecker and black stork are forest species in the coniferous forest area that have died out or at least come and gone and currently do not breed in Sweden. The rest of the extinct forest species are species that lived in Blekinge, Halland, Skåne and to some extent on Gotland. This problem is a non-problem. Of course, if you find endangered species on a land, you have to wait for the felling and figure out what to do about it. But that is a completely different matter from protecting giant areas where we already have huge and protected areas. Merry Christmas to all of you – to Parliament's office, to MJU's office and to all colleagues!
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-770	Madam President, I would like It has been a challenging mandate, not only because we have a difficult parliamentary situation, but mainly because the world and Sweden are struggling to master a pandemic. From time to time, all the effort and focus has been put on combating the spread of infection, safe care and care places and saving businesses, jobs and the economy. Innumerable additional budgets have been presented, and the current year's budget was historic in scope. And it's not over yet. While we see a strong economic recovery, not least in Sweden, the spread of infection is now taking off again in many countries. In Denmark, a new record is recorded for the infected per day, Norway has the fastest increase in infection in Europe and in Sweden the infection is increasing, albeit from low levels. Country after country prepares for new restrictions. Expectations and political demands are rightly high. We're going to save lives, businesses, jobs and finances, not once, not twice, but as many times as it takes. And we should look forward, be persistent, learn from the crisis, fix breaks in welfare and build society stronger and better for the future. That is our task, our command. And it was on that basis that the Social Democratic-led government put its budget for 2022 on the table of Parliament. It is a budget that focuses on re-launching the economy, securing well-being and creating jobs and growth throughout the country. It is a budget characterised by the pandemic and its challenges, but also by opportunities. Because when we build society stronger and better, we will also build it more fairly. We're going to close gaps between people and between city and country. And we are going to build climate smart, because in the shadow of the pandemic we have a climate crisis that is increasingly coming to light with extreme weather in the form of droughts, torrential rains and hurricanes. It is a climate crisis that also costs lives and threatens businesses, jobs and the economy. It is a climate crisis that means that the whole world must change and become more sustainable. In this transformation, Sweden can and will be the leader, not only because we have competence, innovation power and companies at the forefront, but also because we have an obligation to future generations and because it is smart. It is the job of the future, and we want to see them develop here, because it means jobs and growth in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The aims, ambitions and responsibility of the Social Democrats for Sweden are clear. We want to strengthen welfare, reduce gaps, deal with the pandemic and climate crisis and invest in jobs and transition. What the opposition wants more than to create disorder is more unclear. In the general political debate we can note an increasingly heated rhetoric where leading representatives of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in particular claim that Sweden needs a new course. However, it is unclear exactly what it is. It is also believed that it is reasonable to break principles and practices, which over the years served Sweden well, in order to get to this change of course. Indirectly, they deny responsibility for the proper functioning of our democratic processes. They choose to move away from their own budget movements in the parliamentary treatment of the budget and instead negotiate an alternative to the government's budget, which they may well base on corresponds to the lowest common denominator for the change of course that they think Sweden needs. It is a change in course that turns out to correspond to a redistribution of the government's budget of less than 2%. This, Madam President, is irresponsible. It raises the question of how to deal with accountability in the new practices now being developed by Moderates, Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats in the future. But, Madam President, also 2% obviously has implications for the area of expenditure concerned. We are dealing here today with Category 24, Enterprise, foreign trade, exports and investment promotion. It is an area that, with the new framework, decided by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, receives SEK 90 million less than with the Government's proposal. This is regrettable, as the major challenges facing society require a multi-faceted and in-depth collaboration between industry, universities and colleges, civil society and public actors. In addition, the need for green change, digital restructuring and long-term skills provision has increased and must, in my opinion, be strategically important areas of industrial policy. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats choose to cut back on these areas. Important initiatives such as competence.now, the robot lift and the digital shift cannot now be completed – something that affects thousands of companies. Regulatory simplification, energy supply and tourism are also important areas where the government works strategically. To name a few examples, the government is now developing an electrification strategy to get a comprehensive grip on the expansion and distribution of electricity throughout the country. And historic efforts are being made to expand core networks and transmission capacity. A committee directive has been adopted for a study to review the current environmental assessment system and propose the changes needed to achieve a more modern and efficient environmental assessment. A directive has been issued for a study to review trial processes and regulatory frameworks for the sustainable supply of innovation critical metals and minerals. And in September of this year, 2021, the government submitted the letter A simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation capacity at Parliament's table. It has also launched a strategy for sustainable tourism and a growing tourism industry, which has long been in demand from the industry, which together with border trade is and has been particularly hard hit during the pandemic. This is a sample of the work that is being done and which is affected in the report. And for the sake of fact, it should be mentioned that energy is an area of its own expenditure which was dealt with in this House last week. There are, of course, more areas which are outside this report but which are important for the development and adaptability of business and which in some cases are affected by the re-priorities of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. Matching services and labour market training are clear examples that are now at risk of decreasing or disappearing altogether. It is difficult to understand the logic of this in a situation where the lack of personnel with the right skills is deemed to be a growth barrier for virtually all sectors throughout the country. But worth mentioning is also ill-considered reductions in climate and digitalisation, which means that we risk having problems getting our money back from the recovery fund. There have been proposals for alternative solutions, but it was immediately observed that two out of three solutions cannot be used. The conclusion to be drawn from this management of the budget is that there is no clear change in course, at least no agreement is reached. The consequences are manageable in terms of the economy but possibly unmanageable in terms of the continued democratic processes. Finally, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-787	Madam President, I would like In this area of expenditure, we have a total budget of just over SEK 9 000 million. We make an adjustment of SEK 90 million, i.e. barely 1 percent reduction. In political rhetoric, it is often the small details that are portrayed as the dramatic dividing line between worthy civilization and brutal barbarism. We note that there are different attitudes from the Social Democracy. The Prime Minister says that there are changes in the margin and that she can run the country based on our budget. The party secretary of the Social Democrats says: I'm pissed off when I read the draft budget that M, KD and SD have come forward with. The parts they managed to agree on are what are bad for ordinary people, he said. What, then, is so dangerous about increased police salaries, a national health agency to shorten queues, proposals to eradicate cervical cancer or proposals to reduce taxes on pensioners? That is my question today.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-791	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for the question. I note that the issue is not about what we are debating today, namely Category 24, business. But of course I'll still answer. I think that Camilla Brodin may not have listened to my speech. It is not the adjustment of the margin that is the problem, not the substance. They can be handled. As Camilla Brodin herself says, the change in this area of expenditure is less than 1%. What you can think about then is why it was so urgent to break common practices and principles, which have served Sweden well for a long time, to get to these changes with the motive that Sweden must have a change of course. It is difficult not to see that these proposals are a little bit more or a little less of something that is already on Parliament's table. In addition, more than 98% of the budget is accepted as a need for an emergency change of course. What you do is you play with the democratic processes. It also puts itself in a situation where it will be difficult or possibly impossible to rule in minority governments. And as the parliamentary situation and the polls look at the moment, there is much to suggest that we will have many such governments or many similar parliamentary results as we are currently having. Then all parties, whether in government or in opposition, must be prepared to assume their responsibilities for the situation. The Christian Democrats do not, the Moderates and not the Swedish Democrats do. They are so tempted that they can cause confusion and mess with the principles. I think it is a very dangerous path, and that is what deserves the great criticism in this context.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-795	Madam President, I would like I thank Jennie Nilsson for her reply. It cannot be a threat to democracy that we all put each party's budget and then come forward with a joint budget reservation, which also gets the Parliament's say and goes through. We are doing this because we see that the development that we are seeing at the moment is problematic. We take the day in and day out the chance to debate what needs to be changed, so that we really get on the right foot. What I miss in this area of expenditure are proposals from the government that make a difference, such as proposals for regulatory changes that should have been implemented long ago. Today, companies pay more than 1 billion a year in increased administrative costs. We believe that there is a need for a coherent action plan with clearly measurable objectives and reduced regulatory burden on businesses. You've had seven years. What is happening in this area?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-798	Madam President, I would like What is so dangerous is that you do not ensure that Sweden can be controlled. It overturns previous principles without having agreements on new principles. It's irresponsible, immature and dangerous. As a matter of fact, when you look at the parts that are presented in the change that is being made, they can be handled. It's a little bit more or a little less of what the government already does. Camilla Brodin says: A proposal that has received Parliament's approval. That's not said either. Although we are used to dealing with the fact that we have minority governments seeking a majority relationship in Parliament, this approach has a minority in this House that has pushed through its proposals because other parties have tried to stick to practice. It is deeply undemocratic. I think that the Christian Democrats need to examine and act on these issues. It's not worthy of a party like yours.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-802	Madam President, I would like I pressed for a line, because when I listened to Jennie Nilsson's speech, I heard nothing about the Swedish Agency for Growth. From our side, we have baffled through proposals in the Riksdag that this should not lead to tougher measures for companies that have made minor errors in connection with short-term support. They've been in a lot of trouble along the way during the pandemic. The latest problem with the Swedish Agency for Growth is that up to 6 000 companies are not registered so that you can reconnect with them. It is a very serious situation that you do not know which companies they are. I wonder how to deal with it now from the government's side. There must surely be a dialogue with the Swedish Agency for Growth, which has, time and again, made a real difference for companies that would be protected during the past period and also in the future. The question is also asked: What are the plans? Jennie Nilsson mentioned very much that the pandemic could come back. Are you ready now? Have you taken on the task of synchronising business support with a new wave that can come, and do you have a dialogue with the Swedish Agency for Growth to make it work? What's going on?
i-YZ6CpzyYZeN51RJnk2kP4W	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! That is a reasonable and good question, I would say. It's about the Swedish Agency for Growth and all the authorities. We must constantly work to ensure that they have the conditions and resources to fulfil their mission. However, when it comes to the Swedish Agency for Growth and the time we live in, it must be taken into account that the Swedish Agency for Growth is the authority that has received most of the suggestions – and there are many – that the government and parliament via 17 or 18 additional budgets, I think they are, have launched to save businesses and jobs in the crisis. We have tried to act quickly on those proposals. They have, of course, been tried to design them so that they will get right and so that they can be paid out correctly, but that is a challenge. It will be a challenge for any authority that finds itself in such a situation. When one is in a crisis, it is clear that one could always wish that both society and social structures were dimensioned for crisis. However, it is not something that we normally want to pay for when it is not a crisis. Unfortunately, it is probably the case that when you need to do very rapid upscaling as we did in connection with the pandemic, and as I think it was right that you did in connection with the pandemic, there will be some parts that do not work optimally. You shouldn't be content with that. That is not an answer to the entrepreneur who gets caught. For this entrepreneur, both the authorities and politics must have exactly the dialogue that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson calls for. It is important to ensure that you do it again, that you do it right and that you become more accurate if it is now that we need to go into that type of measures in the event of an increased spread of infection and possibly new restrictions again in Sweden too.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-814	Madam President, I would like No, there is no society that is dimensioned for a pandemic or other. Then you have to set up and do it. What surprises you from the beginning is that you have the Tax Agency that has organized things before. You think it has a certain habit that you could scale up. Here, however, responsibility is placed on the Swedish Agency for Growth, which has not had those assignments. Then you have to fill up with people from the IRS. We know that. The question is, why did this happen? It's also other parts. All of a sudden, support will go through the county administrative boards. It's a limited partnership and a limited partnership. The department lacks knowledge of what the two forms of companies mean. This means that there will be no aid paid, because the aid is incorrectly designed. No one has been able to search. If you want to be a bit mean, you could say that the support looked good on paper, or someone doesn't know.
i-RX7GHdqZX1mvQ18htj3s94	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the supplementary questions. I think we are basically quite in agreement. We constantly need to work with developing authorities, government management and the ability of authorities to do a good job. I also think that we are quite in agreement that the pandemic has stressed society and the authorities in a way that we could never have foreseen. It's not good that things don't get good and right right at once. My picture is that everyone is still working very hard to ensure that the systems are in place and that they are as well designed as they can. It is also important to prepare and take height for any new waves. I can also note that in many other debates that I have had with Moderates on this subject, it is often claimed that the support that exists, they exist because the Moderates pushed on and went ahead. I don't share that picture. My picture is that we have had a great consensus on these issues. I hope we can continue to have it.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-821	Madam President, I would like Often when you listen to Social Democrats in this pulpit it sounds like everything is going fantastic, and if the budgets of the Swedish Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats had been passed in this case it would have been disaster. If you put your ear to the ground a little bit and listen to what the world is like in our country outside these doors, you get a different picture than the image that the honourable Member just gave in his speech. Over the years, I have had debates with many Social Democrats on everything from labour market issues, the unemployment fund, financial issues, business issues to extra amending budgets during the pandemic and so on. I am sometimes struck by the lack of humility that exists, and one might wish that humility existed. Today we have a situation in Sweden that is more or less similar to a crisis. It concerns cement and energy, and we have crime on the increase. We have skills shortages, and we have Europe's fourth highest unemployment rate, to take some examples. After all, the Social Democrats have been leaders in this country in recent years. In addition, the Member himself has been Minister of Government. I would like to ask the honourable Member whether, as the former Prime Minister said, it has been seven fantastic years and whether this is also the case specifically for this area of expenditure and the issues we are now discussing.
i-CFo1da3xyAC4JXPj5aXa1c	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexander Christiansson, for the question! Again, I do not think the honourable Member listened to my speech if he heard in it that I said that everything is just fantastic. I tried to paint the societal challenges that I see we face, and I chose the biggest societal challenges. But I also tried to point out that there are great opportunities in this. Of course, this presupposes an active policy. I also presented various measures that we are doing in this area aimed at strengthening the competitiveness and innovation of companies in Sweden. Then the honourable Member says that it often sounds like it would have been terrible if SD's, KD's and M's budgets went through. I am sorry to inform the honourable Member that it did so. It does not have the majority in this House, but it did. It means changes in the margin. It does not address any of the challenges that the honourable Member just asked me about in any tangible way. At the end of last line, we noted that the changes in this area correspond to 1% change and redistribution, and that is a 1% reduction. It is not primarily, at least not sufficiently, spent on solving the societal challenges that the honourable Member claims to be concerned about. These are societal challenges that I think we are all concerned about, and they are societal challenges that are why this budget, too, is a historically large budget. A normal budget is usually between 25 and 30 billion in the space of reform. This year we have 100 billion, and what is on Parliament's table now is 74 billion. We want to address these societal challenges and take advantage of this opportunity when we are re-starting Sweden to do so as wisely and efficiently as possible.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-832	Madam President, I would like What are the most important societal challenges also partly depends on who you ask. If you talk to Sweden's small businesses, for example, you hear about the extreme challenges that they face and that they face daily. I will come back to this a little later in my speech. This applies not least to small businessmen working in the retail sector who are victims of crime, theft and so on. Of course, we have suggestions on how to deal with the problems! I would like to ask the honourable Member a question in order to put it into practice. Let us take crime as an example. The government is talking about having more cops and so on. But the problems are here and now! 20% of small businesses have considered shutting down precisely because of crime and insecurity. How to deal with it on the part of the government?
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-835	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the supplementary question. I can only say that crime, no matter what form it comes and no matter who it affects, is a problem. Society must always be prepared to build up its strength against crime. That is why the government has given all law enforcement authorities what they wanted in budgetary terms. Now this debate is not primarily about crime, it is a debate that should be about business. As far as business is concerned, I can see that the Swedish Democrats' budget obviously did not go through because they chose to sign up with other parties on a draft budget. But it is strange that a party that claims to be concerned about Sweden and Sweden's development can find, for example, reductions in research and innovation of up to 1 billion. Research and innovation is perhaps one of the most important things to strengthen Swedish companies, small and large, in a changing world.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-839	Madam President, everyone who is watching and honourable colleagues in this House! It is clear that the pandemic has hit both companies and individuals hard. Many of the companies have suffered tremendously, not least in tourism, restaurants and hotels. There are those who have contacted me who have seen their savings disappear into nothing. They have had to sell houses and homes to keep employees and their company. The support that the state and we have tried to help with has made a difference. Even if one should admit that it has been a certain problem – and many companies have also had a lot of trouble with the bureaucracy – one can say that the subsidies have made a difference for many. Unfortunately, we see that the pandemic seems to continue. Dissemination in our neighbouring countries has taken on tremendous momentum. Last week, the Public Health Agency made recommendations. So it wasn't really restrictions, but it was enough for many to cancel their Christmas dinners. Then why am I saying this? Because Christmas is one of the occasions during the year when the restaurateurs have the opportunity to refill their wallets. A friend of mine has a restaurant and a hotel in Vindeln, Västerbotten. She called me last week, and she was totally broken. On that very day she had received a cancellation of 160 people from a company. She had bought what needed to be bought in for the Christmas dinner. You should also have drink tickets. It is a loss for a small entrepreneur with several hundred thousand crowns. And, Madam President, it does not stop there, but the cancellations continue. In the same way, it is for other restaurateurs around Sweden. You have probably read articles and seen feature interviews on TV confirming that you have been exposed to the same thing, that is, these cancellations, which make a huge deep hole in the economy. I am saying this because I know that the Committee on Finance is discussing the issue of possible future aid. I hope and believe that all of us in the Committee on Economic Affairs are pushing our colleagues and not least the government, because Sweden needs further support for the restaurant and hotel industry. It's bleeding now. It needs, among other things, conversion aid; it has also been appealed for by the trade association Visita. I therefore hope and believe that the government is also acting quickly, because this is a situation in which things are going really badly. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that the Center Party has chosen to vote for our own budget bill. We therefore refrain from taking part in the decision. But I would like to make a few points that we have focused on. It is, among other things, the countryside. I'm not ashamed to stand and say in the speaker's chair that I love the countryside. Just like the Minister for Enterprise says he loves mines, I love the countryside. I feel very proud that we have spent a lot of money in saving the small sandwiches in the countryside. That is twice as much as in the current budget. In addition, we have invested a great deal in agriculture. We have added 1 billion more to the rural programme and also some to snow clearance, individual roads and street lighting in the countryside. We also try to focus on creating test beds for new green technology or simply on developing and researching electric aviation. Other things include test beds for biorefineries, for example. Another point that I would very much like to mention in this context is the large regulatory simplification package that we have. Part of it concerns the Committee on Industry and Industry itself. We have even spoken about some of the simplifications in committee today. They have really been a hot potato ever since Cementa sounded the alarm that you simply could not break more lime on Gotland. It has a lot to do with regulatory problems and long waiting times for environmental permits. Now it is reviewed through various investigations. But there are also things that can be solved here and now. Some of that we also raised in committee today, namely the mines. This is our new minister's favorite area, or at least one of them. There are about a handful of cases that are squandering around the Government Office on which decisions could be taken in the near future, which I hope will also happen. Every minister of industry has recently said that we should do this, but nothing has happened. One example is the decision about Kallak outside Jokkmokk. The company waiting for a decision from the government has been waiting for seven years. There are other decisions that have been taken by judicial authorities, such as Kaunis Iron in Pajala. They have written 8 000 pages in an environmental impact assessment, and now they are told that it is far too far. They have spent 50 million, and now there is a trial on the matter. There are a lot of other things that are also on the government table. We can't be like this. Why do I say that? Because, in the long run, it is not good for Swedish industry. This is not good for Swedish mining industry. We are constantly falling in the international mining index that exists. Sweden is soon not as attractive as a mining country anymore. When companies like Boliden choose to invest in other countries, in a smelting plant in Norway or in a copper mine in Finland, of course, some say so. They have also said publicly that if we do not overcome the long waiting periods for environmental permits, they are thinking about moving even more activities to other countries – and they are not alone. I will follow the Minister very closely. Although he is positive and says that these decisions will be made in the near future, I will not rest on the male, and neither will the Center Party and others in here. That's enough. You cannot wait up to ten years to get a decision, yes or no, in Sweden. It's not good for the landowners. It's not good for those who are against. Above all, it is not good for the mining companies, which spend an enormous amount of money. Of course, Madam President, I would also like to take this opportunity to say something about the forest. There will be a bill for enhanced property rights this spring. However, the great threat, Madam President, comes from the European Union. We are now seeing a burst of EU directives fall on Sweden that will hit hard on the forest industry, jobs in rural areas, climate and Swedish self-determination. It is about the EU's forestry strategy. It is about – you may have heard this before – LULUCF, taxonomy, RED, the Renewables Directive and several other proposals. In addition to acting as a backbone in Sweden's rural economy, the used forest creates a triple climate benefit. It binds carbon as it grows, it binds carbon in wooden buildings after it has been felled and it replaces fossil raw materials and energy. Without Swedish forests and active forestry, Sweden's climate impact would be much greater. This is now threatened by proposals from the European Commission. We cannot accept the far-reaching proposals that the EU has put forward that will affect Swedish forestry policy and our forest industry. If only some of these proposals go through, it will change the successful forestry model that Sweden has been using for a very long time. It is therefore very important for the government to go down to the meetings in Brussels and for Austria, Finland and Sweden to help each other. These are the three major forest countries, where we need to hook arms. We don't have many other friends, so the government has a heavy burden to carry here. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to wish everyone in here a really happy Christmas and a happy new year, because nobody has done so, at least not during today's debate. Perhaps the President and the Bureau have heard it a few times, but I would also like to take this opportunity to wish. Perhaps we do not fully agree on the budget or perhaps on the substance of the policy on nutrition, but in terms of the money, the differences are not really so great. These debates are very much in order to show the direction of the policies that they want to pursue.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-858	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Helena. At first, I did not intend to ask for a reply because it was really about Category 24. But then it got all the wider, and when the mineral issues came up and it was said that the Minister of Economic Affairs loves mines, I must of course get on that hook. We also heard that the Minister for Economic Affairs said that he also loves environmental legislation, which I think was a very good addition to it. Helena Lindahl specifically raised Gállok, or Kallak, a highly topical issue. There's a question. From the Green Party, we see mineral policy as a whole, and we really need a long-term sustainable mineral supply. It simply means that some places are suitable and others are very inappropriate. In the Kallak case, it is very difficult to find a compromise. Either it becomes mineral, or it becomes reindeer nutrients. Here we see a great risk of damage at the World Heritage Site. It will also be very difficult with the reindeer industry. Then I think of Sweden's reputation as a mineral nation. Just as Bolsonaro does not respect indigenous peoples in its forest, we do not respect indigenous peoples linked to mining establishments. I see a very great risk with this, precisely for our reputation as a sustainable mineral nation. My question to Helena Lindahl is whether she really believes that it is the right way to open a mine in Gállok, precisely from this sustainability perspective.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-862	Madam President, I would like Now it is not up to me to decide on Gállok. Nor have I been familiar with all the details of the government and the Minister for Economic Affairs. What I know is that a matter cannot be spent seven years at the Government Office without either indigenous peoples, landowners or mining companies being told. I think everyone feels much worse about it, whether it's a yes or a no. Then I understand very well that it takes time, because it is an extensive matter. However, it is under any criticism that you have had to wait so long, just as in some other mining matters that are also at the Government Office and waiting for decisions. Amanda Palmstierna talks about Sweden's reputation as a mineral nation and that you should respect indigenous peoples. I think we are a bit hypocritical when we talk about bringing home cobalt and other innovation minerals and metals from other countries where we know that people are being used, that there is child labour and that human rights are being violated. There are other indigenous peoples, and we can't say it's okay. We will need these minerals and metals to turn into a more climate-smart and green society, and then it cannot be okay for other countries' indigenous peoples and people to suffer for us to have our backyard clean. The thing about our reputation as a mineral nation I think is not just about what we do within Sweden's borders. That's really just what I'd like to add.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-865	Madam President, I would like As far as Gállok is concerned, it is not about these conversion minerals, but it is iron ore. That is why I do not think that this is the issue. I have full respect for the fact that the honourable Member will not take a stand on this matter. It's true it's at the Government Office. As far as the length of the proceedings is concerned, I agree. It shouldn't take that long. It's very important that we don't overlay problems in other countries. There, Sweden works to promote due diligence legislation. We are also working on aid to improve their conditions. We cannot just say stop and evidence and, in this case, suddenly not be free trade friends anymore. Here we can combine free trade with aid. EU-wide legislation is also very important. That way you get the whole bit there. I have one last question. After all, the Center Party has always rejected the Swedish Democrats, but now you chose to release their budget by pressing a yellow button. I'd love to hear how that happened.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-870	Madam President, I would like I would just like to say this to Mr Palmstierna: it is clear that the Center Party and the Green Party have slightly different views on the mining industry. I come from Västerbotten in the north where we have a lot of these deposits, and there I see that there is another aspect, a third, which is rarely mentioned. There are jobs in areas where people are screaming for jobs. If there are no jobs, you can move. With all due respect, I don't think everyone can work with nature tourism – the issue is so much bigger. The Centre Party's choice to vote for its own motion is not surprising, I think that has been done by parties at all times. They have chosen to vote on their own proposal because they thought it was best, and then they have abstained. I have to say that it is a bit difficult to telepathically promise the Green Party that one should be on a budget that has not been negotiated.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-873	Madam President, I would like There are lessons to be drawn from the pandemic that has hit us in recent years, and if we had chosen to really embrace them, I think the budget would have been different. The business community depends for the most part on having a functioning society, that is, people have access to care, that we can respond to overcrowding, that the basic is accessible and that we can support each other in this. We should be able to re-prioritise and face unemployment with solid investments to meet the climate crisis. We from the Left Party have a budget that invests in reducing the huge gaps that exist in Sweden today. Our budget is to strengthen welfare and transform society into a greener society. If there is one thing this pandemic has shown, it is that we all benefit from having a strong common society. It has also shown that crises hit those already affected by economic and social disparities in society hardest. Inequality creates worse conditions for companies. Housing shortages, poor maintenance, electricity grids that do not cover needs, lack of extension of rail traffic, inaccessible public transport, rural and suburban impoverishment, and a segregated school system do not provide a good basis for developing innovative sustainable businesses. Our policy provides a solution to this. In business, we must learn the lesson of making greater demands on the large companies that receive state aid. We have large companies that have made large dividends at the same time as they have received money from the state. We have companies like SAS, who have received huge support, including the lay-off support that will secure the jobs, but who then chose to reorganise themselves to circumvent the Swedish working model and dismiss the staff. These companies have not accepted their responsibilities and have not respected the contributions that the Swedish people have given them. Making demands is not a disadvantage to businesses; it creates trust. Madam President, I would like We believe that it is time to invest in the common – in changing, renovating and driving development forward. Therefore, we present an investment plan for the future. Major public investment is intended to stimulate the economy and create jobs. Through these investments, we also ensure that we meet the great societal needs that have long characterized large parts of the common. We see the need to be able to provide a broader and larger government loan at low interest rates for the green companies. Green companies must be supported in order to be able to face up to competition on equal terms, and more companies must dare to be part of the climate transition. We must also reduce transport and, at the same time, make more sustainable production chains. One of the proposals to address this is to enable companies to take further steps in their processing process. We believe that this would provide great opportunities for development, especially for small and medium-sized industries, which today are the ones that generate the most jobs. They would have reason to retrain or recruit to expand their production chain. This could also lead to climate gains, as some of the transports that take place when companies have their long production chains outside can be eliminated. Sweden has a gender-disaggregated labour market, and entrepreneurship is no exception. We from the Left Party have chosen to put forward two points in order to secure women's entrepreneurship. One is that support for women's innovation, which is a neglected area. We believe that state aid for innovation must take this into account. The second is about strengthening women's entrepreneurship by supporting female professional networks. Female entrepreneurs describe how different treatment is when, for example, they go to the bank for loans. In some cases they have had to bring with them a man who has been able to act as an expert. It is sad that this is happening in 2021. We believe that sustainable democratic companies are the companies of the future. It has also turned out that it is these companies that are best able to cope with a crisis. We want to see a greater diversity of operating and ownership forms in entrepreneurship, where we believe that cooperatives and workers-owned companies could be an important part. They have proved to be long-term and sustainable and can cope with crises. This is an important way out of the crisis, and we must be able to support it. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that business is an integral part of society and is affected when parts of society do not work. Business depends on us creating an equal, democratic and developed society. We are reminded of how vulnerable we are in this global world, where much of our raw materials and products are imported from other continents. In this respect, we also need to look across our borders and realise the impact we have on the development of other countries and how we can contribute to improving them both here and there. One of the agreements under discussion is the trade agreement with Chile. If usual, I expect it to be expressed in fine words what is important and what is not, but the truth is that we need to be more concrete than that. The water is privatised in Chile. This means that companies have bought water wells in many areas. The buyers are European water and energy companies as well as transnational agro-businesses. To produce the n avocados we buy at Ica and the wines we drink, the companies have bought up the water sources. They can then drain the area around the farms. This is the intention of the local population without access to water. Today, some 1,500 schools in Chile are permanently without water. Locals have to buy water, and they can't afford it. It is not that there is no water in the area. There are actually quite large sources of water, but they do not get access to them. They simply get to dry or move away from there. Small farmers have lost crops and animals, with an avocado growing glowing as a green oasis in the middle of the drought. We are responsible for this, and we must demand that this be rectified before we continue with trade. With this, I refer to our specific opinion.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-894	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has left a deep mark on our society. The pandemic has affected us people in many different ways, and many have had to pull a big load for Sweden AB. Companies and entrepreneurs are some who have had to take great pains. But if you look at it a little positively, it is the first time in many years that the situation of entrepreneurs has actually been raised in the debate and where public interest has increased. I myself am an old entrepreneur and have fought for the rights of entrepreneurs long before I joined the Swedish Parliament in 2018. Entrepreneurs' opportunities to grow and have the same rights as employees were one of the reasons why I applied to politics. In my circle there are everything from conditors, advertising agency owners, cleaning company owners, farmers to tech entrepreneurs and computer game entrepreneurs, to name a few. In recent decades, four out of five new jobs have been created in companies with fewer than 200 employees. These important companies must be given the right conditions to grow. It is a crucial piece of the puzzle in managing integration, jobs and welfare. It is with good conditions for entrepreneurship, investment, innovation and entrepreneurship that we build a strong Sweden. Madam President, I would like One might almost think that it is only the Committee on Economic Affairs that prepares and discusses business issues. It's not like that. Nutrition issues can be found in many of Parliament's committees, perhaps all of them. I would like to highlight some of the Liberals' strong points in industrial policy here. Some are outside this processing area, but I think they are well worth lifting up. Rapid technological developments mean a new type of labour market. Policy must relate to development and quickly remove barriers to employment in our modern economy. All jobs are needed, and simplification of the tax system is necessary. Liberals have long pushed the issue of better and simpler rules for the smallest companies, a group of companies that are now growing. Liberals therefore want to simplify VAT taxation for the smallest companies by raising the turnover limit for VAT exemption to SEK 100 000 per tax year. It is the largest exception that can be made in Sweden under the current VAT Directive, and this would mean that a large number of companies can avoid VAT accounting. Madam President, I would like Reducing the cost of hiring is an effective measure to create more jobs. During the time of the alliance government, the Liberals were the driving force in reducing employers' contributions for young people. It is a reform which, according to independent audits, is estimated to have created 10 000 new jobs. The positive effects of reducing the cost of hiring are particularly evident when it comes to the establishment of foreign-borns in the labour market. The same is true of young people who need the first job. However, the Swedish tax system is complex, especially when it comes to the taxation of economic activities. Complexity particularly affects smaller companies, which are generally less able to navigate in the regulatory bureaucracy. Estimates show that reducing the complexity of taxes by 10 per cent would increase entrepreneurship by as much as 3 per cent. That connection must be reflected in politics. Unfortunately, developments in recent years have gone in the wrong direction. Today, one in three companies states that they spend more time on tax administration than they did five years ago. Madam President, I would like Gender equality is achieved through economic reforms. We therefore need strong policies that destroy gender inequalities. Then, as this government does, calling itself a feminist government but not giving women the right conditions to run businesses is nothing more than hypocrisy. Women's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are one of the most important pieces of the puzzle for a successful and equal country. Money is power, and women today do not have access to capital. Of Sweden's 490 000 entrepreneurs, around one in four are women. According to a worldwide study, women's entrepreneurship has collapsed by 30 percent in Sweden. An important explanation is precisely women's lack of access to capital. In one of the world's most equal countries, 93% of invested capital goes to men. That is totally unacceptable. A report from the parliamentary investigation service also shows that on average only 9 per cent of the companies that Almi Invest considers interesting to make any investments in are companies that consist of only women. Almi himself says that one main reason why the venture capital industry is divided is that men usually choose to invest in men. The government has never seen entrepreneurship as the foundation of society and therefore a rather meaningless gender equality policy. Gender equality and women who want to put their ideas into practice and run businesses must stop. State and state institutional investors have an important responsibility to take the lead and pave the way for a more equal distribution of risk capital. Each year, the state pays out approximately SEK 30 billion in business and innovation support. It is clear to us Liberals that the state must take greater responsibility. A clearer direction in which state capital goes to women's entrepreneurship is of great importance for achieving, in the long term, more equal investment and a more equal society. The importance of mentoring for entrepreneurship should not be underestimated. Mentoring offers important opportunities for, among other things, exchanges of experience and contacts and can thus be of great importance especially in the start-up phase of a company. Both gender equality and the quality of entrepreneurship have much to gain from effective efforts and support for mentoring programmes. This is something the Liberals want to invest in. Business issues cannot be debated without involving energy policy. Swedish companies should be able to get electricity whenever they want, where they want and also at reasonable and predictable prices. Companies should not have to adapt their production to weather and excessive price levels. The government's energy policy has definitely collapsed, and the bill must be borne by electricity customers. That is neither reasonable nor acceptable. It is because entrepreneurs dare to hire that we get the tax revenue that finances our welfare. If we are to have high ambitions with welfare, it is based on people working and on our companies growing. Madam President, I would like Finally, the draft budget of the Liberals is a coherent whole, and since the Parliament in the framework decision has supported the joint proposals of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats for a financial framework for the state budget and for budgetary policy, we have not taken part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure. With that, I wish the President, the President's Bureau, the committee and the committee staff a Merry Christmas.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-912	Madam President, I would like Members of the Committee on Economic Affairs! Any audience out there! Today we are debating a blue-brown budget which is essentially a climate and nature slaughter. 2 billion that would have gone to the protection of forests, to protect the mountains, the Amazon of Sweden, has with a pen line been removed from the budget. A petrol tax will be reduced in the midst of the climate crisis. And climate action has been torn out of the budget. It is both irresponsible and incompetent to do so. Without preparation, some parts are removed. It also has unforeseen consequences. For example, Sweden is now in danger of losing 34 billion that we would receive from the EU's recovery fund. We do not yet know whether we will meet the EU's requirements in the regulation that is part of that programme. It remains to be seen. I know the government is struggling with that. We'll just see where it lands. The Moderates say you should be responsible with taxpayers' money. But this is how you act. Today, it is really Category 24 Business that we are going to debate. I would therefore like to focus specifically on this. It distinguishes 90 million between the draft budget of the Social Democrats and the Green Party and the blue-brown draft budget. What has been removed is a competence boost aimed at companies. It is aimed at climate, circular economy and digitalisation. The reason for this initiative was that the government has different collaboration programmes, and this was a collaborative programme for the climate, which is really in demand. This is a need for companies. Earlier during the coronapandemine, we have also heard Almi and other actors say that it is for companies to digitise or die. It is therefore very unfortunate that we are focusing on the digitisation money. As a consequence, the Swedish Growth Agency will probably have to close the digitalization lift. There is also a risk of losing competence.nu and Robotliftet. This simply affects the upskilling of thousands of companies in the green transition. In addition, certainly in another field of funding, money is being deducted from the county administrative boards. These would have gone to licensing processes for the electricity grids, so there too it will be slower. It is an important business issue where things are getting worse. I would now like to leave the budget for a moment and describe the Green Enterprise Policy of the Green Party, which consists of two parts. On the one hand, there are long-term, sharp rules of play where companies should know what they have to expect; on the other hand, we share the risks with companies to be able to take these steps. This will help to ensure the long-term sustainable competitiveness of companies and to ensure future-proof industries. When it comes to long-term rules of the game, climate law and the reduction obligation, the change of fuel, are very good examples, and when it comes to sharing risks, the Green Party is actually an architect and is responsible for several initiatives that parties are now fighting to take credit for. These efforts remain in this budget. We have Climate Studies that lead to investments across Sweden on everything from charging infrastructure to energy efficiency and other things. Industrikliv, which is aimed at companies that want to be at the forefront and try out completely new solutions in the climate area, is also left. It is very good that it can live over terms of office. We also have green credit, that is, green preferential loans for companies that want to invest in climate change. It is a support that the Green Party was the brains behind and is now growing and growing, which is very good. Even a new investment in fossil-free and circular procurement is still in place, and if it is something that I have heard from virtually all the companies that I have met in the area of sustainability, it is calling for procurement. It also wants to promote new markets in order to demand these services. There, the former Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has placed assignments on the Procurement Authority, which has worked with circular economy and climate, and now it is followed up with money so that the initiative can be taken forward. I'm gonna round off looking back a year. Then both Dagens Nyheter, Flamman and Dagens Industri wrote about the Environmental Party's industrial policy, and it is interesting that there were so many different newspapers – left, middle, right. Today's industry wrote: a change of government is in reality a business risk if the green pressure on business disappears or weakens. ..................................................... The Flame wrote:. the Green Party understands the industry better than the Moderates. ..................................................... I am concerned that this is exactly what is happening now. What we are seeing in the field of industry spending is, of course, the removal of investments in skills for companies in digitalization, climate and the circular economy, and the tipping off of the money to the county boards that would have facilitated licensing processes concerning the electricity grids. This affects thousands of companies. It affects jobs around Sweden and is definitely a weak climate. Madam President, I would like I am not taking part in the decision today, but I am referring to the joint special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-927	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to listen to the speech and be able to ask some questions! We heard earlier a change of line between the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats, where they talked about a budget that was a change of 1 percent. All of a sudden, it's called slaughter. It'll have to stand for every party. This is about building bridges. As a moderate, I see a society that is about to change. During that transition, you cannot first make holes in the road so that you do not cross. Or with another illustration: If you are going to build an upper floor of a house, you need to have a staircase left. You don't remove the stairs first. That is just how it works for me, and it will be very strange if people and businesses in this country are not to be able to make progress. We have the example of the stations that we discussed a few weeks ago in our own report. For me, it is very important that people should continue to be able to move forward and that we spend money on, for example, fuels that have become better and better with time and that cars use less and less of. Today there are no charging poles, and there are no electric cars that work in cold climates and so on. It must work so that people can come along on the other side without getting poorer. We talked about white spots where you can't live, live and work. For me, it will be a very strange discussion. First, you want to break what you have because you don't want it, and then you say that it's incredible to want more humane fuel prices. A 50 ear doesn't do much, but considering how to reason, on the other hand, it seems to do damage. I would like to hear how the Green Party thinks about this.
i-9vAQjrVmpCZuLESYTM7jBU	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! As far as 1% is concerned, slaughter and what words are used, I think it is quite clear that very important climate efforts have been picked out with precision and also protection of nature. That's what I put in the word. The investments in energy efficiency have disappeared, and then there is the tax on petrol. So it is not only about the percentage, but also about the investments that have been made, and here the climate has been postponed with precision. Rural areas are an extremely important issue, and the Social Democrats and the Green Party had money for sandwiches in rural areas in the budget that we put forward. I would also like to emphasise that it is very important to see both. You can't just remove something, you have to have something to do with it. So we do not just want to remove petrol but to ensure that there are other ways forward. It's extremely important. For example, we have had a conversion premium to convert the car you have today if you cannot afford to buy an electric car. Of course, we also have investments in railways, not least in northern Sweden. It's extremely important. But where there is no railway, you should be able to drive your converted car, simply.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-936	Madam President, I would like This country is in a situation of great trouble after seven years of a red - green government. It is about the whole of the judiciary, where we also choose to make funds. It's really important to us. We also have medical care that needs to be handled. As we heard in previous posts, there is also money – 3.5 billion more than the government adds – precisely to be able to graze care queues, get more care places and even eradicate cervical cancer. So there are different parts of this budget that are supposed to lead the way. I thought I'd get back to the fuel business. You can't convert a car into an electric car if they still don't work, which we heard at a meeting with the automotive industry the other day. There's a bit left before you get there. People need to be able to get into the future, otherwise we will stop and stop.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-938	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is very important to invest in police and health care, and it is also included in the red-green budget. There are also several other proposals in addition to the budget. I agree that these are really very important issues. The transport issue is very complex. We should not unilaterally invest in electric cars, but it is also very important to invest in expanding the possibility of biogas cars as a complement. There must simply be different options for getting around. Moreover, the whole cycling infrastructure is completely substandard and dangerous in rural areas. You need to see all the different pieces of the puzzle in the transport infrastructure and make sure it works for the countryside as well. It's extremely important.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-941	Madam President, I would like The current debate concerns the Enterprise Committee's report NU1 Enterprise on Category 24. The report deals with a wide range of issues in the field of business, not least the tourism industry – which has been hit hard during the pandemic. In our budget base, we note that Sweden needs a new course. Active economic and trade policy is an important cornerstone of an economic policy that can solve acute societal problems in Sweden. Sweden has several problems and challenges that affect our country and conditions for companies, such as insecurity with gang leagues that carry out capital goods and break-ins. It's a big worry. The increased cost of protecting companies against crime when investing in protective measures is a burden. There are unresolved problems of migration and integration, and we need talent for the country in order for the business community to cope with its skills supply. Sweden is a fantastic country, and there is a great potential to exploit if we want to continue to be a country at the forefront – which we want. According to an OECD measurement, Sweden is not at the forefront of 5G and digitalisation in the way we should. Sweden has, among other things, lost a position in Desi, Digital Economy and Society Index 2021. Both Denmark and Finland are better. Sweden is in place 14 out of 36 when the European Commission compares the digital administrations in Europe in e-Government Benchmark 2021, where Sweden lags behind in all focus areas. At the same time, we know that, in the area of intellectual property and innovation, there is a strategy in place in our neighbouring country, Finland. They are now in the starting pits for version 2.0. Denmark is working on its strategy to be launched, but Sweden has none. One of these needs to be in place. Finland has also taken a big step to make its innovations useful. Aalto University has brought together industry, academia and politics to jointly deliver innovation. Sweden should also have this in place. A policy is needed to create development power, growth potential and employment opportunities in order for us to continue to have the welfare we have. People and businesses should be given the opportunity to grow and develop, and everyday life should work. Growth means that we get money into welfare. Growth enables companies to operate and employ. Growth means that people have a job and a livelihood and that more jobs and entrepreneurs are created. By being proactive, not least in Brussels, in Swedish matters, our country can drive instead of being driven by others. This is extremely important, not least from the point of view of being able to maintain free trade in a world that is closing. Our country needs to export and import. The business policy that is decided must therefore protect and develop the Swedish business community, while promoting exports and laying a foundation for new business opportunities for Swedish companies. The recovery in the world economy has taken off strongly, but we are also in a position where the increase in the spread of viruses has taken off again in the world around us. Yesterday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned of the next wave of viruses: omichron. Until now, imposing restrictions has meant that the economic situation is growing stronger every quarter. Both globally and in the Swedish economy there is a strong recovery force, but it is important to be careful and see what lies ahead. We now see restaurant visits being brought before Christmas, and this is eating up the strained hospitality industry. Madam President, I would like Despite the strong recovery in the economy in general, many companies have not made it back to pre-pandemic production levels. It is therefore important that Sweden now takes clear steps to create better conditions for reaching both small and medium-sized enterprises and the base industry so that they can grow and create jobs. Too many and complicated laws and rules cost. Since 2014, the cost of the regulatory burden is around 1 billion per year for companies, and we are now up to 7 billion. The experience in the business sector of regulatory problems is tangible, and we have noted that the government has submitted a letter to the Riksdag on new cases in the area of simplification. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the pace of simplification needs to be substantially increased. Sweden has fallen behind further in the simplification work compared to 2018 within the OECD. Sweden is now below the OECD average in most of the areas audited. Swedish authorities often have excessively long processing times and permit processes. It costs too much today and takes too long, and it is often perceived as unclear by the applicant what is required to obtain a necessary permit. It is welcome that the government has set up some investigations, but they seem to be moving in a tighter direction than facilitating business and entrepreneurship. Then Sweden is on the wrong road. One example of a company suffering from problems with environmental permits is Cementa's application for further mining of the lime in Slite on Gotland. Cementa could be world class when it comes to cement if it all works out. The Land and Environment Court stops LKAB from expanding in Kiruna. The County Administrative Board of Norrbotten wants to stop Kaunis Iron mining in Pajala. Madam President, I would like I would like to go into the subject that Jennie Nilsson said earlier that we should not talk much about because it concerns another area; I do it anyway. I mention electricity because it's a big deal. Sweden has great opportunities ahead of it with new industrialisation: thousands of new jobs in different parts of the country, electrification of industry and transport, and phasing out fossil dependence to fossil-free. At the same time, there are major problems with electricity shortages. These are high prices. There are examples of companies that cannot establish themselves, cannot grow or have quit jobs due to electricity problems. The conversion and the start-up are good, but at the same time 70 per cent of those who currently use electricity in their companies are located in the southern part of Sweden. When the northern part of the country is to increase its use of the electricity, and the government has knocked away the legs of the planned force that has existed with Ringhals 1 and 2, it will be negative for the whole country. This places great demands on political action. Anyone who removes important base power must also tell us what is to be in its place. Examples of companies that have been affected are Pågen, who could not expand in Malmö in 2019, and Klippan Mill, which gives notice of one third of the employees in 2021. In each municipality of Laholm and the municipality of Robertsfors in Västerbotten, more than 2,000 jobs have been lost in 2021. Now they also raise the bread prices in Pågen with escalating electricity prices. But this has not only to do with electricity prices but also with fuel prices. Then food will ultimately cost consumers. It is about the price of manure, feed, energy and fuel. Extreme electricity prices have also forced Holmen to close production in 2021. Madam President, I would like Policies need to create long-term conditions for this trend not to last. For example, basic conditions are needed to secure electricity supply and stable and fossil-free electricity production, which is not the case today. Last but not least, I would like to say the following: we come from a situation in which the entire Corona crisis has been paved with slow management. It has taken time to provide information on the support to be provided, and it has taken time to get support – if it has even come to light. We do not want to look forward to this situation. As we may now be faced with a new wave, we sincerely hope that the government has a plan for aid to go along with the development of the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-965	Madam President, I would like It is really fun to debate Category 24. It is an area of expenditure that affects one of the most important things we have in our community building, namely entrepreneurs and business. As a self-employed person for many years, these issues have involved me, and although there is much to say about the Swedish business environment, there are also some concerns that need to be addressed. This is particularly true because the clouds of concern that business itself has been flagged for a long time have not been dealt with quickly enough. Unfortunately, it has become symptomatic of this government. It seems that the government waits until the last moment to deal with the problems, perhaps because of decision-making anxiety or simply because it does not dare to take the leadership shirt. Either you wait for other countries to lead the way, or you wait for authorities to avoid taking responsibility – a behaviour that we have seen not least now during the pandemic. To mention some of these concerns, I can begin with crime, which has become the most important issue for businesses and, in particular, small businesses. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise expects that crime costs companies around 100 billion annually. It is 100 billion that could have been used for something much more important, for example, to hire. But now the money is very often taken out of the country by foreign theft leagues, which is a huge problem. Before I received the honorable assignment as a Member of Parliament, I worked as an agent in the sports and fashion industry. It gave me the opportunity to travel around the country and meet hundreds of store managers, shop staff and others who work in the industry. Returning, not daily but very often, I heard stories about how insecurity and crime have increased for the retail sector in Sweden. It could be harassment, burglary, theft and other things. Far too often, it is theft leagues and groupings from the alien areas that are largely dedicated to this crime, and it is a problem that has both short-term and long-term consequences for society. Customs' press service believes that the toothless Swedish customs are used openly by criminals, making Sweden a sandwich table for foreign leagues. Combined with freedom of movement, it will be a disaster. I would also like to emphasise that the effort now being made on customs has been severely criticised. Experts feel that it is far too weak and that it focuses not on the goods that are taken out of the country but on what enters the country. It is too slow, Madam President. Therefore, we want to invest in increased police salaries, more police officers, more surveillance cameras, money for the Police Authority and investments in better technology for the police and detention sites at the Migration Agency. We also want to invest in customs and Coast Guards, but also in the judiciary as a whole. Another point I would like to highlight, Madam President, is the lack of competence. It is an issue that is currently worrying many entrepreneurs in many different industries in our country, not least in hotels and restaurants. Last week we met Visita, who gave us fresh figures. The industry screams for staff to both easier jobs and more complicated. More specifically, there are currently 7,000 vacancies, job vacancies, in the industry. At the same time, there are about 46 000 people enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen who have a direct connection to the industry. Of these, 15,500 are enrolled in Hotel and Restaurant Employees' Social Insurance Fund, which means that they could take a job tomorrow. Why, then, does the industry not get hold of people when there is clearly competence available? This, of course, testifies to a bug in the system. In addition to that, there are a total of 377,000 registered at Arbetsförmedlingen, and there are simple jobs. There are also many complex jobs in our labour market, but there are absolutely simple jobs. One theory of why this is the case is that the Employment Service has been mismanaged by various governments for a long time. Its mission has gone from working with matching on the labour market to working almost exclusively on integration projects. Unfortunately, we have seen that Samhall, too, has largely fallen victim to this and has failed in its core mission, which was to give people with disabilities a dignified job. This has been given a lot of attention in the media. That is why we agreed in Parliament that we need to reform the Employment Service. The smaller part of the unemployed who are close to the labour market does not receive the attention they deserve while those who are far from the labour market take a large share of the resources. Examples of this may be the subsidised fake jobs, which produce extremely poor results. Of the new arrivals who go through the establishment, even 10% do not get a real job. Here I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the 28 billion that the government invested in extra services, which would work so much better than all the other similar investments it has tested before. Extra services are 100% subsidised employment, primarily directed towards the public sector. The original idea was that the long-term unemployed and those with a special need for support would have a way into the labour market through meaningful activities. According to the parliamentary investigation service, these fake jobs have resulted in 6 per cent getting a real job. 6 %, Madam President. In what other activity can such a return be satisfied and then continue to make the same investment year after year? It's for me a riddle. Whatever the case, this is a complete failure for Swedish taxpayers. It is money that could, for example, have been used to simplify for small businesses. Small businesses are creating four out of five jobs in our common labour market. Reforming the Employment Service is central to tackling the problems, but it needs to be done in combination with reducing the cost of hiring. That is why we want to remove the additional services in our budget. A third point I would like to mention is the regulatory problem that prevents growth and innovation. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth's report, which came in April this year, the costs for companies have increased despite the Government's ambition to reduce them. I quote from the report's summary: a total estimated annual administrative costs for companies have increased by just under SEK 4 billion between 2013 and 2020 (excluding GDPR). ..................................................... Further down in the same report you can read that the proportion of small companies that experience laws and regulations as an obstacle to development and growth is stable at 60 percent. 60%, Madam President, feel that this is hindering growth and development. It is a huge figure, and it is a huge problem because our nation's ability to be a world leader in development and innovation is a guiding principle for us. In July this year, the government released an investigation called Simplifications for micro-enterprises and modernisation of the Accounting Act. Of course, the proposals were good, absolutely, but they are again too late. Swedish Enterprise's regulatory improvement expert Christer Östlund believes that there is more to be desired. He summed it up well: and too little and too late. ..................................................... With those words, Madam President, I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-993	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. In Parliament, we are responsible for managing the money of others in favour of creating a better country for everyone who lives here – for children and adults, for women and for men, for successful entrepreneurs and for the long-term unemployed, for nuclear health and long-term ills, for Södermalms people and for rospigs and for those in sparsely populated and rural areas, yes, in short for everyone. To make this possible, in order for there to be something to distribute, there must first come in some taxes. These come as a result of a living economy, which is the absolute basis of our welfare society. Every tax chandelier that is then allocated to our common good is created by companies. The economic policy of the Christian Democrats rests on the realization that work and well-being for all can only be achieved by people, families, businesses and civil society jointly taking responsibility for our common society. Sweden needs a business environment that lays the foundation for more jobs. New jobs cannot be commanded by politicians. They are created when people find it worthwhile to start and develop a business, realize an idea and risk their savings. We Christian Democrats are safeguarding a viable business that can create jobs and growth. A basic prerequisite for a good business environment is that companies can afford and employ. We know that the majority of new jobs are emerging in small and growing companies. Madam President, I would like I note that the new Minister of Economic Affairs Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson has gone out in a charm offensive and declared that Social Democrats love mines. The former government partner seems to feel a little betrayed because of this, and I myself feel curiously tarried. Undeniably, it would be an interesting turn if our country were to have a government that is interested in this basic industry, which, in addition to creating much else, is a key factor in climate change. We want electrification; we want batteries; we want a fossil-free society. Somewhere from here, the necessary metals must come. Sweden has fallen as a stone in Fraser Institute's ranking of the most attractive mining countries and is now first found in place 36. Swedish mines mean jobs, tax revenues and financing of welfare and are also an important piece of the puzzle in the necessary climate change. The ranking of the ranking sends signals to companies around the world about whether or not it is a good idea to invest in a country. The mining industry should be seen as a sector of the future and deserves legislation to facilitate this. Against this background, we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have on several occasions raised the importance of mines and tried to bax the government before us. It is much more fun to be optimistic than to be a pessimist, so I take note of the new government's declaration of love to the mines and put hope low at a high level of expectation. The future will show whether or not I have reason to be disappointed. Madam President, I would like For our business community, the pandemic has meant, and still means, bankruptcies. Many have been laid off, given notice, or laid off. In order to mitigate the economic and social impact, the Riksdag has decided on several different support packages. Much has been agreed across party boundaries, while some could have been done differently, if we are asked Christian Democrats. However, in addition to providing support and to some extent artificial breathing, it is important to build resistance to create the best possible conditions for entrepreneurship in our country. Madam President, I would like Regulation is carried out by a number of public actors, and I would say that coordination is so poor that companies find it difficult to get an overview of what rules apply and what actions and regulatory changes are under way and planned in the future. Instead of having relevant information gathered in one place, companies are forced to search in different places, and it is often difficult to form an idea of which rules apply and how to do right. I would therefore like to point out that a central platform for this type of information can make it more transparent for companies when different regulatory work starts and ends and how to make comments. I believe that such a platform can also strengthen the entrepreneurial perspective in regulation and counteract problems such as short time for companies to adapt to new rules. When I put an interpellation to former Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan over a year ago, he felt that there was already a platform. He referred to the government's own website – there's everything! I am not sure that this is what the OECD meant when they gave Sweden recommendations on the establishment of a central regulatory platform. Another measure that I see as important for reducing the regulatory burden on businesses is the creation of a so-called simplification forum. There are experiences to draw from our Danish neighbours, and Sweden should set up a simplification forum inspired by the other side of Öresund. It is time for Sweden to have a government that takes companies seriously. It concerns skills provision, security systems and regulatory facilitation. Above all, the government must show the attitude that every company is important to Sweden. We know that every tax chandelier is created in companies, which ensures that we have a welfare we can trust. As a Christian Democrat, I work for a Sweden you will be able to trust. With this, Madam President, I thank you for the floor. This is the last debate of the Committee on Economic Affairs for this semester, so I would also like to take this opportunity to wish a Merry Christmas to the Presidium of Presidents and all the officials who are here, as well as to the committee and all of you who have followed our debates during the past semester.
i-f96bc3d0aa07c821-1010	Madam President, I would like I just want to ask for approval of the Center Party's reservation, which I forgot when I was last up.
