i-6009480616fce0d8-8	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to endorse the reservation. Last autumn the Swedish National Agency for Education decided to close down its databases regarding information at pre-school and school level. The decision concerned both municipal and individual principals. This was the result of the previous year's change in the privacy policy of the Central Statistical Office, which had also gained legal force in a number of judgments in the Administrative Court of Appeal. This decision concerned independent schools, but since we apply the principle of equal opportunities, the decisions of the National Agency for Education also included municipal authorities. The data that were classified were data on, for example, student composition, grading, throughput and teacher density. These tasks are particularly important to us when comparing schools, conducting follow-ups and evaluations and distributing state grants. They are also important for evaluating current knowledge and knowledge over time. They are also important for us to be able to carry out quality reviews of schools. The decision meant that the data could not be used to make these very important comparisons between schools and principals. Moreover, parents and pupils with this decision could not make rational school choices based on available data. It is important that the information is easily accessible and understandable for a student and parent to be able to make a good school choice. It was a fundamentally unfortunate and unwanted decision. The government also chose to take time. After the Administrative Court of Appeal established its first judgment, it took about six months before the National Agency for Education was given the task of reporting which legislative changes were necessary to restore the order. It was six months after it had become known that there would be a problem. The government's slowness led to a vacuum. The political debate that followed was also strange. Sometimes it was presented as something driven by political parties, above all bourgeois parties and of course also the Swedish Democrats. It also appeared to be something that independent schools, especially those for profit, pushed forward. None of that was true. But for those who listened to the political debate in this House and followed social media, that was exactly the picture that was created. The government also focused on the principle of public access. Members of our committee on the left tried to make it a thing instead of going in concretely and saying that it was something we had to deal with, that there was no majority for the principle of public access in this House, but that we had to find solutions not to put schools in such a situation. The focus was simply wrong from the beginning. It has brought difficulties for parents, students, authorities and schools. I would like to stress, for those who are now sitting in front of televisions watching the debate, that the committee has been unanimous. There have been no differences of opinion on this issue. We have been absolutely convinced that things did not turn out well, and we have agreed that things had to be corrected. There have been no differences of opinion. It's not a good situation. Nor is there anyone in the free-school sector who has waved flags and said that it was an excellent development. On the contrary, they have also said that it is not good. The Swedish Democrats have therefore already regretted what has happened, and we have demanded that all the information previously available should continue to be so. Lately, a suggestion came up. This report now proposes the introduction of a non-confidential provision in the legislation on disclosure and confidentiality. That's great. The proposed provision restores the scheme to what it looked like prior to the decision of the Central Statistical Office on the new privacy policy. This means that all data previously available and public should continue to be available. It is a return to the past. And this applies to both municipal and independent schools. We think this is a good thing, but we would like the proposal to be permanent. The proposal now is that it should be a temporary solution. In the meantime, one should work out something that should be valid for longer and become permanent. We do not really understand that process. If a way has been found for schools and school authorities to obtain information that even pupils and parents can apply for, why can it not be permanent? If there are shortcomings, they can easily be corrected in the future. With a permanent provision, authorities, parents and students would be assured of a lasting solution, and the risk of once again ending up in a vacuum would be removed. We have therefore chosen to reserve ourselves. The law should be permanent and not temporary. This does not mean that we are opposed to the proposed legislation. Everything is better than the situation that is. Having said that, we now hope that the government, in its continued efforts to find a permanent solution, will put time and energy on the right measures and will come up with a proposal that will win the approval of the House.
i-6009480616fce0d8-22	Madam President, I would like We will remember September 2020 for a long time. It was then that the new interpretation of confidentiality legislation had such dramatic consequences that school choices, allocation of resources as needed, implementation of the national tests and knowledge of teacher density and teacher qualifications were going completely out of date. SCB read about the law and made a new assessment which basically meant that all the information, from name and address to student results and teacher density, became secret when it came to free schools. The reinterpretation was established by the judiciary, and since there is a basic idea that principals should be treated equally, regardless of their legal form, the National Agency for Education decided to depublish all statistics on all school units and school municipalities. The situation became urgent. Central parts of the school's governance were threatened. Of course, the fact that what goes on in schools in Sweden became a secret is also totally unacceptable. The proposal we are debating today aims to resolve the situation that has arisen quickly and temporarily. Therefore, the main proposal in the bill is to break statistical confidentiality in such a way that its application is as similar as possible to the situation prior to the reinterpretation of confidentiality rules. This means that the amendment of the law breaks the statistical confidentiality of individual school authorities. Madam President, I would like As a general rule, statistical confidentiality is absolute. It's important. Trust must be rock solid. Data on me collected for statistical purposes must be safe in the hands of statistical authorities. This sense of security is important for the quality and scope of statistics. Anyone who does not feel confident about providing their data in the hands of the authorities will be less inclined to contribute to the statistics. But right now it is so important that we resolve the situation that it simply has to be worth a departure from absolute statistical confidentiality. As I said, access to school statistics is about resources being allocated according to needs, conditions and results to be monitored, supervision to work – yes, the areas of use are very many and absolutely central to school governance. However, since it is such a clear departure from an important principle, the proposal is that the new rule should become a temporary provision that will apply until mid-2023. Madam President, I would like I talked this weekend to my sister, who is a certified teacher and works in a primary school in South Sweden. I mentioned that today we are going to debate school statistics and told you a little bit about what the matter is all about. She carefully wondered what it mattered for her when she was going to work the next day, and that is a real observation. In the short term, it is not today that we are revolutionising teachers' working conditions. But the central question here is how we solve the long-term problem that has arisen and the reasons why it has arisen at all. The issue of transparency in tax-funded activities is an absolutely central part of Swedish democracy and public administration. We Social Democrats in the Committee on Education therefore support the temporary proposal which is now on the table. However, we have also pointed out in the special opinion we gave together with the Green Party that the need for transparency goes further than that. The school market is problematic. It contributes to segregation and creates inequality. It makes money disappear from the system as profits in private corporations owned by God knows who. It creates driving forces to keep costs down, push up grade scores and segregate students. The system really has serious consequences. A further serious consequence of the system is that citizens' transparency of school activities varies depending on whether the school has a public or private principal. In its worst form, this means that information about schools can become business secrets, as has now become the case. In the sign of equal treatment, the same transparency should apply in independent schools as in municipal schools. This would increase public transparency but also make it easier for the media to review the activities of schools and, for example, how tax funds are used. All schools in Sweden are financed by our common funds. It is reasonable, then, for citizens and the media to have access to documents from all schools. All schools exercise authority. Decisions on grades, on special support and on disciplinary measures are the exercise of authority. It is therefore a very legitimate requirement that the public and the media should also be able to have transparency in the activities of the public authority organisation. Introduce the principle of public access in independent schools would mean equal treatment between principals, strengthening confidence in the system and strengthening the resilience of society to alternative agendas of extremists and other villains to run schools. Madam President, I would like So we are solving the statistical problem temporarily today. When we move forward and try to solve it in the long term, it is important that we also consider what transparency should exist in what is going on in the country's tax-funded schools and the principle of equal treatment. With this, I have clarified the position of the Social Democrats and call for approval of the Constitutional Committee's report 31.
i-6009480616fce0d8-35	Madam President, I would like During this parliamentary term, we have some issues that are of major importance. This is one of them. The situation in Swedish school is incredibly worrying. More than one in four children in grade 6 has not passed any subjects. Every year, 16 000 – 17 000 pupils leave comprehensive school without the opportunity to go to upper secondary school. We Moderates have repeatedly suggested in recent years that we have knowledge measurements and quality measurements in Swedish schools. But every time we propose it, the majority parties vote against those proposals. After Pisa, it has probably become clear to everyone that we need our own knowledge measurements, but so far we do not have them. The Swedish National Agency for Education, on the other hand, has the task of providing certain information to enable families to choose schools. They get to see some of the information about which schools exist, about teacher qualifications and about grades and some other important tasks. However, the Swedish National Agency for Education also provides information that enables the Swedish School Inspectorate to do their job and see which schools to inspect and who needs help and support. It is also of central importance for municipalities when distributing state grants to know which schools should have extra support and where to have socio-economically more vulnerable pupils. The Swedish National Agency for Education instructs SCB to provide the information, produce supporting documents and coordinate registers and then publish the data. Already in the summer of 2019 there were talks between SCB, the Swedish National Agency for Education and Minister Anna Ekström and the Ministry that SCB no longer considered it possible to provide the data publicly due to the new confidentiality rules. SCB also announced that it intended to stop providing information to the Swedish National Agency for Education in October. There were several talks about this. The Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg established in December 2019 that it was correct for SCB to no longer provide the information to the Swedish National Agency for Education. Then, Madam President, absolutely nothing happened. We in the opposition asked questions. Finally, we called – or, as it is called – Minister Anna Ekström to the committee for an account of how these problems could be addressed. Only in mid-June 2020, a full year after SCB told us that they would no longer be able to provide the data, the Swedish National Agency for Education was commissioned to try to find a solution. This is devastating. The slowness shown by the government in such an important and central task as providing information that allows you to pay out state grants and that the School Inspectorate can do its job without precedent. It is important for families to be able to see the quality of schools. As I said, it is also important that state subsidies and other things can be properly distributed. Madam President, I would like That is why we think this matter is a good one. But a year is coming too late, which has had devastating consequences for all of us who want the school to go in the right direction and for all children to pass the school. It is quite clear that this government spends more time and energy day after day and in case after case to hide information from us in the opposition and hide the situation in Swedish schools than to produce the necessary decisions. It is devastating for school development, Madam President.
i-6009480616fce0d8-43	Madam President, I would like I will read aloud from the special opinion of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the opinion of the Education Committee on this report. One of the paragraphs reads as follows:"It has been insinuated that in some way it would be bourgeois parties that stand in the way of information about all Swedish schools being public. It couldn't be more wrong. An inquiry into the principle of public access from 2015 left many question marks. Among other things, it was not clear how to deal with clashes with other laws and not unduly increase the administrative burden on schools. In 2018, the government said they'd come back next year. Now over two years have passed and nothing has yet happened, as we have said countless times. ..................................................... Anyone reading this paragraph may get the impression that bourgeois parties want to introduce the principle of public access to independent schools in Sweden. If Kristina Axén Olin is so eager to introduce transparency and equal treatment in the country's schools, why did she not take the opportunity when we discussed such a proposal in the Education Committee just a few months ago? Why did the Moderates and Christian Democrats not follow up on this proposal when we discussed it in November?
i-6009480616fce0d8-45	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld asks me why we Moderates do not want to introduce the principle of public access. It is very simple, Madam President. The principle of public access is a number of other things than just transparency. The principle of public access also means that all citizens have the right to request a conversation and e-mail about students, questions between the headmaster and parents and a number of things that would be completely impossible for, for example, a smaller free school, as 95% of our free schools actually are. This does not mean that we Moderates do not want data to be public. That's where it's different. The fact that data should be public and that there should be transparency is not the same or completely synchronised with the introduction of the principle of public access. Madam President, I would like I can assure Linus Sköld that the free schools are the first to want the data to be public. They also want to show grade statistics, teacher qualifications and everything we want to be public. This does not mean, however, that we are able to implement the administration of the legislation on the principle of public access. I would like to tell Linus Sköld, Madam President, that it also showed the investigation that was here in Parliament a few years ago. It would be an impossible administrative burden. Madam President, I would like Instead, let us try to find another solution. Linus Sköld would be happy to answer the question: why did it take more than a year from SCB's decision to close the statistics before the government and the Social Democrats came up with a temporary solution?
i-6009480616fce0d8-51	Madam President, I would like Even if you're going to march fast, you've got to do it premeditated. The authorities will then have the opportunity to prepare how to resolve the matter. There were a number of proposals for alternative solutions to achieve the result of the road we have now chosen. With regard to the issue of administration and public disclosure, we have an incredible number of small municipal units. The school in Vistträsk in my municipality of residence has fewer than 20 pupils, but it has to deal with the principle of public access. Why would it be more difficult for an independent principal to handle it than for a tiny headman like Arjeplogs or Älvsbyn's municipality? The answer to that question is still due to Kristina Axén Olin. I imagine the real answer to that question is that Kristina Axén Olin does not want to introduce equal treatment in the Swedish school system at all. She does not want to have the opportunity for citizens to have a fair view of what happens to the tax funds that fund these schools. Instead, Kristina Axén Olin wants to protect at all costs the right of school companies to make unstoppable profits from our common tax funds and students' schooling. That is the real reason why Kristina Axén Olin voted against in the Education Committee when we dealt with a proposal on the principle of public access just a few months ago.
i-6009480616fce0d8-56	Madam President, I would like Now I think Linus Sköld pretends to be more ignorant than he really is. I believe that Linus Sköld is fully aware that municipal schools can take help from the municipality in terms of the principle of public access. In this way, citizens can enter the municipality's civic office, look at computers and get the transparency they want. It is a huge difference from a free school that does not have the ability to use the municipality's computers, information department or communication department. Madam President, I would like My question as to why it took a year from SCB's decision before the Swedish National Agency for Education was commissioned to come up with a solution does not answer Linus Sköld. There's no need for an investigation to give a mission. Of course, before we take decisions in this House, we should then have a proper basis, but that is not the problem here. The problem here is that the government has deliberately waited a whole year – and it has devastating consequences – from the SCB's decision to talk to the government about not being able to do this before Anna Ekström commissions the Swedish National Agency for Education to try to find a solution. It's not okay.
i-6009480616fce0d8-60	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is obvious that statistics at the school level should be public and accessible. This is important in order for authorities and municipalities to have a basis for carrying out their tasks, as we have heard about before. But it is also essential for pupils and parents when choosing a school that they have access to good statistics and relevant information in order to make informed decisions. It is simply a prerequisite for the free choice of school. That is why the report we are debating today on a temporary solution to ensure access to school information is welcome and important. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like SCB amended its privacy policy in 2019. This changed the assessment of which of the data they collected in the framework of official statistics could be disclosed, on the grounds that statistical confidentiality applies to data on the economic situation of individuals. The new policy meant that SCB's data on the passing of independent schools, grading and composition of pupils and more are covered by confidentiality to protect the financial conditions of the individual principal. The Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg made the same assessment as SCB. The changed legal situation and policy that changed after many years of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act has created unimagined consequences that have affected the access of many pupils and parents to school statistics. I have also heard examples of how authorities have been affected in the assessment when, for example, it concerns payments of state subsidies. These are negative consequences that no one has or may have thought was good for Swedish school. Due to the changed legal situation, the Swedish National Agency for Education decided to close its databases on 1 September 2020 that show different data at preschool and school level. However, already on 8 October 2020 the Swedish National Agency for Education announced that the Swedish Agency for Education has made a new legal position that meant that it was able to publish the statistics again at the head and school level that the authority has chosen to depublish on 1 September. It was very welcome that the old information was published again. But it is also unfortunate that it was over a month without them, although the old information was available on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website. Madam President, I would like Ever since the day this issue was raised, the Center Party has been working intensively and constructively to find a solution to the situation that has arisen. We have negotiated the assignments to SCB and the Swedish National Agency for Education to present solutions. Together with the government and the Liberals, we have agreed on the proposal that forms the basis for today's decision. The aim has been to ensure that authorities, municipalities and the public have access to information about school units in the same way as before. It is necessary for Swedish school to function and be possible to control. The proposal in the report provides for a temporary solution with a non-disclosure clause, so that in practice it is the way it looked before the new policy of the SCB and subsequently the decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeal. At the same time, there is now an opportunity to come up with a long-term solution so that we do not again stand in this situation. I understand that there is a broad consensus among all of the parties in the Riksdag and all those interested in Swedish schools that these data should continue to be available. For the Center Party, it is self-evident that school leaders, whether independent or municipal, should be obliged to provide statistical data and all relevant information that has been available up to the current legal situation and that this should be presented at school level. It is crucial not least for parents' and pupils' ability to choose their school and for school authorities to carry out their assignments.
i-6009480616fce0d8-71	Frau President! The debate on the expansion of the large free school groups is quite absurd in Sweden. You want it like the Soviets? This question can be raised if one criticises the fact that Sweden, as the only country in the world, provides the opportunity to make profits from school activities through tax funding. You want a communist society? You can also hear that. The answer is obvious: No, I want it to be like the rest of the world. The debate today is about statistics and school data. But in the end it is about Sweden having the world's most extreme free school system, where we have even gone so far that during 2021 we have classified statistics about schools. Who, then, is laughing at this? Who benefits from this? Well, of course, it's the big players who have something to hide—those who don't want to show that they have more unauthorized teachers in their schools and that they're doing joy certificates. It is the groups that want to hide that they are only there for one thing: that they want to make profits at the expense of our children and the staff at school. From the pulpit here it sounded earlier that all parties agree that statistics from the school should be available. That, of course, is not the case. In November 2020, the Left Party submitted a proposal for a committee initiative aimed at introducing the principle of public access for all actors in the school system. The proposal, which was similar to what the National Board of Education itself proposed, was rejected by the Liberals, the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. This is particularly amusing, because when the School World newspaper called around to all party representatives a few months before the vote and asked whether it wanted the principle of public access or not, it was only two parties who said no. It was the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party. But when it was in Parliament's Education Committee, it was something completely different; then, quite suddenly, a majority of parties wanted to run matters for the groups they represent day in and day out in the Swedish Parliament. Madam President, I would like The school operator has taken responsibility for our children's education. It's hard to imagine something more important mission. We must be confident that all principals take this task very seriously and live up to the common expectations of quality and value. For us in the Left Party, it is an obvious principle that the activities financed by our common funds should also comply with the requirements of openness and transparency. We as citizens should be able to have insight into welfare activities. The principle of public access had been our tool to gain insight into and review the social importance of school activities. It is a flaw in our common welfare that independent schools can now escape this transparency. For us, it is obvious that concepts such as business secrets should not be associated with education or students. Transparency must prevail – for the sake of research, for journalistic scrutiny, for the public to know what is involved in funding and perhaps primarily for the sake of students and staff. All municipal schools were previously subject to the principle of public access. However, this did not apply to independent schools. During the last term of office, the government, in cooperation with the Left Party, presented a proposal for legislation on a principle of public access to all free schools. This led to some obstacles along the way through the Law Council. In fact, however, a memorandum was produced in 2019, in which we resolved the issues that were problematic in the past. Since these investigations and proposals were put forward, the possibility of transparency has been considerably limited – this after a ruling of the Administrative Court of Appeal that we have heard about earlier here today from the pulpit. The judgment prevents SCB from providing statistics relating to free schools as this is now classified as business secrets. Try it! If anyone had heard this in the '70s – that we classify school duties as business secrets – you wouldn't have believed your ears. Since then, the National Agency for Education has classified the statistics of municipal schools because it is thought that it should be the same treatment of municipal and independent schools' data. Madam President, I would like The proposal now being presented, which is about a temporary solution to ensure access to school information, is the Government's proposal for amendments to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act for a limited period of time. This will allow a number of important data on individual principals to be collected. But like the National Board of Education, the National Association of Idea-borne Schools and a number of other actors in the school system, we still believe that the most long-term and reasonable alternative would have been to introduce the principle of public access. On the basis of the current situation, where, unfortunately, the majority of the parties in the Swedish Parliament represent these school groups, the Left Party would prefer the public to receive certain school information rather than no information at all. That is why we have submitted a separate opinion to the report. Madam President, I would like A democratically governed school requires the introduction of the principle of public access and the abolition of the market experiment. The Left Party therefore intends to continue to make proposals with a view to democratising the governance of Swedish schools.
i-6009480616fce0d8-85	Madam President, I would like I and Daniel Riazat from the Left Party agree on one thing, and that is that the Swedish school system is completely unique. There is no country in the world that has the same system as Sweden, namely that it is free for all children to choose school and that no school charges. All other countries, including Norway, Denmark and other neighbouring countries, have always combinations for free schools of fees and state grants. Only in Sweden do we have a system where we in politics think that all children should have the same opportunities. It should not matter where you come from or whether your parents have a good economy, but all children should have the same opportunities to choose the school that suits them. It is unique, and we shall be proud of this system. So far, Madam President, Daniel Riazat and I agree. But then Daniel Riazat continues to spread myths about free schools. He knows about free schools and knows that 95% of free schools are small units with fewer than 100 pupils. Then Daniel Riazat talks about the school market and claims again that it is the free schools that do not want transparency in the business. That's not true, and Daniel Riazat knows it. On the contrary, free schools are often proud of the work you do, the profile you have and the students you have. Free schools have been a driving force and wanted to publish data. But we do not want the administration and the requirements of the law on the principle of public access, but we want to find a different solution. Do not spread myths that free schools want to hinder transparency and profit at the expense of our students! Tell me, Daniel Riazat, which free schools are taking profit at the expense of our students!
i-6009480616fce0d8-89	Madam President, I would like It is a bit parody when a moderate representative is standing in the Riksdag talking about that it is free of charge to go to school in Sweden. After all, the Moderates were totally opposed to this when the fees in Swedish school activities were abolished. The labour movement fought for this to get to a school for all children, not just for some. The Moderates didn't even vote for it back then. It is therefore a bit comical when Kristina Axén Olin takes this up as an argument from the speaker's chair. You can come up with rhetorical tricks here, but at the same time everyone knows by now that the Left Party distinguishes between those players who are only looking to make a profit and those who are here to simply contribute to education and knowledge development in our society. Very many of the free schools that exist today are small actors. Many of them are non-profit actors, cooperatives, foundations or non-profit actors. But we also see the expansion of the profit-making players through the International English School, through Academedia and through a number of other companies that are now growing, starting with the sale of children on the stock exchange. It's increasing considerably. This is not something we can turn a blind eye to. These are things that you obviously have to hide in one way or another. We know that there are fewer qualified teachers in profit-making free schools. We know that they pay lower salaries to their staff. We know that there are more joy certificates in those schools and that they spend less money on teaching materials and on various special rooms in school. Then the question is: Why does Kristina Axén Olin want to continue running errands for these companies and groups?
i-6009480616fce0d8-93	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat won't answer my question. Which free schools collect profits and earn money from our children? What free schools are they? Then Daniel Riazat says something where it is actually almost time for an apology to the free schools. He claims that free schools are involved in the sale of children on the stock exchange. It is not decent, Madam President. I don't know if Daniel Riazat means English School and Academedia, which are some of our absolute best schools and extremely popular in Sweden. To claim that they sell children on the stock exchange is an unacceptable level when you talk about good, popular free schools.
i-6009480616fce0d8-95	Madam President, I would like Of course Kristina Axén Olin wants the focus to disappear from what this is really about. But yes, there are many actors in Sweden today who make big profits from conducting school activities. Member Kristina Axén Olin himself mentioned the International English School; we also have Academedia and a number of other actors that I would say do not belong in Swedish welfare. That they're making a profit isn't a secret. We know that. But then we also know that it has become much more difficult to see how much profit they make and what kind of activity they have. We also know that it is against their interests that all data should be public. That is why Kristina Axén Olin is here today asking for a reply to me, who is the first representative to propose the principle of public access to the Swedish Parliament, which was also supported by the small free school groups. When you ask the National Associations of Idea-borne Schools, they themselves say that the only solution to this problem is to introduce the principle of public access. Why do the Moderates want to go against the little free schools? Why do the Moderates not want to stand behind the National League of Idea-borne Schools? Why do the Moderates not want to stand behind the National Board of Education, the Federation of Teachers, the National Federation of Teachers and all other referrals – apart from those closest to the Moderates and the National Associations of Free Schools – who have been in favour of the principle of public access? Of course, there must then be something to hide, otherwise there would not have been this much time and energy from the Moderates to counteract transparency and publicity in what we are involved in funding: the future of our children. And yes: If we have school activities that are listed, we can only call it one thing, and that is that you sell children on the stock exchange – the end of the story.
i-6009480616fce0d8-99	Madam President, I would like The right to choose a school, the free choice of schools, together with quality and the focus of knowledge are key elements of Christian Democrats' school policy. Students and their parents should have the power to choose for themselves a safe school that they think suits their own children and is of good quality. You should be able to give your children a school that gives them knowledge and opportunities to develop and realize dreams. The school selection should therefore be able to be made informed and based on accurate information about schools' orientation, performance and ability to develop pupils' knowledge over time. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it is serious that important information has not been available. I note that more and more people are now talking about order in school, and that is really good. But there has certainly been no order when it comes to school statistics. It's actually been a circus. It all began with SCB's unexpected announcement in spring 2019 of a new interpretation of what counts as classified information. Criticism was then directed from almost all political parties, from Sweden's Municipalities and Regions and from the National Associations of Free Schools, but in December 2019, as you know, the Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg then stated that data on the throughput, grading and student composition of free schools would be covered by confidentiality. It was also this that led to the Swedish National Agency for Education's assessment that statistics at school level could no longer be published. Madam President, I would like It is thought that the government should then quickly have assumed its responsibilities and acted so that the school statistics could be public as soon as possible. They didn't. It took six months from the judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal before the Government, on 18 June 2020, commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to map and report which legislative changes would be needed to make the statistics available. It was also decided that the assignment should not be reported to the government until 4 September 2020, i.e. four days after the date from which the Swedish National Agency for Education considered that all school statistics had to be removed. The classification of school statistics, which has resulted from the government's slowness and mismanagement of the issue, has made it difficult not only for pupils and parents for school elections but also for the calculation of school money and the allocation of state subsidies. This has made it difficult for such important knowledge evaluations and for the quality review of the Swedish school. Even the School Inspectorate has not been able to carry out proper supervision because school statistics have not been able to form the basis for inspection. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to strengthen free school elections. But for that to be possible, students and parents must be able to make an active and informed school choice, and then data must be comparable. This temporary solution, with an exception in the Public and Confidentiality Act to ensure access to school information, is long awaited. It is about time we got a restorer that will allow information and data to be shared in the same way as before. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report. At the same time, we would like to stress that a permanent confidentiality-breaking rule needs to be put in place as soon as possible so that it continues to be possible to access the data required for good school development, for the review of schools and the distribution of state subsidies and, not least, for pupils and parents to be able to use their right to choose schools to make free, informed and informed school choices.
i-6009480616fce0d8-107	Madam President, I would like Christian Carlsson speaks warmly about transparency, that the necessary information must be able to come out and that we need a long-term proposal so that we do not have this temporary legislation that perhaps none of us wanted from the beginning. When Christian Carlsson's party and its representatives in the Education Committee were asked by the media what they thought about the principle of public access – which is this long-term proposal that avoids temporary solutions – they replied that they are in favour of it. The Christian Democrats are in favour of the principle of public access. In November 2020, the Christian Democrats voted down the Left Party's proposal to introduce the principle of public access, a proposal that was already ready. There are already memos and numerous investigations in the near future. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, the proposal could have been presented at once, and it had ensured the long-term and short-term data. Why did the Christian Democrats say that they are in favour of the principle of public access and then vote against the proposal in the Education Committee and today stand here in the speaker's chair and pretend that we are in favour of having public access to the school information?
i-6009480616fce0d8-111	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are in favour of information about all Swedish schools being public. As I said in my speech, this information is needed to enable schools' activities to be reviewed and compared. It needs to be available, simply. At first sight, it may sound like a good proposal to introduce the principle of publicity to solve the problem. However, it is not certain that direct and general application of such a far-reaching principle as the principle of public access is the right way forward in order to achieve the kind of transparency and publicity that we want to achieve. It was against this background that the Christian Democrats voted against the Left Party's proposal to introduce the very principle of public access. We think that too many questions remain about introducing the principle of public access. One needs to know what clashes with other legislation that would mean. That is why we simply voted against the Left Party proposal.
i-6009480616fce0d8-114	Madam President, I would like At Christian Carlsson it sounds like this was the first time that the Christian Democrats had heard about the principle of public access. It was not known what the proposal would mean. This has not deliberately lied to the media, but at first glance it has been thought that this would be a good idea but changed two weeks later. That, of course, is not the case. The proposal on the principle of public access has also existed in the past, and the Christian Democrats have been opposed to introducing it in the past. But when you came to the media part, Christian Carlsson's party was careful to say that you want transparency and that there should be a principle of public access – something that they then voted against. It's gonna be a little funny. Local schools have previously been subject to the principle of public access. Why should the independent schools not be able to do so? To prevent, because I am not allowed to reply or ask for a reply once more: the argument may be that small players will find it difficult. The national federations of small operators have already supported the Left Party's proposal, which is the principle of public access. The National Board of Education has backed it. All the unions have supported it. The student organisations have supported it. Every consultation body except the Free Schools Federation has supported it. I'll ask the question again to get a straighter answer. The question is therefore why the Christian Democrats say that they want openness, transparency and transparency but vote against the principle of public access.
i-6009480616fce0d8-119	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Christian Democrats want transparency. We want data to be public. But today's decision, in which the Riksdag agrees on an exception to allow the publication of the data, is proof that this transparency can be achieved in ways other than through the Left Party's proposal to introduce the principle of public access. If you want to find a permanent solution, which the government must do, you should focus on what tasks need to be public and then come back to Parliament with suggestions on how to get a permanent solution. With regard to the proposal on the principle of public access, we believe that it is too blunt and too far-reaching. Nor is there any support for that particular solution. We need to come up with proposals that are more precise and can gain support in this House, because we agree that the important school information should be public.
i-6009480616fce0d8-122	Madam President, I would like I and the Liberals are in favour of the Constitutional Committee's proposal that we ensure, through this confidentiality-breaking measure, that we can access the data that our school authorities need to follow up the important school activities throughout the country, regardless of the principal. We have falling knowledge results in Sweden in grade 6. Thankfully, we have now introduced previous grades in comprehensive school so that we get a better overview of the development of the lower ages in comprehensive school. We have problems with joy certificates. We have a problem with grade inflation. We have a lack of quality within and between schools, and we have schools and actors who misbehave – both municipal and independent schools. We also have extensive problems with educational segregation, i.e. students' access to trained, qualified teachers. Of comprehensive school pupils, 85 per cent go to municipal schools and 15 per cent to individual, independent schools. Approximately 70 per cent of upper secondary school pupils attend municipal upper secondary schools and 30 per cent go to independent upper secondary schools. In municipal comprehensive school, the proportion is 30 per cent and in independent comprehensive school 40 per cent. This background, Madam President, shows that we have a great need at national level not to rely solely on the International Measurement of Knowledge Pisa. Unfortunately, given the debate over the last few weeks, we cannot fully rely on those figures. Therefore, we need data, statistics and data that our municipalities and free schools follow up on an individual level and report to the National Board of Education. It is regrettable, as many have said, that the Central Statistical Office, through its policy change, has contributed to the uncertainty and debate that has triggered these political activities in the Government Office. I agree that a great deal of these proposals could have been brought to Parliament in the areas of legislation. But we also saw that the government could make its own decisions about the school regulation – or the school register, as it is called – to re-publish which schools we have, where they are, who drives them and what direction they have. I believe that to some extent the government deserves criticism. But so is the Swedish National Agency for Education, which through its actions – and non-action, Madam President – contributed to the uncertainty that was created throughout the entire Swedish School. Not only did it have an impact on the free schools that house 15 percent of the country's primary school pupils, but the effect was total and outstripted all available statistics for municipal activities as well. Liberals are strong supporters of, and we are actively pushing, to nationalize the school. The state must be the principal of the Swedish school system, and it is the state that must have full control in terms of quality monitoring and supervision. To some extent, through the State School Inspection, there is a mission to monitor the quality, results and development of Swedish schools based on the rules of the School Act. I can guarantee that the State's school inspection has the opportunity to go in and take part in tasks and review everything from staff density, competence, finance, management to governance. All the information they want to check can be checked. The Swedish National Board of Education also has follow-up databases where, through its own reviews, thematic reviews, quality follow-ups, you can go in and support municipalities and principals, including free schools, through Collaboration for best schools, if there is a lack of knowledge and a lack of results. In the past, through the introduction of establishment control for independent schools, including the decisions that went up to the Riksdag a few years ago, the Liberals have created a municipal transparency right for municipal authorities, a school board or a high school board, to contact independent schools within their own municipality to update themselves on the progress of pupils at all schools. It's central to remind me of. Madam President, I would like The most important thing for us is that through the agreement that we have contributed to, and which is now at the table of the Riksdag, we have ensured that all the information that existed in 2019, before SCB's policy decision, will be communicated by the Swedish National Agency for Education to the Swedish State School Inspection, which has an audit mission. Then, through the forthcoming change in the Publicity and Confidentiality Act, we have ensured that our school authorities can fulfil their mission according to the School Act. Today's proposal ensures the mandate of our municipal authorities when they follow up, allocate state subsidies and allocate resources for special support, including by taking into account socio-economic factors. That is why we are calling for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-132	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Roger Haddad two questions. Roger Haddad mentioned from the speaker's seat that the Liberals want to nationalize the school. So does the Left Party. How does nationalisation work when all the profit groups involved in the debate today are to remain at the same time? How can this be called a nationalisation of the school if all these actors are to remain? Have I misunderstood what the Liberals stand for in this matter? Let me return to nuclear material, that is, school statistics. I would like to reiterate the question I have put in previous debates to Roger Haddad and to Christian Carlsson from the Christian Democrats. Liberals have said warmly that transparency and public data are to be welcomed. Later today, we in this House are voting in favour of the temporary confidentiality-breaking legislation. It is simply a compromise. Why did the Liberals, who call themselves a school party that cares about the future of children, schools, education and the development of knowledge, vote against the principle of public access? It was a proposal put forward by the Left Party, which, in principle, all the actors in the world of schools have advocated, except for the National Associations of Free Schools. Why did Roger Haddad vote no?
i-6009480616fce0d8-135	Madam President, I would like It was unfortunate that the Left Party at the time carried out the municipalization of the Swedish school together with the Social Democrats. We have been critical of this, and that is why that system must be changed. On the question of state ownership, this is about municipal activities. The directive states that independent schools should not be closed down, as the Left Party may wish, but should be housed in a state model where, for example, the Swedish National Agency for Education allocates resources. I think it will be more uniform and more legally certain to have an actor. It will be purer and more transparent. But an investigation is underway. Then there was the issue of school statistics and confidentiality. We do not know exactly what the Left Party's principle of publicity applies. In that definition, you add several things, and that is why there was no agreement after the 2014 elections. You and the Social Democrats supplemented those proposals with your left-wing party elements, which I mean pushed the whole project down. I'm sorry about that. This debate, Madam President, concerns the fact that the Liberals will ensure that all the data available in 2019 on pupils' performance, composition, learning outcomes, grades, teacher density, etc. will be fully accessible to the school authorities who need the data. It is the most important contribution that the Liberals can make to ensure a good and transparent approach to the activities.
i-6009480616fce0d8-139	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has for many years been pushing the issue of nationalisation of schools. We have also regretted that we contributed to the municipalisation of the Swedish school. It's not something we're hiding. The Left Party has been open about this, and I have pointed this out in a number of debates. When it comes to statistics and public access, it is still funny. Just as Christian Carlsson from the Christian Democrats pretended, Liberal representatives pretend that they do not know what the principle of public access is. The principle of public access is a method used in municipal schools. That is something that is well-known, and it is not something that we have supplemented in any way, but there is a definition and a legislation that would have been ready to be presented if the Liberals had voted in favour. You might think that when you call yourself Sweden's school party – which few think nowadays – you should vote for total transparency. Just because we are voting today in favour of temporarily re-establishing the availability of the statistics that were open before it was classified, does not mean that this is the best option. On the contrary! The principle of public access is, according to all the actors active in the world of schools, the most long-term proposal and the best solution that could have been put forward. Does Roger Haddad know more than all unions, teachers' unions, the National Board of Education and the National Association of Idea-borne Schools? How does Roger Haddad feel about the matter? Are you on more competence in the issues than the actors?
i-6009480616fce0d8-143	Madam President, I would like The liberals have from day one when the issue was highlighted in autumn 2019 through written questions to the government called for changes to regulations and regulations to ensure that all school authorities will have access to information about individual pupils at school, municipal and main level. Everything should be open to transparency and follow-up. This is the interesting thing, not the principle of public access. It is totally irrelevant in this debate, which is about how we, from the political side, can ensure that all the data that was available before SCB's crazy new assessment contributed to the problems can be restored so that all the authorities have access to all the data. I have asked questions to the Director-General of the National Agency for Education in the Education Committee, but I have also met representatives of the Swedish Agency for Education and Statistics and, of course, ensured that with this system, with the proposal that I will vote in favour of this afternoon, all the information that we have had access to will also be available after today's decision. I welcome that. The rules apply from 1 July. It is clear from the report that if this proves to be working well, it should be permanent. Let us come back to that question.
i-6009480616fce0d8-146	Madam President, I would like School data are business secrets. How did that happen? Well, the Central Statistical Office made a routine decision that read the law and made an interpretation that should have been valid for some time. It is the case that data in the statistics may not be disclosed if it may be to the detriment of any individual. It could be a person or a company. This is how SCB writes in the historical and central decision that is why we stand here today: Although the data separately can be said to be harmless, according to SCB's assessment it is not unthinkable that they, seen together, may affect potential students' choice of school in a way that results in harm to an individual free school. What is meant is that if parents knew how bad things were going to be, the free schools could lose money. It could harm the free-school companies if the SCB provided information showing that the schools are not good. So the information is secret. They're business secrets. It's a business secret how profit schools make profits. It is business secrets, for example, what the teacher density looks like, how small the schoolyards are and how you have cut down in student health. So one should probably have read the law for some time, for the courts found that this interpretation is the right one. I think it took some time to understand it, because it is not intuitive that school is a business. It is not natural to think that it should be secret how the tax money that we jointly collect and invest in our children's education. That is not how it works in any other welfare activity. In fact, every time the state distributes money to private companies that have the function of public authority, i.e. to make decisions for the state, there is a requirement in the law for public access to information about how the money is used or decisions are made. This applies to organisations such as Chalmers University of Technology. It is subject to the principle of publicity. The School of Economics is subject to the principle of public access. The National Association of Visually Impaired Persons is subject to the principle of public access. Stim, the Swedish Sports Federation and companies carrying out your car inspection are subject to the principle of publicity. We have jointly decided that this should be the case, and the basis for that is that it is we who jointly pay. In addition, it is the exercise of public authority that these private-law companies and associations carry out on their behalf. We in the Green Party have long wanted the free schools that give grades and are funded by tax money to be included in this list in the law. If it had been done when we made such a proposal, when Gustav Fridolin was Sweden's first environmental-partisan minister of education, we would not be standing in this Chamber today and having these problems. Then the Ministry of Education, in the midst of a burning pandemic and crisis, would not have had to devote resources to developing the temporary solution that we are discussing today. It is a temporary solution that is absolutely necessary even if, like me and the Green Party, you want to see the principle of public access in Swedish schools. The principle of public access is not straightforward. It means, of course, that you need to keep your papers in order. Diarium and archive systems are required, and these take time to implement. Although we would have liked to have introduced the principle of public access, we would have needed a temporary solution in this emergency situation. That is why I am in favour of today's proposal. However, today's proposal does not solve all the problems, and today's proposal creates new problems. One example of something that is most likely not to be public based on today's decision is data on the size of the schoolyards, which I think is important information to have. It remains to be seen, for the decisions are not tested, but that is at least what the lawyers suspect. Several parties want what was previously public to be that, but nothing more. We in the Green Party want the principle of publicity to apply. We want more to be public. We want more transparency on how our tax money is spent. I think it would help us to understand how it is that grade inflation is so great in free schools. I think it would make it easier to review the certificates of joy, to mention just one example. I also think it would make it easier for us parents when we choose school for our children. At least I want to know how the schoolyards are planned in relation to the number of students. I think it's an important task what the schoolyards look like, because it affects my child's ability to play and my child's ability to move. Right now we have a trend towards smaller and smaller schoolyards. These were just two examples of the value of transparency and publicity. Another current example is what happens when there are abuses. I'm sure we've all followed the scandal of the nurse at Attendo who sounded the alarm when you didn't do what it took to save lives. Publicity is serious. Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party will continue to work towards a permanent solution with the principle of public access. As I said, this temporary solution is necessary, but it does come with a number of problems. It is a unique hole in statistical confidentiality, and statistical confidentiality is important for people to be able to rely on data provided in surveys used for statistical purposes not being disseminated. It is very sensitive information that we ask citizens to tell us about: health, vulnerability, even about their own sexuality or about crimes that you may have committed yourself. These are tasks that people will not be as inclined to give out if they know they can be shared with more. Statistical confidentiality is a basis for us to have stable political decision-making on good grounds. That is why we in the Green Party do not want to use this solution any more than is necessary. Madam President, I would like In the long term it is not necessary. We have another solution such as the teachers' unions, the National Board of Education, the National Association of Idea-borne Schools, we in the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Left Party and many citizens think would be reasonable. Let us work towards the introduction of the principle of public access also for the independent schools that have our trust, receive our tax funds, take decisions in the exercise of public authority and are responsible for the future of thousands of children.
i-6009480616fce0d8-161	Madam President, I would like The issue of targeted and general state subsidies has been discussed many times in this House. The Moderates have two important principles in terms of state aid to municipalities and regions. Firstly, we believe that contributions should be more permanent and not temporary. We note that the Konjunkturinstitutet also points to the same thing, i.e. that contributions to municipalities should be permanent in order to have an impact on employment and investment. Temporary contributions risk saving the money of municipalities and regions and do not dare to use them for what is meant, as this may lead to permanent cost increases, for example in order to retain potential new employees. Secondly, we Moderates see a problem with an excessive proportion of targeted state subsidies. In 2018, our current Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko was chairman of the then SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Council. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet in April 2018, she and the management of SKL concluded that the targeted state grants were a growing problem. In the article, Sweden's citizens and the Swedish welfare cannot afford to continue with inefficient efforts in the form of targeted state grants. It was suggested that general state subsidies should be the general rule. Unfortunately, the minister responsible does not seem to have taken on board what she herself wrote in 2018. The targeted state grants continue to constitute an excessive part of the total state subsidies. On the other hand, the criticism of a too large proportion of targeted state subsidies is something that we in the Moderates have taken on board in our latest budget exercise, where, in addition to adding more money than the government, we are also redistributing targeted state subsidies to general ones. Madam President, I would like The matter we are now debating relates to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of a specifically defined area, namely the Government's work with 30 targeted state grants aimed at supporting socio-economically vulnerable areas in various ways. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the state's basic starting point for grants is that state grants should be provided as general grants and that targeted state grants are not normally intended to solve the underlying problems of segregation and inequality. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that possible solutions instead exist in, for example, how municipal financial compensation grants are designed, how labour market and education policies are conducted or how housing construction is regulated. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that many of the problems that have long existed with the targeted state grants remain, for example, that state grants result in operations being planned during time and carried out, to be later phased out and replaced with activities financed by new state grants. It becomes twitchiness instead of continuity and perseverance. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that there is a need for greater interest and knowledge in local needs and conditions in order for state grants to achieve their respective objectives of reduced segregation, increased equivalence and increased equality. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the Government Office does not have guidelines or guidance on how targeted state grants should be designed. There is also a lack of systematic monitoring and analysis. It's pretty serious criticism. The Swedish National Audit Office has concrete proposals. They propose to increase the share of multi-annual state grants in order to improve municipalities' ability to plan and implement new initiatives. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that analyses should be carried out prior to the introduction of new state grants to find out how they might affect local work in socio-economically vulnerable areas. The Swedish National Audit Office also wants to improve the follow-up of state grants, including by monitoring how they are received in the affected areas. Such an analysis is necessary. The Moderates agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. Among other things, in our own budget exercise, as I mentioned earlier, we have started work on reducing the proportion of targeted state grants in favour of general grants to municipalities. In response to the letter, the Moderates would like to urge the Government to start work in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's summary recommendation. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-171	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report on targeted state grants for socio-economically vulnerable areas has not attracted any further interest, and it is only regrettable. The fact that Sweden has gone from being a pioneer country where security and cohesion have been key words to having several socio-economically vulnerable areas, or in another word alienation areas, is a disgrace. Socio-economically vulnerable areas are created by today's policies as well as yesterday's. Major financial investments have not been lacking, but just as the Swedish National Audit Office points out, the investments are twitchy, temporary and without long-term perspective. At the same time, too many people ask what society can do for them instead of what it can do for society. Equality and freedom are achieved when you can make a living and really choose how you want to live. Child poverty, which is too widespread in Sweden today, is usually due to the fact that parents do not have sufficient income. Criminal gangs of young people arise for a number of reasons, but no one will thank us for not making enough demands on young people today. To make a living through crime must stop being an alternative in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats want to see fewer targeted state subsidies. Overall, we are sceptical about some targeted state subsidies, as the positive effects are doubtful in relation to the investments. We believe that analyses should be carried out for the introduction of new targeted state subsidies. We also believe that the targeted state grants provided should be multi-annual in order to improve the capacity of municipalities and regions to plan and implement new initiatives. We also believe that improved analysis and reporting of the impact of targeted state grants is needed to increase accuracy. This may seem obvious, but targeted state subsidies are today about trying to put out fires rather than about correcting major structural societal problems. Sweden has a relatively new situation where large groups do not get into work at all. In particular, many immigrant women and groups from Africa and the Middle East do not work for various reasons. The fact that large groups do not work is costly, both for society and for the individual. In macroeconomic terms, high unemployment leads to lower tax revenues, while the cost of benefits and other related unemployment increases. At the individual level, life without employment leads to poverty, difficulty learning Swedish and difficulty in becoming part of Swedish society. We know from research that poverty increases the risk of both physical and mental diseases. Life expectancy is also lower for these groups. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to see greater clarity in that a life in Sweden is not a life lived on a contribution. Financial assistance, whatever its form, shall be a temporary emergency measure. Moving to Sweden should be the same as being willing to contribute to our common well-being by taking the jobs that exist. Moving to Sweden should be the same as making yourself employable, among other things by learning Swedish. Moving to Sweden should simply be the same as being prepared to do your duty and then be able to claim your right. Last spring, at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, the government congratulated itself on reducing unemployment. I then asked the question of how many workers are self-sufficient, which is a much more important figure than how many are in work. The answer I got from the government was that you don't measure it. Madam President, I would like It is unfortunate that we do not have a clear limit when one is considered self-sufficient. Only by knowing how many people are not self-sufficient can we review what efforts, support and grants we need in Sweden. The best way to reduce segregation and instead increase equivalence and equality is for individuals to support themselves. There is no equality if you cannot support yourself or your children. The focus ahead with targeted state grants should be to get people to become self-sufficient. Sweden is one of the countries with the biggest employment gaps between native and foreign born. I would like to explain in this way that, without making up figures, it is no wonder that there are groups that end up in the socio-economically vulnerable areas, and from there it is difficult to get around. The municipal levelling system is a system that clearly shows inequality in Sweden and how we tighten it every year. Sweden is very large on the surface, and in sparsely populated areas and small towns it is difficult to get a job. As long as we choose not to invest in the whole of Sweden to live, with the opportunity to make a living in smaller towns, we need a levelling system. But it is bad, very bad, when Sweden's third largest city, Malmö, requires huge contributions through the municipal levelling system in order not to go bankrupt. In October it was announced that Malmö has the highest unemployment rate in the country. In the group of foreign born persons, 28.3 per cent were unemployed. Madam President, I would like The fact that it is difficult to find a job in sparsely populated areas is unfortunately not surprising given how Sweden has been centered around the big cities. But that so many do not work in a big city like Malmö is a structural problem that needs to be addressed through our contributions, targeted or not targeted. If almost 30 per cent of foreign born in Malmö do not work at all, you can think that the figure for self-sufficient is even more disappointing. In conclusion, I would like to point out that although the Swedish Democrats advocate clarity towards those who come to Sweden and broad general state aid to municipalities and regions, targeted state aid will be needed to some extent. Then it is important that these are preceded by a thorough analysis of their impact and a serious follow-up of what has worked. With this, I am in favour of our reservation.
i-6009480616fce0d8-191	Madam President, I would like Not everyone has the same opportunities in life. We Social Democrats have always strived for an equal society in which every person has the opportunity to participate in society and create a good life. There is a need for a strong welfare that gives all people a level playing field. Support for municipalities and regions is crucial in this work. But, of course, it should be done right. That is why the Swedish National Audit Office's report that we are discussing here today is important. Has the targeted state subsidies to socio-economically vulnerable areas led to what they were intended for? What lessons can we draw in order to best shape future support? What do we learn from the Swedish National Audit Office's report? Conclusion 1: General state aid is preferable, as it allows municipalities and regions to design aid on the basis of local conditions. This is the view of the Swedish National Audit Office, and it is based on the Government and the Riksdag. Conclusion 2: Long-term is crucial. That should be a matter of course. Short-term operations or state grants shall be planned from the outset to be included in the regular project or support if the project or support proves to be working. Otherwise, they must be designed to test a new way of working. Therefore, targeted state subsidies should be decidedly reduced. At the same time, society is changing, and in order to find new ways of working, targeted state subsidies will also be needed in the future. But then there should be a planned continuation. Conclusion 3: We need to know what the local conditions are when state grants are designed or provide the conditions for it to be done in the way that gives the best effect right there. Conclusion 4: Analyses and better knowledge can never be overestimated. If we do not dare to ask, measure, be honest and analyse our efforts, we cannot know for sure what works. With increased knowledge, we can become wiser, change and do more right in the future. I agree with all these conclusions, and I recognise myself, not only as Commissioner, but above all in my job. I myself have worked in projects such as the state grants have been intended for. In addition to this, I would like to point out that smaller municipalities often find it more difficult to benefit from targeted state subsidies despite the fact that they do not need less state aid. How we design aid is thus a question of equality. Madam President, I would like There have been justified criticisms from municipalities and regions of the excessive number of targeted state subsidies. I can understand that. It is, of course, a question of being able to make the best use of the money and subsidies. Sometimes what is needed in a municipality is not exactly what the state grants are intended for. That is why a redistribution should take place. The government has started work on a more strategic governance of targeted state grants. In this work, the Swedish National Audit Office's views and recommendations will of course be included. I am proud to have a government that understands and acts for improved efforts to combat social problems – with strong security systems, welfare first and the power to work towards a stronger society. I am also proud to live in a society with the social model that Sweden has, where local self-government is a natural part and where there is a municipal levelling system for municipalities and regions across the country to have the opportunity to offer care, school and care on equal terms. If the whole of Sweden is to live and have good conditions, it is necessary that there are opportunities to have the same goals with different means that are adapted to the local conditions. Politicians and officials in Linköping, Ödeshög and Storuman have different challenges, and they know best how they are met. With the change in cost compensation decided by the Riksdag in autumn 2019, better opportunities and conditions for a more equal balance are provided, but we are not yet there. There is still too much difference between the conditions of municipalities. We should do something about that. Madam President, I would like The efforts and opportunities of municipalities and regions are crucial for well-being. They are crucial to ensuring that all citizens receive good care, education and care. Our goal is to do everything we can to ensure that all municipalities are good municipalities and that all regions should be good regions. By continuing to strive for more equal conditions throughout the country, we can together build a stronger society. But what is needed to get us there? Yes, prevention is crucial to meeting the challenges of the future. Together with municipalities and regions, we need to improve school results and tackle school segregation, ensure good and equal welfare and give people hope for the future. In this work, we need to help steer resources and efforts. We know that unequal care costs more money than an equal. Both people and economics benefit if we can steer even more towards an equal society that prevents more. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, the rifts in society have become clear, and when it is over, we should not go back to the situation we had before. We will build society stronger, and we will do so by working Sweden out of the crisis. When we debate here today targeted contributions to socio-economically vulnerable areas, jobs are perhaps one of the most important things. We are now making strong investments in education and labour market policies to equip people. More people are coming to work. It is one of the most important pieces of the puzzle in breaking exclusion, because it is only when everyone who can work also that we lay the foundation for our common welfare – a welfare that creates a level playing field for all people. Now we want to continue building the secure society with more in jobs and increased resources for welfare. So we want to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-6009480616fce0d8-209	Madam President, I would like I have no problem agreeing with Eva Lindh about the beautiful words she points out in her speech: welfare first, all of Sweden will live, working Sweden out of the crisis. However, it becomes almost a bit tragic given the reality. Welfare first, says a representative of the big government party while welfare is the part that has received the least money from the government in all budgets in principle since the government took office in 2014. The whole of Sweden should live, says at the same time as politics is almost clinically focused on hitting the countryside and on the opportunity to live and work outside the cities. Work Sweden out of the crisis, says a representative of the government that has failed so completely with the jobs. Sweden has almost the worst development in the labour market across the EU. We would be the best country in the EU by 2020, according to future Prime Minister Löfven. Today, then, we are among the very worst. We have had the worst development in the EU as a whole over the past year, and only a few countries in the EU have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. Thus, Sweden now has higher unemployment than the EU average, which we have not had at all since joining the EU. Despite this, Eva Lindh says that we will work Sweden out of the crisis. That doesn't make any sense. Returning to the very subject of this debate, Eva Lindh lists all the problems of targeted state subsidies that I also mentioned in my speech. I would like to ask Eva Lindh a question: how many billions have the Social Democrats changed in their last budget from targeted to general state subsidies?
i-6009480616fce0d8-216	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Jan Ericson! Of course we strengthen welfare all the time and have done so in every budget. So does Jan Ericson. We have hired more people in welfare and will continue to do so because the Social Democrats always put welfare first. The jobs, like I said, are an incredibly important question. It is the same there: we have made great efforts, and we have higher employment than we have for a very, very long time. I would like to ask Jan Ericson a question: how do the weakenings – really big cuts – benefit in the security systems and investment in jobs that the Moderates always and still have in the budgets a strengthening of jobs and welfare? I wonder.
i-6009480616fce0d8-219	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Eva Lindh succeeded in everything but answering my question, so I repeat: how much money did you convert from directed to general state contributions in your last budget, given that Eva Lindh here in the debate claims that this is the focus of the government? Then I want to know how much you did with this job in the last budget. When it comes to strengthening welfare, just read inside the budget and see how much money the Social Democrats have spent on welfare in their recent budgets linked to and compared to what has been spent on other things. Compared to which party of the Social Democrats and the Moderates has spent the most money on the welfare of their budgets, you can see that it is the Moderates who have put the most money into this. You can also look at developments in the labour market and how things went during the alliance years, despite the financial crisis, and how things have turned out for today's government. Then it is quite clear that this government has failed compared to the success of the moderate-led government. Unfortunately, Eva Lindh, the reality is that the Social Democrats are not succeeding either in their welfare or in their jobs. My question is once again: how much money did you make in your last budget from targeted to general state subsidies? If Eva Lindh doesn't know this, she can admit it, but if she knows it, I'd like to know how much it was.
i-6009480616fce0d8-224	Madam President, I would like Firstly, Jan Ericson, a great deal has been done to combine state subsidies and simplify administrative procedures. In the field of education in particular, major efforts have been made to move from targeted state grants to more general ones, but exactly how many crowns are involved I cannot answer. Secondly, we do not have the same picture of how it looks. We have a very high level of employment and we have done a great deal to reduce unemployment. We have also strengthened well-being very much during the last two terms of office that we have run. We will do so in the future, and people can feel confident about that. Then I would just like to say briefly that it is always easy to criticise when you are in opposition. I find it interesting that Jan Ericson is so very critical of targeted state grants when the latest money that the Moderates, along with others, proposed was actually a targeted state grant. Of course, it is always up to evidence when it comes to speaking and then doing what you say you should do. I agree with the National Audit Office. We will continue to work to strengthen well-being in order for more people to go to work. In order to simplify for regions and municipalities, we need more general state subsidies and less targeted ones. Targeted state grants shall be long-term.
i-6009480616fce0d8-228	Madam President, I would like General state grants are always, of course, preferable, but there is a risk that general state grants will go to tax reductions in bourgeois municipalities. With targeted state grants, the state can govern that the money goes to what it is intended, as the Swedish National Audit Office also states. However, targeted state grants are sometimes designed so that they are not searchable for those who have the greatest need. This is particularly true for smaller municipalities. It is difficult to apply or there are no resources available for compensation for any such requirements. This applies, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out, to finding the right balance between trust in the respective control that the municipalities use the money for what is intended. State subsidies that go to addressing the causes of poverty and segregation are of course always the best, but we also have to work to address the problems it causes. But what we most need is a policy to ensure that we do not have socio-economically vulnerable areas. It is about housing policy, employment policy, social policy and, not least, school. The threatening market rents will separate our residential areas even more. We need a redistribution of resources and greater general state subsidies to municipalities with great needs. We need a policy for everyone and not just for a few. No child should have to grow up in poverty. But if we have targeted state subsidies, they have to be designed so that they hit right. During the last term of office, I was a municipal councillor in Uppsala Municipality. There we could see that there were quite a few targeted state subsidies that administrations and boards did not seek. By strengthening our finance department and applying for the state grants that the municipality could apply for, state grants increased more than the cost of the expanded economics staff. It is something that is more difficult to do for the small municipality or for a municipality with a lack of resources. It is often expensive to be poor. This applies to both the little man and a municipality. The searchable state grants for socio-economically vulnerable areas were important for us in Uppsala to make the investments in the districts Gottsunda and Valsätra that we wanted to make. The state grant of SEK 16 million was a welcome reinforcement to the municipality's own resources. When the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats for 2019 were voted through, these state grants disappeared, and the municipality had to revise its plan and budget. This shows how important it is that state subsidies are long-term, whether general or targeted. When the Riksdag decided on the so-called napkin sketch and thus closed the Delegation against segregation, it had a major impact on the work of this authority," says Riksrevisionen. The agency lost competence, and the business stopped. The decision to wind up also affected the economic conditions in municipalities, regions and non-profit associations and foundations, as this meant that the state grants allocated by the authority last year were not granted. And the long-term state grants of seven years were also withdrawn. This is written by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report. The bourgeois short-term policy is a major threat to the ability of targeted state subsidies to become long-term and possible for municipalities and regions to count on, although it also applies to general state subsidies. Madam President, I would like When the Left Party cooperated with the government last term of office, we pushed through the summer holiday subsidy. In the summer of 2018, approximately 76,000 children participated in an activity that was financed in full or in part through the state grant for holiday activities. This is shown by the Swedish National Audit Office's review. In 2020 there was no state grant for holiday activities, and most municipalities reduced their summer holiday activities. Of the 229 municipalities that responded to a survey, 169 reported that the lack of support led to fewer activities. 17 municipalities organised nothing at all. In the municipalities that organised activities, several activities were instead subject to a fee, for example in Sorsele, where the municipality introduced a fee of SEK 500 for the swimming school that had previously been free of charge. The targeted state grants for holiday activities have been a successful initiative, and it is gratifying that there is a majority in the Riksdag for this year as well. Targeted state grants for socio-economically vulnerable areas are, according to the National Audit Office's review, successful when they are easy to search and account for and are seen as a bonus, as the state grant for activities, and when they are designed for long-term results and the municipalities themselves can determine how they want to work with the purpose of the grant and thus be able to integrate it into their existing work. The recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office makes based on its review to the Government are well balanced. The government states that it will take on board the recommendations in its development of more strategic governance. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-6009480616fce0d8-240	Madam President, I would like The first reason I asked for a reply is because I feel that both I and the Left Party Member probably have a need to make certain things clear to Eva Lindh. The money we provided for crisis measures calls Eva Lindh targeted state subsidies. The intention is that they will continue later, but that for budgetary reasons they must be included as a crisis measure in the amending budgets that we have made in the Committee on Finance. Then the idea on our part, on the part of the Moderates, is that these are bets that will then continue. Then I am referring to the investments in care for the elderly. I believe that Ilona Szatmari Waldau shares my view that these are things that we want to continue with in the future. Then there will also be general state subsidies. We have all had a special situation during the pandemic which means that we have done very many temporary things in these crisis budgets. We have decided on 16 – 17 amending budgets, and of course it is a very special year. However, when Eva Lindh concludes that this means introducing targeted state subsidies and not keeping up with its promise to introduce general state subsidies instead, I actually think that it lands a little wrong. I also have an objection to Ilona Szatmari Waldau. The closure of public authorities and the withdrawal of state subsidies do not mean that you do not live up to the principle of long-termism and that you do not want general subsidies. If there are poor state subsidies and authorities that one does not think are needed, one must also be able to adjust this. It is a problem that we have that a government can decide to introduce new authorities and new state subsidies that we as opposition do not believe in. Then we must also have an opportunity to change that. I do not think this is against the aim of general state aid. I would like to hear Ilona Waldaus's views on this.
i-6009480616fce0d8-244	Madam President, I would like I thank Jan Ericson for the question. I do not intend to engage in discussions with another Member during a change of line between myself and Mr Ericson. I think that was a little bit under the belt of a person who is now unable to enter the debate. On the other hand, the Left Party's view is that general state subsidies need to be increased, both in the care of the elderly and in schools and in many other areas. As for the authority Delmos and the so-called napkin sketch, i.e. the budget passed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats for 2019, the consequence was that many municipalities, including Uppsala, lost SEK 16 million on a board. It was not known whether or not they would come and what would actually happen to the state subsidies promised when they were removed by three parties voting in favour of this budget. What I said about the problems with the closure of the agency and what happened was taken directly from the National Audit Office's review, which we are debating here and now. It is not something that I have made up, but it was taken directly from the Swedish National Audit Office's review of how problems arose when it came to what had been distributed not being paid out when the agency was to be wound up instead and the long-term state grant of seven years was withdrawn and the problems created when a liquidation was started before the government decided that the agency would remain and that it would start paying out again. This is still a problem because it has not been caught up. This has created problems and is still creating problems for us.
i-6009480616fce0d8-248	Madam President, I would like My first speech was not really aimed at criticising anyone. It was more aimed at highlighting that even during a crisis projects could be launched through targeted state grants with the intention that they should then be made general. That was my point with this post. Of course, the decommissioning of an authority will have an effect. The very idea of winding up an authority is to save this money and use the resources more efficiently. But it is also the current government that is responsible for managing such decommissioning in a sensible way. Obviously, this did not happen today's government. The decision was made in the budget that this authority should be decommissioned, but then the government decided that it should not be decommissioned. It opposed the decision and did not want to deal with it in a sensible way so that it worked for the municipalities. For example, the parts of the contributions that would continue to be paid out could have been redirected to another authority when this authority was wound up. That would have been the case if you had acted seriously as a government, I think. The responsibility for the municipalities' mess is therefore with the current government, not with those who made the decision to phase out the agency. I therefore think that Ilona Szatmari Waldau is pointing her criticism in the wrong direction in this. On the other hand, I can agree that it is unfortunate for municipalities if they do not know what is happening in connection with the decommissioning of an authority and if the activity that should remain is not transferred to other authorities, which take over responsibility. That's what you usually do when you wind up an authority. So it is only to be regretted that the government is handling this so badly.
i-6009480616fce0d8-253	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting to hear how Moderate Jan Ericson blames and blames the government for something that the bourgeois achieved by voting through a budget that was not supported by the current government, either the one who sat then or the one who then took office. Then came a period when a new government would be formed and made its decisions, such as not closing down this authority. It is none other than the Moderates and Christian Democrats who, through their budget – through a simple pen stroke on a napkin – managed to ensure that the municipalities lived in uncertainty for several months. We are both critical of this government, in many different ways, but the budget voted by this Parliament thanks to the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, with passive support from the Centre Party and the Liberals, caused major problems for both the state and for the regions and for the municipalities. Among other things, this was done by simply removing targeted state subsidies and saving them. Authorities charged with developing targeted state subsidies were closed down. Then they stand here and say that it is a failure that there are no long-term targeted state subsidies in the right way – when it was the Moderates themselves who created this chaos on the authority that had the mission. I think it is very strong for the honourable Member to stand here and blame himself.
i-6009480616fce0d8-256	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates support all our reservations in this report. However, I only support reservation 2. Something is breaking up in Sweden. It was the slogan of the Social Democrats when they tried to win the elections. The election was won, and then something actually broke in Sweden. There are many who testify to the feeling that trust, trust and functionality in Swedish society are no longer what it once was – and that is definitely not what we should be able to demand together. Sweden no longer works in the way that we can make demands for a well-functioning country to do. Madam President, I would like We need to do something about this in this House. Sweden will once again become one of the countries in the world that works best and that offers its citizens the best chances of life and the best opportunities in the world. To do so, we need to address a wide range of difficult societal problems. It is a question of tackling a crime that destroys our freedom and security. It's about taking hold of an alienation that fattens crime and insecurity all over our country. It is about taking hold of the huge rift that has arisen between the big city and the countryside. Then we, too, who sit in this House, must do our best and devote our strength and ability to solving the problems that Sweden has. Madam President, I would like I don't think I'm the only one with the feeling that politics has got the wrong focus. There has been much about detailed regulations and views on individuals and their way of life, but less and less focus on what is the true core task of the state, namely to create order, trust and trust throughout our country. Politics has been busy coming up with more and longer pointers but less and less engaged in pushing back crime, creating credibility among our authorities and ensuring that Swedes get accurate information – as well as that people can live their lives in freedom and security. In short, politics needs to be turned back into doing its job instead of trying to live people's lives for them, Madam President. A clear example is what we are discussing here today when it comes to keeping order in Sweden, namely that we should have a functioning coordination number system – and order and order in the population register, Madam President. It is a core task for the state to have that kind of control and control, so that we can have order and order in our country. However, politics has drifted away from this and instead devoted itself to other things. It has been issued almost 1 million, or at least 900 000, coordination numbers. It is very unclear whether an individual has more or who actually has which of these numbers. It is estimated that some 200 000 people are registered at the wrong address. In everyday life, many people experience a great deal of discomfort when they suddenly discover that someone else is registered at their address and can do nothing about it. This creates great confusion in society. It creates great insecurity for people and makes it impossible for a wide range of authorities, ranging from police to social services, to do their work effectively in the service of citizens. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have repeatedly suggested that Sweden should tackle these problems and take the initiative. It has been voted down by the majority, time and again. Now we are pleased that at least there is a proposal on the table of Parliament that is taking steps in the right direction, but unfortunately it is more cosmetic than politics. It does not solve the problems that Sweden has; at least it does not fully solve the problems. Our reservations in this report are about making the necessary measures for Sweden to once again become a safe country with free citizens where we can jointly create a better future. Small changes in systems that have stopped working, Madam President, are not enough. We therefore propose such things as biometric data on coordination numbers, so that a person cannot have several numbers and so that authorities know with certainty which person has which number. We have proposed things such as personal cancellation in order to be able to renew their coordination number so that the very large errors we know can be remedied in this. As far as the population register is concerned, we have proposed and set aside funds for a proper census, so that the order can be restored in the registers and so that we know who lives where. Madam President, I would like This and many other proposals have been repeated by the Moderates on Parliament's table, and we are doing it again. There are always people who say that you do not solve the problems by getting the records straight. That is absolutely true, Madam President – you do not. But this is a prerequisite for solving a wide range of other problems. The shortcomings that exist with the coordination number and in the population register lead to Sweden's poor functioning and to less trust and less security. They also lead to a very unpleasant crime; people gain benefits and benefits from welfare systems to which they are not entitled. Perhaps it is not just a question of acquiring things that might actually help those who get them, but also of organised serious crime that drains and drains money from our welfare systems. They take money from those who would need it and enrich their own criminal activities. It's about organized criminals who stay out of the way and hide from the public. It is also about social services, which cannot find parents of children because they are simply not registered where they should be. There are testimony about residential areas where there may be ten times more people living than the population register says, which naturally creates unsustainable problems for these areas and for the public service that should be there. Madam President, I would like This needs Sweden to take hold of, for Sweden will once again be one of the world's best countries to live in. It is not when the state has lost control of its core tasks. By agreeing to our reservations here, Sweden would take a big step towards becoming once again one of the world's best and most well-functioning countries. If our reservations are rejected, there is a great risk that the development we now have will continue.
i-6009480616fce0d8-272	Madam President, I would like The title of the bill is Safer coordination numbers and better conditions for accurate information in the population register. There should be no doubt about the need to improve the conditions for accurate data in the population register. In 2017, the Swedish National Audit Office published an audit report which concluded that one of the problems with the population register is reduced incentives to report correct data to the Swedish Tax Agency, partly due to problems in the housing market. Other reasons for inaccuracies in the population register are movements to and from Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office also noted that there is a lack of knowledge about the extent of the population register errors, despite the Government's request for the Swedish Tax Agency to make an assessment of the quality of the population register. The Swedish National Audit Office concluded that the Swedish Tax Agency's quality work is not carried out effectively. The Swedish Tax Agency has estimated that about 200 000 people are wrongly registered in Sweden, but it is also admitted that the actual number can be much larger than that. No one knows for sure. This is something that I myself have already said in an interpellation debate with the Minister for Finance, but it deserves to be repeated. We have had the coordination number system for more than 20 years, alongside the usual system of personal identity numbers. A huge number of individuals have come to Sweden and been assigned coordination numbers in order for them to function in society. This is another example of mass migration not being easy for the host country. When it turns out that the coordination number system has serious shortcomings and that the system has been misused on a large scale, the matter becomes even more urgent. It is about welfare crime and fraud against Swedish social security systems. There has also been a new kind of crime in which registered addresses are sold illegally for the purpose of committing other crimes. It is therefore clear that a minor adjustment, as proposed by the government, will not be enough to address the problems created by the present and former governments. Madam President, I would like The proposal and the report now being debated are a small step in the right direction, but there would be a need for major and comprehensive reform in this area. We need several things at the same time. We need very limited immigration to Sweden. We would need a net minus for the foreseeable future in order to get the problems that we have seen to grow for many years. We would need a proper census using biometric data to ensure exactly who actually lives here. The coordination number system would have to be scrapped or, at least, massively redeployed – otherwise we will never get to grips with the problems that have been identified with regard to population records and the improper use of our welfare systems. All in all, with these changes, we would be in a slightly better position to solve the problems and improve the conditions for accurate data in population records. Madam President, I would like The government bill has some weaknesses. It has been presented with a rather inadequate impact assessment of its impact; there are various examples of this. Among other things, the Government proposal is expected to add to the workload of courts and other parts of the judiciary. This is, of course, unfortunate in the situation in which we find ourselves, with criminality growing in line with the increasing number of exclusion areas. The proposal adds a new task for several authorities; it concerns the so-called notification obligation. This is expected to contribute to an increased workload for the courts, which in turn will draw resources from the judicial activities. Within the existing financial framework, the authorities are not deemed to be able to deal with the administrative elements of this proposal. In addition, they do not consider that they will be able to handle the manual handling of notifications, which is why an automated procedure requires authorities to develop IT systems that enable digital notifications to the Swedish Tax Agency. However, it seems highly unlikely that the authorities' IT systems are technically constructed in such a way that they can easily be adapted to the new regime before the proposed entry into force without significant costs. In the latest budget bill, the government also chose to ignore, among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency's request for resources to upgrade its IT systems. The concrete proposals that the Swedish Democrats have already put forward in the form of a follow-up motion on this bill mean that personal suspension should be required when granting and renewing the coordination number. We also propose that biometric data be recorded. Of course, we are not alone in these proposals – both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have similar claims, and the report has two common reservations. As far as biometric data are concerned, the majority of committees would like to await the investigation into population records and coordination numbers. The investigation will leave its report on 1 July, and the question of biometric data will hopefully be taken into account. On the other hand, when it comes to personal cancellation, it is supposed that the government will return to the matter. It is certainly a good thing that the majority of the committee both hopes and assumes this, but it would not have harmed by an announcement on these points. Finally, Madam President, I would like to express my support for reservation 1.
i-6009480616fce0d8-289	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating censuses and coordination numbers. Both the censuses and the coordination numbers are very important things, but unfortunately the systems are characterised by many question marks and pure inaccuracies. This is a major problem, as population accounts are the basis for both the determination of taxes and the payment of subsidies and other allowances. The fact that there are errors in the public register can therefore mean both incorrect taxation and incorrect payments of subsidies. The government's own investigations estimate that the value of the incorrect payments amounts to SEK 18 billion each year, and a significant part of this is paid out because of incorrect information in the population register. So this is a very big problem. As far as the coordination numbers are concerned, the Swedish Tax Agency estimates that over 400 000 numbers have been given to persons who have not proven their identity. So there are 400 000 possible errors out of a total of about 870 000 coordination numbers. We do not know how many actual errors there are of the 400 000 numbers, and that too, of course, is a major problem in itself. These problems not only affect society as a whole, but also affect the many individuals who actually need to use coordination numbers. Confidence in the coordination numbers is low among both private and public actors, and this is because the identity checks carried out are of varying quality. This affects not least EU citizens and third-country nationals who can be assigned a coordination number and then feel that it is not working as intended. All of this means that it is absolutely necessary to create order and order in the system. Madam President, I would like The government has now put forward proposals to help overcome these problems. Among other things, the obligation for authorities to report suspected errors in public records to the Swedish Tax Agency is to be extended. This means that coordination numbers can be explained as dormant and that individuals with coordination numbers will be obliged to notify the Swedish Tax Agency of changes to their contact details. Many of the proposals put forward by the government are good in themselves, but they are hardly sufficient. More and stronger measures are needed. We Christian Democrats welcome the extension of the notification obligation between authorities. This will reduce the errors in population records. However, we can already see that this notification obligation needs to be further extended so that more authorities are included. Also rules that violate confidentiality need to include more authorities and government departments to ensure access to relevant information for all authorities that need it. For example, the Swedish Pension Agency estimates that their work would be more effective if they had better access to the Swedish Tax Agency's information. We Christian Democrats also want the extended notification obligation to apply to data on persons with coordination numbers and not just in the population register, which is now being proposed. The proposals put forward by the government therefore mean that we are taking steps in the right direction, but there will unfortunately be a need to come back with more changes. Madam President, I would like In order to overcome the problems of the coordination numbers, two things are basically necessary. On the one hand, the current errors need to be corrected and, on the other hand, the system needs to be fundamentally improved so that these problems cannot arise again. In order to correct the current problems with the coordination numbers, that is to say that there are 400 000 numbers given to people who have not proven their identity, we Christian Democrats are calling for the whole system to be restarted. All coordination numbers therefore need to be suspended as long as the persons behind the numbers cannot come to the Swedish Tax Agency and prove their identity with an ID document. In order to improve the system fundamentally, better identity checks are needed for the allocation of coordination numbers. The Government proposes in the bill that an identity check be carried out when assigning the coordination number. This is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, but this must be an absolute minimum requirement. We believe that personal cancellation should be required from the Swedish Tax Agency or another appropriate authority, and that the Swedish Tax Agency should collect biometric data, such as fingerprints, when renewing or assigning a coordination number. This would be an effective way of counteracting the fact that one and the same person can have several different identities. Together, these measures could lead to the problems being corrected and the coordination numbers could fulfil the important role they are supposed to play, not least for EU citizens staying here. Once we have overcome these problems and have put in place new rules for biometric identification of individuals assigned coordination numbers, there is also the possibility of making changes to the system aimed at simplifying the situation for individuals, such as the individual being able to apply for the coordination number himself. In addition to this, the census that the Christian Democrats and several other parties have demanded needs to be carried out. The Tax Agency has estimated that there are some 200,000 people who are written at wrong addresses, and that is a serious problem. It is necessary to correct the errors in population records in order to counteract a crime that costs the state billions of dollars annually. Madam President, I would like We have a number of reservations about today's dossier. Of course, I support all of them, but I only support reservation 1.
i-6009480616fce0d8-304	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. It should be possible to trust that the information in our registers is up-to-date and accurate. This proposal aims to create better conditions for accurate data in the population register and is part of strengthening the coordination number system. An important piece of the puzzle to stop cheating and fraud with welfare systems is that the census is correct. Enhanced information exchange is a key measure to achieve that objective. This proposal includes a comprehensive extension of the obligation for authorities to notify the Swedish Tax Agency of suspected errors in public records. In practice, this means that almost all authorities will be obliged to notify the Swedish Tax Agency if they suspect errors in public records. It is a major and important change. The notification obligation will apply to more data than today. Since the data in the population register are used in large parts of the sphere of government and, moreover, are assumed to be correct, errors in these data have significant spill-over effects. This applies not least in relation to the compensation schemes based on residence. In the case of coordination numbers, it shall be possible to declare a stay after five years after the number has been assigned. The coordination number was introduced on 1 January 2000 and is distributed today on behalf of an authority to persons who are not required to register and are here for less than a year. If the population register is later, the coordination number is linked to the social security number in the population register database. At the turn of the year, approximately 76,000 of all coordination numbers are estimated to be over five years old and will remain with this proposal unless an authority or the individual has submitted an application for renewal of the number. An individual who is to renew his coordination number will again have to comply with the requirements to be assigned a coordination number. This means, among other things, that the person must report to the Tax Agency and prove his or her identity. The Swedish Tax Agency will also be able to explain a coordination number if there are other reasons for this, for example that the Swedish Tax Agency has gained knowledge that the number has been assigned on incorrect grounds. This proposal also provides for the possibility for individuals to apply for coordination numbers under certain conditions. The European Commission has for a long time received complaints from, among others, citizens of the Union who, when using freedom of movement, experience problems in Swedish society because they do not have Swedish social security numbers. This is also a priority border barrier in the Council of Europe's Border Barriers Council. An inquiry into payments from welfare systems has also investigated payments to people with coordination numbers, and that is not where the major fraud against welfare systems in Sweden takes place, but on completely different ways. According to the same study, the incorrect payments to persons with coordination numbers are estimated to amount to approximately 10 million or within a range of SEK 4 – 19 million. Most of the grants we have in Sweden are based on residence and require that you have a registered address and therefore also a social security number. Madam President, I would like The government has taken a number of measures to improve population records. Among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency has been given the opportunity to make visits to check the residence, and it has also carried out a reintroduction of civil record crimes. The Government has also introduced a non-disclosure clause between the Population Accounts and the Tax Unit within the Swedish Tax Agency and has commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency, in cooperation with a number of voluntary municipalities, to set up pilot projects to investigate the extent of the problem of incorrect censuses. The project will also develop methods and working methods to correct errors. The government has also contributed and continues to provide budgetary resources to strengthen population accounts. Many measures are taken at a rapid pace, but more needs to be done. The government has also set up a population register inquiry which is completed in July this year. It shall, inter alia, propose measures to ensure that the population records contain, as far as possible, accurate information and prevent a person from being registered in a non-resident country. The investigation shall also propose measures concerning coordination numbers. In the case of proposals raised by the motionaries from other parties, the Population Accounts Report is very likely to address some of the issues. However, the IRS itself has not proposed a traditional national census. Rather, they say that such a census would not contribute to the accuracy of more information in the population register. As I mentioned, there is already a project in progress with several municipalities to develop more targeted methods of control and measures for the recording of population. Withdrawing all the coordination numbers proposed would probably create a great deal of disorder. Authorities would probably have to start with their own numbering series for the individuals they need to keep track of. As has been said in previous debates, not all individuals with coordination numbers want it themselves, for example when the police consider it necessary. Explaining all these coordination numbers rests with risks. Finally, it is important that cross-system data in population records are accurate, and the proposals in this proposal are important steps along the way.
i-6009480616fce0d8-322	Madam President, I would like Fake news is a major problem in our society, and I wonder what honourable Member Anna Vikström bases her statement in the speaker's chair that authorities in need of coordination numbers should not be able to keep these?
i-6009480616fce0d8-323	Madam President, I would like No, there must be some misunderstanding. I was talking about the authorities who don't want the coordination numbers to be dormant can ask them not to be dormant. They thus have an opportunity to request that they remain. I cannot imagine that I have said what the honourable Member said.
i-6009480616fce0d8-325	Madam President, I would like In such cases, I wonder why Anna Vikström is against our proposal. If Anna Vikström understands that an authority that believes that a coordination number should remain should of course be able to keep this coordination number, what is it then Anna Vikström means creates great disorder with our proposal? So our proposal is that an individual who has a coordination number and wants to keep this coordination number should appear on the authority, or otherwise verify himself, and say: here I am. This is my number. The individual also needs to leave some kind of biometric data, such as when you have a passport. This means Anna Vikström, with a very strange political rhetoric, would create disorder. Can Anna Vikström explain to the Swedish people what is the disorder that an individual who wants a coordination number needs to show up, verify their identity and give up some form of verifiable biometric data? Anna Vikström is standing in the speaker's chair accusing the opposition of wanting to create disorder. But it's just the opposite. It is the system Anna Vikström and the government that creates disorder, with 900 000 issued coordination numbers that you do not know who is behind. It's disorder. Anna Vikström gets a chance to find out what is going to be the disorder of the person who wants a number having to verify their identity and give up biometric data so that one can ensure that a person has a number. Furthermore, there is no proposal to say what Anna Vikström said, that the numbers that the authorities need should be celled. It's a pure invention.
i-6009480616fce0d8-331	Madam President, I would like Individuals wishing to renew their coordination numbers shall, of course, have them renewed if they can prove their identity and if the conditions for the allocation of the coordination numbers are met. This is part of the proposal, which I mentioned, and that is quite right. As far as biometric data is concerned, I refer to the Population Accounts Investigation. It is a major change to introduce biometric data, and just as the Moderates have proposed, a proper investigation is required. If this investigation is proposed by the Public Accounts Investigation or otherwise, I cannot answer. This is the way to address the issue of biometric data. There are high demands on security, and it is about completely new processes in the management of all identities in Sweden. It's really important. That is why we are not granting this right now, but it should come from the Public Accounts Committee. When I talk about disorder, it is perhaps not the Moderates' proposal I am referring to, but the Christian Democrats, which involves the withdrawal of all the coordination numbers. I argued against their proposal to withdraw without the possibility for the authorities to request that they should not be withdrawn. This is what I've read myself to. But it may be a misunderstanding, and in that case it is quite similar to the proposal that already exists. However, I believe that what has been said many times about recalling and deactivating all the coordination numbers, including those requested by the police, would create disorder, because they are needed and exist for a reason.
i-6009480616fce0d8-336	Madam President, I would like The Swedish census has been discussed, supported and wet for decades. After all, however, we can say that Sweden has a fairly high standard of population records in an international perspective. We can also see that there are shortcomings, which have also been discussed for decades. Changes in rules regarding, among other things, data obligations have been made on a number of occasions. Like the reserveers in the report, the Center Party sees obvious shortcomings in the coordination and registration systems. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, essential to have a functioning population register. And we have great expectation of the special investigator who will be submitting his report as early as 1 July 2021. There, proposals for measures to secure the right housing address and that the right persons are registered at the address. The investigator shall also propose measures to correct errors in the use of the coordination number. As early as 2017, the report on welfare offences identified a number of risk factors linked to the fact that data recorded in the population register database do not reflect real conditions. One might wonder why these proposals for changes from the government only come now, when the government's own authority the Tax Agency has also made a request for changes. That it is landing at Parliament's table right now, two months before the next report of the inquiry arrives, we can certainly attribute pressure and pressure from the opposition in various ways, through committee initiatives and discussions. As data in the population accounts are expected to be accurate and are used as a basis, among other things, for the various payments of compensation by public authorities, errors in public records lead to large spill-over effects and costly mispayments. Madam President, I would like It is therefore beyond doubt that there is and has long been fraud in the benefit systems in Sweden. Some of this can be traced to cheating with censuses. Similarly, there is cheating with the coordination numbers given to individuals who are not registered in Sweden. As far as coordination numbers are concerned, I do not think that the common people have much idea of how these are actually used. Many people probably think that it is only a new arrival who gets this instead of a social security number, but that is not the case. Let me take some examples of perspectives that we miss if we do not look at the whole picture. For EU and EEA citizens, it is not necessary to have obtained a residence permit before starting your own business. However, either a social security number or a coordination number are required. I would like as many EU citizens as possible to choose to start a business in Sweden. For obvious reasons, all foreign Swedes with coordination numbers would find it difficult to appear physically in a tax office for identification, if necessary. Border commuters who pay income tax in Sweden have coordination numbers, as well as the sailors who work on Swedish ships. The tens of thousands of foreign cottage owners in Sweden have a coordination number. Measures for a single group may be justifiable, but if we look at the whole picture, the measure would be to come to a tax office for identification for all those who today have a coordination number might be both too much and not very accurate. Madam President, I would like For me and the Center Party, it is important that we can gradually implement measures that have an impact while also taking into account how coordination numbers are actually used. This is such an important issue from many perspectives that I think it needs a proper analysis. We all want to address the problems of coordination numbers. The debate is not about the objectives but about the means. As far as the funds are concerned, the issue of a new census is quite often raised in the debate. That is, of course, good, but we see some problems with the way in which the census of ancient times took place, by physically checking who lives at an address. A person who is wrongly registered may not even open the door. Walking around and knocking on doors is a highly dubious measure that would probably cost huge sums without an acceptable result. Other ways of carrying out checks also have their own problems. Would people who lure in sickness benefit happily state honest answers to a survey? We do not see this as very likely. However, it is of the utmost importance that we find ways to overcome the problems of welfare fraud and misreporting. It is therefore positive that the budget for 2021, negotiated by the Centre Party together with the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, provides funds for a pilot project in certain vulnerable areas, where the Swedish Tax Agency will implement measures to improve population records. We agree with the views expressed in the special opinion of the Liberals. Madam President, I would like Today it is also not illegal to be homeless in Sweden. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that approximately 33 000 individuals are homeless. And the Swedish Tax Agency has previously done surveys that show that up to 90 000 students are wrongly registered. Under current legislation, it is not possible to require access to the dwelling and to see who is in it in order to carry out a census. A great deal could perhaps be done with new legislation, if one is prepared to lower the privacy requirements for the individual citizen. But we're not quite there yet. Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that we are now taking steps for more correctness when it comes to coordination numbers. We must, of course, come back with more proposals to deal with the 18 billion dollars lost in cheating. In all probability, we need to do so already in the autumn.
i-6009480616fce0d8-355	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Helena Vilhelmsson for the recognition that the bill would not have been on Parliament's table if it had not been for the Moderates with the frenetic work of several parties to try to recreate some sort of order in the systems. There I think Helena Vilhelmsson is absolutely right. The resistance of the Social Democrats in particular has been compact on these issues. There is much speculation as to why. Many people make the assessment that it is because they have very big problems in their social democratic shop window municipalities, such as Borlänge and Malmö, where there has been a huge laxity with support and so on. They do not want this to come to the surface and be visible. Unfortunately, Helena Vilhelmsson and the Center Party have also opposed that different types of measures should come into place. As in my previous question, one must start to object to the various statements or myths that are being spread because one does not want to tackle the problem. First of all, when it comes to foreign summer cottage owners need to verify their identity, I think it is probably worth it to get to grips with the big problems that Sweden has. I am not suffering significantly with the German families who need to appear at an authority and verify who they are so that we can stop the very serious criminality that we have. Helena Vilhelmsson talks about survey responses, knocking on doors and such things, which is why she now believes that exactly those methods would be used. Why would you settle for that? Does Helena Vilhelmsson have an idea that this is how the Swedish Tax Agency works when they supervise companies, for example – that they knock on the door and ask hello, have you cheated with the tax? And then leave if they get a no? Why does Helena Vilhelmsson spread such a picture? That is not how we work to deal with problems.
i-P211Qk1NZQvYMpMcEHucFf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wykman, for the question or the request for clarification. As far as the debate on welfare crimes and civil records is concerned, it has been a hot issue, and there have been debate articles and discussions. The Moderates with several parties claim, sometimes with emphasis, that a new census is what we need. Yes, the Center Party agrees, but the question is how to do it. What I meant in my speech was that the way it was done in the past, a long time ago, might not work today. In recent times, as far as I understand, people have worked in the way that they make impact on registers, merge them, check whether it is true and so on. That is also why I am guessing that over the years we have given the Tax Authority a better mandate to actually check what is being found and to make home visits, because where there are shortcomings, measures should be able to be implemented. As it sometimes appears in the debate, that you should make a census and knock on all the doors, we do not believe in. I refer once again to the pilot project I mentioned. There I think you can make a mix of this: make records and knock on the door, by talking about coming. I heard the honourable Member say that I think that is how it will happen. Again: Those who do not have pure flour in the bag can make sure to be gone that day. But let's do the test in a geographically defined location and draw experiences and then scale it up. I expect this to result from the pilot project.
i-6009480616fce0d8-363	Madam President, I would like The Moderates' proposal is clear when it comes to the Swedish Tax Agency together with the Finnish Immigration Service, the police and other relevant authorities being able to work efficiently, synchronised, scientifically and so on. I do not think it is a good attitude that Helena Vilhelmsson has when she stands and describes it as that you would knock on or send out a survey and if people then are not home or just do not answer would the authorities do no more. But it may say something about Helena Vilhelmsson's expectations of the social democratic authorities that we have now received in the country. That's not how it works at all. People are also horribly tired of political rhetoric of the kind that sounds like the Moderates' proposal would be based on us sending out a survey, and if people reply wrong to it, you do nothing, and if people are not home when you knock on it, it ends there. That's not how we work. The whole political conversation becomes so infantile when one ascribes to one's political opponents that kind of perception. It is clear in our proposals that we call on authorities to work on the basis of a risk assessment in this, for example, as in other tax supervision. Of course, this is what our authorities know. The Swedish Tax Agency itself has written a long proposal on Dagens Nyheter's debate page on how to do that kind of work. This is about proposing that such work be done. Helena Vilhelmsson has been against it. We have set aside half a billion in the budget for the agency to have money to do so. Helena Vilhelmsson has not wanted to vote in favour of a budget that gives the authorities that money. This is going to boil down to real things. We have serious problems in Sweden. Let us not make the discussion too stupid.
i-6009480616fce0d8-368	Madam President, I would like I have to correct Mr Wykman's statement that we have been against this work. That's not true. I said in my speech that it is not the objectives but the means on which we disagree. If this is the way the honourable Member perceives it as an infantile attitude – I do not know how the honourable Member put it – I apologise for that. But it is also about how, among other things, the Moderates have conducted the debate before. It is about why it is important to and in what way to make a census. I repeat, we have landed in a good way. It is not that we have been against the proposals per se. We've been working in a different way in the budget. Once again, we have ensured that a pilot project will be carried out. What's going to be good in that, we're going to scale up. I hope we can do this in the best possible way, along with the Moderates among others.
i-6009480616fce0d8-371	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Sku11 report on safer coordination numbers and better conditions for accurate data in public records. I would like to start by saying that we support the committee's proposals. I just want to clarify what the coordination number is. It is an identifier for people who are not or have been registered in Sweden. The aim is for authorities and other social functions to be able to identify people even if they are not registered in Sweden. The coordination number is assigned today when an authority requests it from the Swedish Tax Agency. It is requested when the authority needs a number in order to avoid confusion or to exchange information about the person with other authorities and organisations. The report proposes a series of changes to ensure that the population accounts contain accurate data. For example, an obligation is introduced for all authorities to notify the Swedish Tax Agency if it can be assumed that an information in the population register if a person who is or has been registered in the register is incorrect or incomplete. It is about reducing the risk of cheating and crime. In the case of coordination numbers, it is proposed, among other things, to confirm that the coordination number is an identifier, in order to increase the status of the coordination number so that people who need it do not encounter unnecessary obstacles in contact with, for example, healthcare. One problem that we from the Left Party have highlighted by proposing a committee initiative is the change that was introduced when the Population Accounts Act was rewritten in 2018. The government then felt that the change would lead to tackling organised crime, the trade in black contracts and people cheating on subsidies. It would be by criminalising those who have registered themselves at the wrong address. It is a crime that can lead to up to two years in prison. But the law has proved ineffective. It does not affect organised crime or the subsidy fraudsters, and it has no effect on black contracts. The group that is affected, on the other hand, are the homeless, already vulnerable people. They have now been made criminals and risk having their lives destroyed as a result. Of the so far 127 prosecutions brought since the amendment came into force, 50 are against the homeless. Only 11 are against subsidy fraudsters. For the rest, there was a connection to either a threat to the person in question, a separation or a divorce. In some cases it was linked to other types of crime. Instead of making it easier for people who need support to get back on their feet, this leads to their being punished. In addition, an extremely unequal legal system awaits. I don't know if you've had the opportunity to read Hem & Hyra's review of the civil record crimes. That is absurd. One of the articles follows two legal cases. One applies to the real estate billionaire from Balder and the Vice President of the real estate group, who wrote their children and themselves at Balder's head office, although they were never supposed to live there. The second case concerns the industrial worker Emelie and her ex, Erik. Emelie was going to study abroad, and in order for the ex to receive the maintenance allowance in the meantime, the children had to be written with him. But in these times, when people lack accommodation and have to rent rooms, subletting and so on, it happens quite often that you can't write at the address where you live. So the children had to be written on fake addresses. Perhaps you can guess in which case you had access to lawyers and in which you did not have the right to a public defender. I'm sure you can also guess who went free and who was convicted. Yes, it was the industrial worker and her ex. Together they had to pay a fine of SEK 24 500. To make sense of this, the Left Party called on the government to come up with a solution so that homeless people and people who have not engaged in welfare crimes will not be prosecuted. Only the Christian Democrats supported it. Madam President, I would like I am actually sitting on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and I am today jumping into the debate of the Committee on Taxation. Yesterday, together with all the other parties, we supported a committee initiative on state aid to businesses. Part of the proposal is about proportionality, that is to say that companies that have perhaps submitted a minor, incorrect information or have perhaps submitted information one day too late should not be penalised by withdrawing the entire state aid, even when part of it has already been paid out. It is believed that such a regime is more far-reaching than is needed and is not proportionate to the intended outcome and the inconveniences that can be assumed to arise for companies that are already in an economically vulnerable situation in the pandemic. Why am I bringing this up, Madam President? Because I wish that reasonableness also existed with regard to already vulnerable groups such as the homeless.
i-6009480616fce0d8-383	Madam President, I would like I would like to start at a different end in this debate. It is because I am basically a bank official but I am currently on leave of absence from my job at the bank in order to carry out my parliamentary mission. I have quite a lot of experience in handling coordination numbers and not least LMA cards from the various banking related matters I have had to deal with over the years. The problems with the coordination numbers existed long before the large refugee wave to Sweden in 2015. It is very important to emphasise this. The system has had a lot of downsides for a lot of years. This, of course, has contributed to bureaucratic complexity for companies, authorities and so on, but also to considerable legal uncertainty for the individual. This has contributed to, for example, the difficulties of returning foreign Swedes in carrying out various cases. When the system has not been in control, it has of course also been able to pave the way for different kinds of welfare crimes. It goes without saying that this is an unsustainable situation that needs to be addressed. Madam President, I would like I believe that we must nevertheless manage to have two thoughts in our minds at the same time when we are debating this report, because there are a number of different perspectives to be drawn from. One is about what I have just mentioned: the bureaucratic problems and obstacles inherent in the system. The second is, of course, about the foreign Swedes who face problems, but also about guest workers who come to Sweden. They can't open bank accounts all the time. This means that they do not get their wages paid and that employers are withholding wages. This creates enormous suffering for the workers who come to Sweden, and I think that this perspective must be in our minds when we discuss this matter. The systems with personal identity numbers and coordination numbers have a very strong foundation in Swedish society. They are directly linked to our raison d'être as individuals and are a prerequisite for us to be able to use many of the services available but also to have access to the entire welfare system. Of course, it is a strength of modern society that we have been able to take the lead in technological development and that we have legally secure systems. But there are, of course, drawbacks. It creates vulnerability and opens up for welfare crimes and identity creations. For this reason, it is important that we strengthen the legal certainty surrounding the system of identity documents. A little depending on the point of entry into the debate, this report will, of course, open up to different points of entry. For us Liberals, it is again about the fight against exclusion and the fight against the parallel societies that have been created in socially vulnerable areas. For this reason, we have pushed through a number of proposals to improve integration. It is about language tests and community tests for citizenship and compulsory language preschool. It's about strengthening the school with important resources. It is about the fight against honour-related violence and repression. It is about supporting organisations that work for better integration and not least the organisations that work for women's rights in our vulnerable areas. We know that gender equality today does not fully reach many of the areas where women fall behind the umbrella of the majority society and are forced to live with freedom because we have not been able to fully ensure that the rule of law exists in these areas too. Some measures are proposed in the bill to improve the conditions for the correct information to be recorded in the population register and to remedy shortcomings in the coordination number system. It is a necessary step to correct the shortcomings that exist in the authorities' control of who is allowed to reside in Sweden, who have the legal right to live here and where people actually live. This problem is perhaps illustrated most clearly by the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency today estimates that 200 000 people are enrolled in incorrect addresses, as other speakers before me have pointed out, and that some 400 000 of the more than 870 000 coordination numbers distributed have been given to people who have not been able to prove their identity. The government's own estimates have found that approximately 18 billion are paid out annually on the basis of incorrect data in the population accounts. This creates problems for society in several ways and is used to everything from incorrect welfare payments to illicit trading in rental contracts and trading in address details. This is serious crime that we have to deal with. It's a responsibility that all of us parties in this house have to deal with. None of what is now happening in social development will reduce the exclusion that currently exists throughout the country in socially vulnerable areas. It is against this background that the Liberals in the budget bill for 2021 have ensured that there are conditions for improved population records in vulnerable areas. We want this to lay the foundations for a census in vulnerable areas, and we welcome the fact that more parties have joined this. We also see in the long term the need for us to have a national census, because it was last done 30 years ago. But our proposals are an important step in the right direction. Now we want to wait – I think it is important to emphasise that – the investigation that is currently reviewing the entire coordination number system and is due to make its proposals on 1 July. We should wait for that inquiry, because there are likely to be a number of more proposals that might not least be moving in the direction of the opposition. The adoption of this bill today does not mean that all problems will be solved. But it is an important step in the right direction. I also think it is important to wait and look at the pilot project that the Swedish Tax Agency is now running with regard to population records. We all have every reason to come back to how we can further strengthen the coordination number system to ensure both legal certainty and coordination numbers do not fall into the wrong hands. We in the Liberals have given a special opinion. I am pleased that the Centre Party also thinks that this opinion is a good one. These are important steps. We support this from the Liberals, but more needs to be done. We'll get back to you. I support the proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-397	Madam President, I would like Proper population registration is of paramount importance, as is the system of personal identity numbers and coordination numbers. Most people may not think about these issues on a daily basis, but the fact that this works is very important in everyday life. Identifying yourself is a prerequisite for coping with many simple everyday tasks. For Swedish citizens, the personal identity number is something that is evident from identity documents such as passport and driving licence. Coordination numbers are available for people who are not registered in Sweden. It may be a citizen of the Union or a person from a third country. It may, for example, be people who have summer homes in Sweden. They then need coordination numbers if they are in Sweden with a certain regularity or for some longer period. However, there needs to be security and control over the system. The changes proposed in the bill today give us better control. Among other things, all authorities are obliged to report errors to the Swedish Tax Agency. Numbers older than five years old become dormant unless the individual or an authority applies for an extension. It will also be possible to apply for a coordination number for the individual. You also have to prove your identity with the Tax Agency in order to get a coordination number. Madam President, I would like In parallel with what we decide today, an investigation is being carried out. It has been sitting for a while and will soon be ready to make proposals to improve the system further. It is likely that, in future, the House will have to take a position on further changes. This will be a fresh start for the system. Overall, this will make the coordination number system more useful and safer. It just gets better. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-402	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Slopad report on the reduction of energy tax on fuels in certain sectors. In other words, energy taxes are to be levied at 100% of the general level of fuels consumed for purposes other than the operation of motor vehicles in the manufacturing process in industrial activities as well as in professional agricultural, forestry or aquaculture activities. In conclusion: Swedish companies must pay more in energy tax. The Moderates believe that the government's proposal is bad and should be rejected. There are several reasons. First of all, it is directly irresponsible to reduce the conditions for Swedish companies in the midst of a pandemic. Our companies operate in a global context. Increased costs cause them to lose competitiveness and, at worst, to be eliminated. Their place is then occupied by other companies whose production is rarely as environmentally friendly. It is an attractive investment climate and strong competitiveness that leads to both efficiency improvements and the use of more environmentally friendly technologies, not tax increases. It is surprising that the government chose to present the proposal, and it is regrettable that so many parties are in favour of the proposal, not least given that most of the referral bodies are very critical. Most of the consultation bodies, including the State Agency for Growth, have pointed out the lack of impact assessment. A legitimate question is which factual evidence gives the Government the authority to conclude that the companies are concerned only to a limited extent. Who is the most appropriate to assess what is limited in scope? I am convinced that it is the companies themselves. One example: According to Svemin, the trade association for mines, mineral and metal producers in Sweden, a large part of the mines and companies are affected by the proposal. For some companies in the industry, the government's proposal means increased costs of millions of dollars as early as next year. Another example is the forest industry, where export volumes decrease rapidly as prices increase, which undoubtedly leads to increased taxes. Madam President, I would like Another objection is that the proposal is not cost-effective. An estimated emission reduction of 33 000 tonnes at a cost to companies of SEK 570 million is not in the least effective. Allowances for 33 000 tonnes at a price of approximately 25 – 30 euros per tonne cost less than 10 million SEK. It is only to be regretted that a majority in the committee has chosen to support the proposal. Apart from the fact that it is detrimental to the competitiveness of Swedish companies, the time frame for implementation is too tight. No account has been taken of competitive sectors with large investments and long investment cycles. It is not the case that companies have the opportunity to replace expensive machines in half a year. With the government's proposal, there is a risk that there will be exclusion instead of conversion. Madam President, I would like The energy tax has historically been fiscal but gradually gained an increasingly resource-governing character, according to the government. I think that the energy tax is still highly fiscal. Already today, companies are working hard to reduce their energy consumption and costs. There is therefore no need for an additional tax levy that controls resources. Companies want to reduce their use of fossil fuels and become fossil-free. Many projects are under way on the replacement of fossil fuels with electrification. It is worth pointing out that electrification requires access to electricity, and the government is doing everything in its power to ensure that Sweden suffers from a shortage of electricity. One example is the shutdown of well-functioning nuclear reactors. The development of new technologies also requires resources. When the government collects more taxes, the resources for research and development become less. Tax burdens are hardly a good way to stimulate investment in new technologies, as this reduces investment space. A well-functioning market economy, with as little state interference as possible, has proved completely unbeatable as a system for protecting the environment, including by stimulating the development of and investment in environmentally friendly technologies. The aim of the proposal is good, to increase the incentive for more efficient energy use, but the way the government has chosen is wrong. It is said that the road to hell – excuse me, Madam President – is covered with good intentions. Good intentions in the name of the environment, which have ended in deterioration for companies, jobs and the environment, have become something of the government's hallmark. It is because reality always trumps symbolism policy. The plastic bag tax and the waste incineration tax are two very telling examples. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-6009480616fce0d8-415	Madam President, I would like In a similar way as when a group of passengers on a platform witness the rush of a high-speed train, we have seen how the government's environmental policy is thundering. I think a lot of people feel that train doesn't want, can or should I get on. The government is moving forward in various areas with proposed tax increases on things that are judged to be negative for the environment – this despite a largely non-environmental benefit in many cases. This time the fuel used in the manufacturing process in industrial activities, excluding vehicles, as well as in professional agricultural, forestry or aquaculture activities. Fuels used for the production of heat or cooling for these activities are also affected by these tax increases. These are additional areas that have now been put in the shot for the Swedish government. Madam President, I would like But even though the government is systematically firing environmental rockets at all possible targets, this time too, a logical and consistent procedure is reflected in its absence. For some reason, the bill has chosen not to include fuels for ships or boats – why is unclear. Since most companies affected by this tax increase are active in agriculture and forestry, one might wonder whether the government has focused on reducing Swedish agriculture. Madam President, I would like In these pandemic times, we have become painfully aware of our vulnerability and what the consequence can be when you constantly rely on borders to be open and commodity flows to work. In the current crisis, goods can still flow relatively freely across national borders. Thankfully, we have always had food on the tables and in the shops, although it trembled a little at first when you started hoarding toilet paper, antipyretic medicines, canned foods and dry food for fear of it ending. When it came to protective and medical equipment, it was worse. We had dismantled our emergency stocks, and it was first far into the pandemic there was enough protective equipment to meet the needs. How are we going to prepare for the next time of crisis? Who knows what's next? Perhaps the flows of goods will not work at all? How do we feed on the tables when the shops' shelves are gaping empty and there are no new goods to refill? Madam President, I would like On MSB's own website crisisinformation.se, it is written that crisis preparedness is just about preparing for the unexpected. Sweden's self-sufficiency in food has now fallen to less than 50%. I think we all in here really want to increase it, but that is not actually done by pulling away the conditions for Swedish agriculture to grow food in our cold part of the world. Already here we must be allowed to doubt what confidence we can be expected to have in the government's tax policy. We have seen it several times before: a whimsical approach that breaks logical principles. High nominal taxes with reductions for competitive industry have been a working principle, which the government increasingly tends to leave. Now we have an agricultural sector that is already in a strain and that has made its calculations to get the business going. And suddenly the government pulls the carpet away. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has also led us to a situation where many companies are in danger of going bankrupt and unemployment is running out. It is difficult to understand that the government will then come forward with an environmental policy that further imposes penalties on fundamental parts of the economy, so that economic recovery risks being slower than necessary. In addition, the proposed tax increase risks reducing Swedish production and shifting production abroad, leading to an increased need for imports of goods with many times less environmental and climate performance as well as more transport. We Swedish democrats believe that Sweden should instead actually increase the production of Swedish and environmentally friendly products. The environmental aspect should therefore not be a pretext for further weakening Sweden, but vice versa. Madam President, I would like It is clear, however, that this is not really about an environmentally friendly policy, since the energy tax is mainly fiscal and not environmental. The point of this measure therefore seems rather unclear. Activities that cause the largest emissions will still be excluded, or they are already part of the EU ETS. The major Swedish companies affected are therefore likely to sell or move their allowances to other countries, and therefore European or global emissions are not significantly affected by the proposal. On the other hand, most companies that will be affected by these increased taxes are small businesses in the agricultural and forestry sectors, which often have to produce heat for their plants in order to grow crops. It cannot be unfamiliar to the government that we live in a northern country that is much colder than the countries of Central and Central Europe and where crops grow much slower than they do there. Again, the Government proposes tax increases that mainly hit small businesses and rural and sparsely populated businesses. This is exactly what seems to be a common theme in the government's tax policy at times. Madam President, I would like At the same time, we know that Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions are very low in an international comparison, both per capita and for the country as a whole. In 2019 Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions were 1.3 per mil of the world's total carbon dioxide emissions, and in per capita emissions, Sweden is in place four from the bottom of the OECD countries. It is therefore about the same position as in the case of unemployment in the EU, but in a positive sense. And note that we have our low emissions, not thanks to the current government, but perhaps despite this, because our electricity production is mainly from carbon-free hydro and nuclear power today. Madam President, I would like The government estimates that the proposal we are debating today will reduce Sweden's CO2 emissions by 33 000 tonnes. That is about 1 per mil of the amount we are going to reduce emissions by between 2005 and 2030. It may not be a negligible amount of carbon dioxide, but given the modest environmental benefit, the government leaves the timing of the proposal and its rapid introduction far too short a time for the affected companies to change. This will cause more damage to the business community than would have been necessary. For this reason, we believe that the bill should be rejected in its entirety. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-6009480616fce0d8-436	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has previously adopted the goal that Sweden should have 50 per cent more efficient energy use in 2030 compared to 2005. There aren't many years left now. To achieve this goal, a shift in energy use is necessary. In order to increase incentives to accelerate the transition, the Government proposes to phase out the existing reduction in energy tax on fuel consumed for heating or operation of stationary engines in certain sectors. The measure is also expected to help reduce the use of fossil fuels, bringing us closer to climate targets. In concrete terms, the proposal requires full energy tax to be levied on the general level of fuels consumed for purposes other than the operation of motor vehicles in the manufacturing process in industrial activities and in professional agricultural, forestry or aquaculture activities. Nor shall there be a refund of energy tax on fuels consumed for the production of heat or cooling delivered for the said purposes. The proposal does not concern the operation of motor vehicles in the relevant activities or fuel consumption in ships and boats. Tax-free fuel consumption in the steel and mining industries or in the production of energy products is also not affected by the proposal. The changes will be implemented in two steps, with a reduction in the tax reduction from 70 per cent to 35 per cent on 1 July 2021 and a complete abolition of the tax reduction on 1 January 2022 – this to create predictability and allow time for adaptation. Madam President, I would like The proposal is not news that came today. Already in the budget proposal for 2021, the change was announced by the Government. What is interesting, however, in today's debate are the reservations that have already been raised here in the speaker's chair before me. Both the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are calling for rejection of the proposal. I would like to draw everyone's attention to a pattern that is very clear to those who follow the tax debates in Parliament: it is the rule rather than the exception that these two parties are calling for rejection when it comes to proposals aimed at achieving the environmental and climate objectives. This makes me think about what the real attitude of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats is towards Sweden's climate goals. Above all, it concerns the Swedish Democrats, who oppose any political proposal for climate and the environment and who, at the same time, never have their own proposals for solutions. They are opposed to proposals which are in fact quite well-established in order to achieve the objectives of energy transition and climate change, objectives which are probably not sufficient but which are certainly necessary – because we would indeed need to have bolder proposals. Instead of joining the fight to save our planet, however, they systematically oppose the proposals put forward. In their motions, they refer, among other things, to the fact that we should not implement this proposal with regard to the covid-19 pandemic. Who knows what crisis is coming next time? Mr Westroth is asking in this Chamber today. Yes, scientists know, and they warn us of a climate crisis. Children who strike know, and they urge us politicians to act. Yet SD doesn't want to jump on the train to the future. What they do not want to realise is that by not speeding up the transition, we would risk throwing the world into a major climate crisis. For while the covid-19 pandemic has led several leaders in the world to advocate the expansion of welfare, the raising of certain taxes and the reduction of climate emissions, some Swedish conservative parties advocate the opposite. It makes me wonder why they want to rob us of faith in the future. Madam President, I would like In so doing, I call on the committee to approve the proposal and reject the motions.
i-6009480616fce0d8-446	Madam President, I would like These are harsh words that Sultan Kayhan is addressing the Moderates because the Moderates care about companies and how companies will develop, be able to function and make the investments that are crucial to the environment. A company has a limited amount of funds, so the question is: Should you use these funds to develop new and more environmentally friendly technologies, or should you pay symbolic taxes? Because that's exactly what this treasure is. The government itself says in its proposal that it is concerned with 33 000 tonnes of emissions. These emissions, which, according to the Government's proposal, will cost 570 million, cost less than 10 million through the purchase of emission allowances. It's not effective, and that's what the Moderates are turning against. Measures taken shall be effective. In view of this, I wonder whether Sultan Kayhan can answer the question as to why crude pine oil is treated as fossil fuels in the proposal.
i-6009480616fce0d8-449	Madam President, I would like The answer to this question, as the report also states, is that, with a view to taxing oil in the same way as other taxable fuels, the government proposes that the levels of taxation for crude pine oil should also be adjusted in accordance with the proposal. So it is in order to have uniformity. That is also really the purpose of a lot of other things when it comes to tax policy: if there is no justification for having exceptions, you should generally not have it. When it comes to the environment, you might think that there should be a reason that makes you need to do different. Then I also have a question back to Boriana Åberg. I noticed that Ulf Kristersson in the presentation of the Moderate Spring Budget did not say a single word about the climate. I find that interesting. I would like to know more about why the Moderate Presidents did not mention the climate and what attitude the Moderates really have towards the climate and climate goals, given that you are also systematically voting against every proposal that we put forward in order to be able to change and increase incentives for energy transition.
i-6009480616fce0d8-451	Madam President, I would like Balancing crude oil with fossil fuels runs counter to energy and climate policy objectives and enhances the phasing-out of remaining fossil fuels. The proposal completely departs from the principle that fossil fuels should not be taxed, and Sultan Kayhan stands here defending it. It makes no sense to me. We must do everything we can to phase out remaining fossil fuels. As far as the Moderates' climate policy is concerned, we are committed to proper action. We are focusing on measures that have an effect, not on symbolic policies such as the plastic bag tax. It has indeed become the worst example of the lack of well-thought-out policies. It is a policy that leads to job losses and to companies that are forced to move abroad. The same will happen with this proposal, which, without having any real environmental benefit, only makes it difficult for companies and jobs. In terms of energy policy, the Moderates want to invest in nuclear energy, a clean type of energy that provides access to electricity throughout the year, around the clock, throughout the country. It is one of the most important climate and environmental measures that we can introduce.
i-6009480616fce0d8-455	Madam President, I would like What I am defending is the climate and climate goals, that we, as politicians, should take responsibility for achieving the climate goals and not throwing the world into a climate crisis. I think that in that case we really agree with each other that we should fight for fossil freedom. We Social Democrats also want Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Having said that, I don't think I got an answer to my question why Ulf Kristersson didn't even mention the climate at the press conference for the Moderate Spring Budget. I find it remarkable that the Moderates in the 2021 budget are making substantial and substantial cuts to climate and environmental efforts. I also find it remarkable that the only solution that the Moderates have is to invest in nuclear energy. Nuclear power can have advantages and disadvantages, but we know that nuclear energy is becoming more expensive and expensive compared to other, sustainable alternatives. There are some remarks that I am making here today and that I am taking with me to future debates.
i-6009480616fce0d8-458	Madam President, I would like After all, the Government's proposal impairs the competitiveness of Swedish companies, which risks leading to the relocation of companies' activities abroad. What the government has forgotten is that some industrial processing plants have an extremely complex and high-tech structure, which makes switching to electricity or renewable fuels in practice difficult and costly. The government does not take these conversion processes into account to any great extent. Neither efficiency measures nor the replacement of fuels can compensate for the increased tax costs resulting from this proposal, which can lead to the draining of capital and labour from Sweden rather than contribute to environmental transition in existing businesses. I would like to ask Sultan Kayhan how it is that the Social Democrats want to pursue a policy that risks driving jobs out of the country when Sweden already has record unemployment.
i-6009480616fce0d8-462	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with the description given by Mr Westroth here. It is stated in the report and it is clear that companies have time for conversion. But if we are to take the climate crisis seriously, if we are to change, we must increase the incentives for it. That is the whole purpose of the proposal that we are debating here today. I have a question for Eric Westroth, because I often think that the Swedish Democrats say one thing but that their actions show something quite different. I went into the Swedish Democrats' website and read their spring budget for 2021. It is a document of about 40 pages. When you search the text, you don't find the word climate once. Not once on 40 pages has the word climate been printed. There is also no section on climate and environmental policy. There are no suggestions. The Swedish Democrats therefore do not have a single proposal for climate, environment and nature, despite the fact that we are in a burning climate crisis. It's a betrayal of future generations.
i-6009480616fce0d8-467	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Sultan Kayhan. No, we're not climate deniers. On the other hand, we are pursuing a policy that leads to an improved climate. Like previous speakers, we are in favour of electrification of energy in Sweden, but electricity is needed for electrification to plug in the cables at all times of the year and all day long. There nuclear power can contribute. Due to the current government's closure of nuclear power, Karlshamnsverket had to start its production during the previous year. In 2020, the Karlshamnsverket released carbon dioxide equivalent to approximately one third of the reduction that the government believes this proposal will entail. The risk is that you will have to release even more if we are to have electricity throughout the country. It is now the case that the carbon dioxide content has fallen by 24% since 2005. There are referral bodies in the bill that believe that the case will be reached anyway. And there is no law of nature that says that the industry wants to consume fossil energy. Business is already taking on a great deal of responsibility, and you do what you can with the resources you have to reduce your fossil dependence. It is interesting that tax increases are always the solution of the Social Democrats to problems. But I wonder how the Social Democrats see that this time too, it is mainly rural and sparsely populated enterprises that are affected by these tax increases.
i-6009480616fce0d8-472	Madam President, I would like I think that politics can and must be able to do several things at the same time. We will be able to handle the ongoing covid-19 pandemic and its effects while working to avoid a climate crisis. This is something that politics has a responsibility to work to cope with, so I think that the two things don't have to go against each other at all but that we politicians can take responsibility for both. Once again, I notice that the Swedish Democrats are saying one thing and doing something else. After all, I did not get an answer to the question why there is nothing in the Swedish Democrats' spring budget about climate and the environment at all. I didn't get an answer to that. I think it is remarkable that politicians put away responsibility for what we have the power to do in Sweden to other countries far away. I find it remarkable that the SD is the only party that has said no to the Paris Agreement. I find it remarkable that the SD in the European Parliament is pursuing a climate-critical policy. I find it remarkable that once they have climate and environment in their budget, as they had last year, SD wants to cut climate policy by billions. I find it remarkable that we also want to remove environmental taxes of several billions. I think that Sweden's democrats' lack of interest in climate policy and the environment is obvious, regardless of whether they try to make their own small proposals and dismiss the big ones that would actually make a real difference.
i-6009480616fce0d8-480	Madam President, I would like During this term, a large number of tax changes have been implemented in the field of energy as part of a policy that mobilises all sectors of society to meet environmental quality objectives and to ensure that we achieve the goals of a climate-neutral society without net greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden. As previously stated, the Swedish Parliament has adopted the goal that Sweden should have 50 per cent more efficient energy use in 2030 compared to 2005. The objective of this mandate under the January agreement is to put around 15 billion in a green tax exchange. The tax shift means higher taxes on environmentally harmful activities but lower taxes on labour. Properly designed, this will be a powerful tool to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies. We can remember what is happening in the northern part of our country now, with the investments being made and the developments that are taking place there. The situation can also be considered at the moment. Today we are deciding to abolish tax reductions on fossil fuels for certain activities in certain sectors, while the next report makes it more advantageous to use more self-produced solar electricity, which is already tax-exempt and which can actually be used for the same activity. I know it is a bit of a school example, but I think it is a clear and feasible incentive. Madam President, I would like There is a broad consensus in the Riksdag that the tax system has far too many exceptions and to some extent can be described as, in the absence of other words, a little bit plotty. This also applies to today's report, where some reduction is abolished but not over. It should be noted that it is not linear. In particular, I would like to highlight agriculture and forestry, where certain machinery has been abolished. The fuel for the tractor may retain its tax reduction but not the pump for irrigation. If, on the other hand, the engine is powered by electricity from a solar power unit on the roof, it has a tax reduction. In total, this reform represents a cost for soil, forestry and aquaculture of approximately SEK 30 million. It is therefore total, and it is clear that any increase in costs at total level means that competitiveness is affected. However, this term of office has also been implemented a series of reforms that we must put into relation to these 30 million. The spring budget strengthened the rural programme by SEK 417 million. This is to be added to the billion-dollar investment in rural areas that we presented last autumn. At that time, we extended the rural development programme to EUR 4.3 billion and also made record investments in important infrastructure. Madam President, I would like Almost all sectors have produced their own plans to become fossil-free, including agriculture. In addition, former LRF Chairman Helena Jonsson has been appointed to lead the investigation into the road to fossil-independent agriculture. For many years, the Center Party has been promoting a green bonus, a premium, for those farmers and foresters who want to invest in technology and engines driven by environmentally friendly fuel. We are still prepared to do so in budgetary negotiations and in all other necessary ways. We believe that this is a good incentive. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight our specific opinion on the archipelago companies in the report. As I said, the tax system must be characterised by simplicity, transparency and legal certainty. Unfortunately, however, in recent years it has become clear that the fuel taxation of boats in the archipelago has shown the exact opposite. Following a legislative amendment in July 2015, only companies transporting goods or passengers for payment have the right to use tax-free fuel for their boating activities. In addition to unclear legislation, the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation of the legislation has not only been unclear but has also changed over time. It is something that has been for direct but for entrepreneurs active in the Swedish archipelagos where the boat is a necessary part of the business. It goes without saying that there should be a level playing field for the trader who needs a vehicle in his business, whether on land or at sea. There is still a lack of clarity in the legislation that can be applied to how companies actually operate. Having said that, with our special opinion, we support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-493	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the government has introduced a number of new taxes on energy. The new taxes have been introduced on the grounds that they are directed towards reducing climate-damaging emissions, but the fact is that these taxes have often had little or no climate effect and thus only led to higher taxes and a more complicated tax system. This does not benefit anyone – neither the climate nor the Swedish companies affected by the increased taxes. That is why we Christian Democrats, for example, have opposed the increase in cogeneration tax and the introduction of a tax on waste incineration. We are critical of taxes as such, but it has also been a major problem that these taxes have been added very quickly. This has meant that the conditions for Swedish energy producers have changed abruptly and in a way that has led to a deterioration in the availability of electricity. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats share the view that fossil power should be phased out. We therefore agree fundamentally with the objective, but we believe that this needs to be done in a completely different way from the path taken by the January parties. Tax increases with doubtful climate benefits need to be replaced by investments in reliable fossil-free modern nuclear power. With regard to the tax change to be decided on today, the abolition of the energy tax on fuels in certain sectors, it is important that the government now evaluates whether the climate effects that are the objective of this change are actually achieved, so that this tax does not also prove to be ineffective symbolism policy. The consequences of changes occurring so quickly and at short notice must also be taken into account in such an evaluation. As the Christian Democrats' budget option fell into the vote of Parliament on the framework decision on the budget last autumn, we Christian Democrats will today abstain from taking a position on the bill and voting yellow in the vote.
i-6009480616fce0d8-498	Madam President, I would like Yes! That's how it finally happened. Now we have some climate debate in the Tax Committee too. As an environmental party, I am pleased to be able to discuss the proposal, which is about removing subsidies. I have listened to the speeches made by my committee colleagues, and there have been comments from both the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who say that we are in the midst of a Corona crisis and that we should not, therefore, be addressing this. At the same time, I also hear arguments that there is such little benefit to climate change. I'd like to take that to heart. I share your frustration. This is a small step, but in the right direction. That is not to say that we should completely oppose this step. I think we should embrace the road to a fossil-free and sustainable society. On that road there are small steps and sometimes big steps. I have heard arguments from the Swedish Democrats about increasing preparedness, which is very important and positive. However, as my committee colleague, Sultan Kayhan, mentioned, there is no doubt about what the next crisis can mean and what it can consist of. Scientists are united, and they have warned for decades about what we now call the climate crisis. I am a little surprised that there is no greater commitment from these parties. The UN warns that unless we prevent the climate crisis, more than 250 million people will probably become climate refugees. In view of the heated debate, we in this House should find unity by really working preventively so that people do not have to flee their home countries. Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is simply to abolish subsidies of SEK 600 million per year. It is a question of removing the reduction in energy taxes in manufacturing processes, industry and in agriculture, forestry and aquaculture. Fossil fuels such as LPG, natural gas, fuel oil and coal will be taxed higher, as we in the Green Party and many voices in the environmental movement have been demanding for a long time. The reduction in emissions is estimated at 33 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. Of course, I wish we could reduce emissions even more, that we can include others and remove even more subsidies. But this is part of the 15 billion green tax exchange to be carried out. I welcome the proposal. The Moderates have talked about the free market, that we politicians should not take hold of this, steer up or steer off subsidies. That would be terrible. The free market is fixing everything-- it's covered. But just look at what it looks like in the world. It is a climate crisis, and it is also a species crisis. We have exceeded our planetary limits, and we consume here in Sweden as if there were four planets. It's fuzzy and not durable in the long run. Free market? There are still subsidies in the Swedish budget that go to fossil activities. Globally, it is around SEK 3 000 to SEK 6 000 billion that goes to subsidise fossil fuels each year. It is not a free market that operates in a vacuum, which will only automatically take responsibility for solving our existential crises, but it is a political will where we have to step up and take responsibility. This is a small step, but in the right direction. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-506	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats, who have over time lost support from the population, naturally turn to other parties to sew up agreements, all in order to remain in power. When the Social-Democratic idea of a welfare society is perceived by them to be completed long ago, despite major shortcomings in welfare, power becomes the most important purpose instead of what one does with power. That is why the so-called Green parties have gained more and more influence over the Social Democratic leadership. This is evident in many ways, not least in environmental policy. The Green Party is like an anchor. The tone has been set, and the Center Party is following – a centre party that used to be more concerned about a well-functioning market economy. Few things, Madam President, can really be more important to work with than to create a market economy with power and dynamism in these very pandemic times of increasing unemployment. The Government's proposal for an increased energy tax exemption for self-produced electricity is in fact a departure from the market principle. It must be said to be quite symptomatic in order to come from the left-wing liberal government policy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats see a fundamental problem with the Swedish energy market. We believe that the electricity market must be characterised to a greater extent by a more balanced and fair market. A first step in this direction would be to phase out existing tax subsidies which distort the functioning of the market in various ways. Instead, the government's proposal to further increase existing tax subsidies creates a more dysfunctional electricity market. An increased energy tax exemption for self-produced electricity to the high levels proposed by the government may affect the competitive situation of those selling electricity in relation to self-production. In addition, the exemption may also indirectly affect the competitive situation of district heating and cooling. These distortions of competition are ignored on the grounds that the volumes of self-produced electricity are currently considered to be limited and that the effects are therefore small. However, with a floating limit on the levels of tax exemptions and with more possibilities to create a tax-exempt self-production of electricity, it cannot be kept for certain that volumes will be small in the future. If the objective is to create a more efficient electricity market, incentives to exit the electricity market cannot reasonably be significantly increased. Madam President, I would like Sweden is basically an industrial nation. It is the export industry that is the hub of Swedish business. Based on this, small companies can grow and welfare is financed. Jobs are added with a balanced policy that allows people to build their lives, their households and their dreams for the future. The fact that the government, on the one hand, shuts down nuclear power plants and then, on the other hand, subsidises companies' own production of electricity becomes a fundamental mistake in this context. Instead, Sweden needs to ensure that stable energy is available for the Swedish export industry and welfare sectors – around the clock and during all hours of the year. With its legislative proposals, the government creates a distorted energy market and weakens the industrial nation of Sweden. As a result of this overall assessment, we choose to reject the Government's proposal as a whole. I am in favour of reservation 1 in this report. Thank you for the floor.
i-6009480616fce0d8-514	Madam President, I would like If we are to increase the pace of the transition to a more sustainable energy system, it needs to be easier and more profitable to invest in renewable energy. Today we are debating the Government's proposal for an increased energy tax exemption for self-produced electricity. The proposal extends the exemption for self-produced electricity by increasing power limits. It also extends the existing tax reduction in the form of the self-produced renewable electricity tax return, including solar electricity, to full exemption. The limits on the tax reduction in the form of deductions are increased in the same way as the limits on the effect of the exemption. It is also important to point out that the proposal is compatible with EU law. The legislative amendments are proposed to apply from 1 July 2021. We welcome the Government's ambition to simplify renewable energy for its own use and call for approval of the bill and rejection of the motion for motion. I would like to comment on what was said by the Swedish Democrats in the speech just now. The Social Democrats were criticised for doing something when we have the power to achieve the climate goals. I think it is clear what the Swedish Democrats would do with the power if they got it. It will be clear if you look at their spring budget, where there is no mention of climate and where there are no proposals for either climate or the environment.
i-6009480616fce0d8-518	Madam President, I would like The Moderates share the Government's ambition to make it easier and more profitable to invest in renewable energy for their own use. Significantly falling costs have led to the installation of solar panels by homeowners, other property owners and companies. The purpose of the government's proposal is good. However, as consultation bodies have pointed out, there is no analysis of the consequences of a more intensive expansion of PV installations, which will inevitably occur as a natural part of the energy transition. The exemption from energy tax on self-produced electricity will certainly affect the competitive situation of those selling electricity in relation to self-production. The competition situation for district heating and cooling will also be affected by the proposal, which is regrettable as local production of district heating is partly an alternative to the expansion of electricity networks. Heat pumps may be chosen over district heating, as the self-produced electricity must be used in the building in order for the tax relief to be credited. However, the bill toned down the risks of distortion of competition on the grounds that the volumes of self-produced electricity are small, but at the same time the purpose of the tax relief is precisely to increase the volumes. The question is whether there really is a need to subsidise the self-consumed electricity production of commercial operators. In addition, subsidies are linked to certain technologies identified. It is very doubtful. Technology development has been going on for several years and today may be considered to have reached a high degree of maturity. It will certainly continue without subsidies. From the point of view of economy, it is always better to reward production than consumption. And if tax incentives or other subsidies are to be applied, it should be made technologically neutral where possible. In its consultation, Svenska Kraftnät pointed to the major challenges facing our electrical system and the difficulties of providing a reliable and efficient transmission network, which is a prerequisite for ensuring stability in weather-dependent energy production. These comments are worth considering. There is a very great danger in making us more and more dependent on weather-dependent electricity production. Madam President, I would like A favourable tax treatment of fossil-free energy increases the conditions for achieving climate targets. But there are pitfalls. What is the greatest risk of tax subsidies for solar energy, wind energy and wave energy? The risk is that when the sun shines and the wind blows, prices become very low – so low that no one wants to buy electricity from other, non-weather-dependent energy sources such as hydropower and nuclear power. These energy sources are in danger of becoming unprofitable. They are pushed away when subsidies distort competition so that the economic incentives to develop and operate these sources are lacking. This is anything but a desirable development. Especially obvious is a cold winter day when demand is on top. Sweden needs a mix of different types of energy production that can ensure electricity supply at competitive prices around the clock, all year round – throughout Sweden. Sweden needs an energy policy that creates a balance between weather-dependent and weather-independent energy sources. It is a policy that the current government lacks and will never come close to as long as an anti-development 4% party is allowed to keep its pace.
i-6009480616fce0d8-528	Madam President, I would like The amount of energy reaching the earth every day from the sun corresponds to 15 000 times the world's energy consumption. By using more solar energy and converting it into electricity, we can solve a large part of the energy problems in the world. In recent years it has become increasingly cheaper to produce solar electricity, as has also been noted by speakers before me. But in Sweden it is still unnecessarily complicated and expensive for both companies and individuals to buy and install solar cells. Therefore, the Center Party's starting point is that it will be both easier and more profitable to produce your own solar electricity. We are very pleased with the reform green deduction in the tax return for individuals and welcome this proposal as well, which increases the impact limit for tax-exempt production for companies. Madam President, I would like Interest in solar energy is growing among households and companies as well as the public. In just a few years, the number of grid-connected PV installations has more than doubled, with which there has been a significant increase in the installed power. More and more of the country's property owners, especially owners of large roofs, such as trading venues, logistics buildings, community buildings and multi-residential buildings, want to develop their own production of renewable electricity. For many companies, this is a natural part of today's business model. Unfortunately, however, today's tax rules impose a restriction. In the autumn of 2016, something happened that caused many people to put coffee in their throats. The government, with S and MP, imposed a tax on solar electricity production. The Minister of Finance was called to the Tax Committee to explain why Sweden introduced a solar tax. The tax was justified by the fact that EU rules had forced it, but when the European Commission denied this, the then government turned after only two months and reduced the tax. The tax meant that many could no longer invest in renewable electricity, with the result that it became more difficult to meet the energy requirements and the ability to achieve the environmental objectives. Madam President, I would like The increased limit from 255 kilowatt hours to 500 kilowatt hours is certainly a step forward, but it is unreasonable that Sweden should not follow other countries within the EU that have chosen to go further. Before this happens, Sweden cannot take the big step towards becoming a country at the forefront of solar energy. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party support the proposals in the proposal, but in accordance with our special opinion we believe that the limit should eventually be raised.
i-6009480616fce0d8-534	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have a policy target of 100 percent renewable production by 2040. In this great change, at least I myself am of the opinion that bottom-up involvement is an important part. The commitment should not only be top-down, but take advantage of the forces, commitment and initiatives that exist in society to actively participate in the transition. It's a very important piece of the puzzle in this. This proposal makes it easier for those who really want to produce their own electricity. We are now doubling the limit on how much electricity may be produced for own use tax-free. It is a long-awaited decision that will delight those who want to become self-sufficient in sustainable solar and wind electricity production. It will make it easier to do the right thing. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are constantly slipping into the nuclear debate. But nuclear power is the ultimate example of concentration of power, unlike setting up your own solar cells. Nuclear power is also a major safety risk. On the other hand, self-produced electricity means power decentralisation. It is a much more democratic way of supporting yourself with electricity. I do not think it should just be the market that governs, but let citizens be involved in guiding in a sustainable direction! This is, as I said, a very pleasing and green profit, part of the green tax shift. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6009480616fce0d8-540	Madam President, I would like In the bill that we are about to discuss now, the Government has put forward a number of proposals aimed at making tobacco taxation more comprehensive and clearer and countering tax evasion and double taxation. The background is that the distinction between taxable tobacco and non-taxable tobacco has been problematic and has led to a number of different legal proceedings. Among others, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Finnish Customs, but also representatives of the tobacco industry, have therefore wanted to bring about changes in tobacco taxation.
i-6009480616fce0d8-543	Other tobacco is tobacco which is not part of a live plant and which is also not taxable as cigarettes or other smoking tobacco or snuff or chewing tobacco. We Christian Democrats, like all other parties, agree with the ambition of making tobacco taxation more comprehensive, but we see that there are problems with the proposed tax at the same time. The legislation will not distinguish between raw tobacco intended for smoking and raw tobacco intended for snuff. This means, in addition to the fact that we find it unreasonable to tax smoking and snuffing in the same way, that raw tobacco intended for snuff is taxed more heavily than finished snuff. Madam President, I would like It is important to note that all tobacco use is unhealthy. At the same time, however, there are significant differences in harmful effects between different types of tobacco use, which is not taken into account in the proposed legislation. This means that a shift from smoking to snusping is made more difficult, although research indicates that the risk factor is significantly higher for smokers than for snusters. It is no coincidence that Sweden has relatively low tobacco-related mortality compared to the rest of the EU. This is in all likelihood linked to the fact that many people in Sweden prefer tobacco products other than tobacco products for smoking. It will then be wrong to reduce incentives to switch from smoking to the use of other tobacco products. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that an investigation be set up in which the harmful effects of tobacco products are grouped together and then taken into account differently in the legislation. Such a study should look at how raw tobacco intended for smoking and snus can be distinguished in legislation, so that different taxation and regulation can also be made possible. We want Parliament to announce this to the government. I therefore support this reservation.
i-6009480616fce0d8-548	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. In order to make tobacco taxation more comprehensive and clearer and to prevent tax evasion and double taxation, the report we are discussing today proposes that the Tobacco Tax Act should introduce a tax on so-called ‘other tobacco', a right of deduction for authorised warehousekeepers, and the related administrative and control rules on, inter alia, distance selling and holding taxation. The aim of taxation is, in particular, to address the problems caused by the demarcation and differences between non-taxable tobacco and non-taxable tobacco, as well as to combat the deliberate misclassification of tobacco products and the illegal handling of excise goods by operators. Tobacco taxation will thus be more comprehensive. The tobacco proposed is referred to as ‘other tobacco' and refers to tobacco which is not part of a live plant and which is not taxable as cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, smoking tobacco, snuff or chewing tobacco. Specific rules are introduced for the distance marketing of snus, chewing tobacco or other tobacco. Authorized storekeepers may deduct already paid tax on smoking tobacco used in the manufacture of tobacco products covered by the Tobacco Tax Act. A new tax liability rule is introduced for the holder of snus, chewing tobacco or other tobacco without tax on the goods having been declared in Sweden. The measures are complemented by extending the scope of the Act on the Excise Control of Transport and more of Alcohol Products, Tobacco Products and Energy Products to certain movements of snus, chewing tobacco and other tobacco. Taxation of cigarettes, cigars, cigars and smoking tobacco is harmonised within the EU through the Tobacco Tax Directive. The directive has been implemented in Swedish law by the Tobacco Tax Act. In addition, snus and chewing tobacco are also taxed in Sweden. Liquids for e-cigarettes and nicotine-containing products for oral or nasal use other than tobacco products, such as tobacco-free nicotine snus, are also subject to national tax. Madam President, I would like High prices due to high taxation are one of the most effective policy instruments that can be used to promote the health of the population while at the same time achieving the policy objectives of these products. With regard to the motion and the opinion of other parties on this matter, I would like to say a few words. This proposal seeks to address bordering problems and counter misclassification. Further differentiation of taxes risks reinforcing these problems. I also have a comment on the arguments for tax differentiation, even if a public health debate takes place in other committees. Nicotine is highly addictive. Comparing only the unhealthy effects between nicotine and tobacco smoking is risky given that tobacco smoking is one of the most dangerous things you can do for your health. It has also recently, I have seen, been referred back to a study on tougher rules for new nicotine products.
i-6009480616fce0d8-552	Madam President, I would like Actually, I think I've broken my record. This is the fourth debate in a row on the same day for me, so I look forward to lunch. Every year, 12 000 people die in Sweden as a result of smoking, and 100 000 people fall ill with smoking-related diseases. Reducing tobacco smoking is therefore, of course, a very important public health issue. Sweden took an important step in the area in 2005, when smoking bans were introduced at the restaurant. Preventing tobacco smoking is about getting fewer young people to start smoking. It is also about safeguarding the individual's freedom to avoid being exposed to other people's tobacco smoking, so-called passive smoking. When it comes to tobacco, it is important to distinguish between tobacco smoking and snuffing. The adverse health effects are significantly greater in tobacco smoking than in the use of snus. Although snuff is not a health product, there is no evidence that it directly causes cancer. Sweden today has the lowest tobacco-related mortality in the EU, as many before me have said. This is probably due to the fact that Sweden also has the lowest proportion of tobacco smokers in the EU and that many prefer snus instead. The Center Party therefore feels that it is not reasonable to introduce the same regulations for snuff as for tobacco smoking. Madam President, I would like Tobacco taxation shall not contain exemptions and shall be open to tax evasion. I and the Center Party support the proposals contained in the bill, but believe that the excise duty tool needs to be used strategically in order to reduce damage in a better way than is actually proposed today. Let me say: no nicotine products are health products. However, when it comes to the taxation of tobacco, it is important to distinguish not only tobacco smoking and snusping but also tobacco-free nicotine products. The adverse health effects are significantly greater in tobacco smoking than in the use of snus or in the use of tobacco-free nicotine products. Our low tobacco-related mortality is likely to be due to the fact that many prefer other tobacco products or non-tobacco nicotine products instead. I therefore believe that the government needs to use the excise duty tool in order to minimise damage. Taking into account the various harmful effects, a wide range of policy options would be opened up to reduce the social and medical damage caused by tobacco. But, Madam President, if we are to move forward with the excise duty tool, we need to have a tobacco strategy at the bottom, a concerted ANDTS strategy that captures the perspective of damage minimisation. This did not happen to the Government's ANDTS proposal, which is being discussed in the Social Affairs Committee. The Center Party has therefore, in a follow-up motion, called for the motion to be rejected, and it is, in fact, inclined towards that being the case. Thus, this decision-making process is in a way a little backwards and it is regardless of whether or not the government's proposal for a strategy goes through. We should first decide what policy we want in this area and only then decide how we use the excise tool. My hope is that, in a discussion of the ANDTS strategy, we can capture the damage minimisation perspective, as the Christian Democrats also describe in their follow-up motion. There we are largely in agreement. As I said, we should do things in the right order. Despite what I have said above, I choose to support the decision of the majority of the committee on this matter.
i-6009480616fce0d8-564	Madam President, I would like Anna Vikström explained very clearly the health effects of tobacco and why it is so important that we also include the other tobacco in the excise duty. The health issue is relatively well known, and so I intend to spend some time on tobacco even the environmental impact, which also exists. Each year the tobacco industry contributes to emissions of 84 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This is as much as Sweden's total consumption emissions. Every year the tobacco industry also contributes to 4.3 million hectares of agricultural land being used precisely to produce tobacco. Madam President, I would like When tobacco is produced, it must also be dried, which is done by burning with wood. So even more resources are needed when talking about land use and forests. Deforestation accounts for 20 per cent of the climate impact, and the tobacco industry plays a major role there. There is also plenty of water to produce this tobacco. The fact that land, forests and water are used for the tobacco industry while contributing actively to both the climate crisis and the species crisis is deeply problematic, while also leading to local conflicts and repression. To include other tobacco in the excise duty seems obvious to me, based on both health and environmental aspects. I am therefore very pleased that we are including the rest of tobacco in taxation in the same way as we are currently taxing smoking tobacco. After this brief speech, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-570	Madam President, I would like Freedom to do what you want in life, freedom to choose who you want to live with and how you want to live, freedom to have what interests you want and freedom to choose a profession and do it according to what you think is important to me are extremely important things. People should not be limited by standards, expectations, parents' wallet or their class background. The right for children, young people and adults to study and have the opportunity to form, improve, specialise and prepare for the future is extremely important to me. The pandemic has affected us, our society and each individual in different ways. The Pandemine may have tried us and put dreams on hold and stopped us from normal, but the construction of society does not stop. It is precisely in these times that it is more important than ever to be able to have faith and hope in the future, to feel that we are working together to maintain and nurture what is strong and, if possible, to build it even stronger. During the pandemic, the government has made great efforts and investments in our common – in welfare, in the labour market, for the industry and for the population. We have invested in healthcare, school and care, expanded and expanded the education system and created more places for both adult and higher education. We have pursued an active labour market policy that has been focused on supporting and making room for participation. Madam President, I would like Research and education contribute to freedom and growth. Social Democratic higher education policy is a regional and national growth engine that contributes to jobs, education and innovation. For me as a social democrat from Dalarna it is important that we continue to invest in the whole country to live and of high quality at all our universities. Your possibilities should not be limited by where in the country you live. You should have the opportunity to live, work and contribute where the need is. It is therefore very important that higher education institutions and universities should exist throughout the country, but also that more training places should be added in line with the increased demands of the labour market for higher education workers. The collaboration of higher education institutions with the world of work will be strengthened. Investments in research and development are the basis for Swedish companies to grow and improve. Sweden will continue to compete with new innovations and high knowledge. Then we need both outstanding basic research and future-oriented research that takes place in close collaboration between industry and academia. Madam President, I would like This report concerns the question of the possibility of giving the government a mandate to change the selection criteria in peacetime, that is, extraordinary situations just like the situation we are currently in. As I mentioned earlier, the Coronapandemy has put many parts of society to the test. One of the challenges has been to conduct good, high-quality teaching at a distance, something that many have done very well, and to ensure that our university tests can be carried out in a reliable way. It is important that all those with the necessary prior knowledge and qualifications, regardless of their background, have the opportunity to move on to higher education. Today, the general rule for the allocation of places for selection to higher education is that at least one third of the places should be allocated on the basis of grades, at least one third on the basis of the results of the higher education examination and at most one third on the basis of selection criteria determined by the university. This rule has been approved by the Riksdag and is regulated in our so-called Higher Education Regulation. The university test was cancelled by the Swedish Council for Higher Education in spring 2020. In the autumn of 2020 the test was carried out severely limited due to the spread of the virus, which we all know has devastating consequences. Two tests were planned for spring 2021, both of which, thankfully, could be carried out. However, if either or both of these tests could not have been carried out for reasons of infection protection, it could have meant that the ability of individuals to compete in the selection for higher education in autumn 2021 would have been affected so much that the general rule for the allocation of places in selection could not remain. The fact that the university test has been cancelled or limited affects how many people have had the opportunity to write the university test and can compete with a university test result. The effect of this could be that more people compete only with ratings. It is against this background that the committee supports the temporary suspension of the general rule on the allocation of places for selection to higher education so that the proportion of seats allocated on the basis of university test results can be temporarily reduced with a view to temporarily increasing the proportion of seats allocated on the basis of grades. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-583	Madam President, I would like I have no request other than the majority in committee on this matter. The proposal in the bill is about whether the government has to cancel a university test. This is not about, as I think the Left Party has misunderstood a little, whether to cancel university tests or not. It is therefore a question of when we are faced with the completion of the fact that the university exams are cancelled and what we should do then. We must, of course, fill up the places that we have in good and sensible training. There may not be enough qualified from the university exam. We must be pragmatic, and we must manage the country in some sense. We cannot just engage in party politics, as we may all do too much. We must ensure that the higher education system works, we must ensure that the seats are filled and we must be pragmatic. I can well imagine a situation when we do not want to cancel a university test but that it will be cancelled anyway. We cannot be angry that we did not get our way, but that we had to make things work. That is why we are calling for approval of the government proposal. It's pure pragmatism. Then I have a little bit reflected that a third should always come in through the university exam. It's not a natural law like Newton's natural law. We have decided at some point that this should be the case. But no one says it should be. There are some courses where there is a very poor pass-through for those who come in through the university exam, and where there is much better pass-through for those who come in on grades. This applies, for example, to certain teacher training courses. In fact, I think we should think a little bit about this with a third coming in through the university exam. Having said that, I really think we should take care of and keep the university test. I'm gonna give students a second chance. I have many acquaintances who have taken a second chance and entered the university. But I don't think a third should be a sacred cow in every education. Madam President, I would like Finally, I do not think that this will be a problem. We are here debating, but I believe that we are debating a non-problem in many respects. Summer's coming. I think the number of infected will decrease, but perhaps not as much as last summer. But the number will fall sharply. People have started to receive large amounts of vaccination. I've been given the first shot myself. This autumn I do not think that the pandemic will spin as it did last autumn. I'm pretty convinced of that. Then a very large part of our population is vaccinated, and most vaccines have a protective effect of 95%. I do not think that this will be a problem in the future. This may not have been known by the government when it tabled the bill. Of course, it is only positive if we do not have to use this law.
i-6009480616fce0d8-593	Madam President, I would like This case is about introducing an exception rule that allows the government to allocate places to college in a different way than normal and the usual if required in the event of extraordinary events in peacetime, as it is expressed. The case is called for because of the coronapndemine, which has disrupted the possibilities of conducting the university test in the past. As we know, the test had to be cancelled last spring, and last autumn the test was carried out with certain limitations due to the spread of the infection. The university test has now been conducted in a good, safe and contagious way during the spring on two occasions. The rule that we are discussing today should not be applicable in the autumn. It may, in the worst case, become relevant in the future if, for example, the pandemic takes a different path from the one we hope and believe in. But it may also be relevant for other reasons that we do not know about today. Normally, the places are distributed by at least one third each on the basis of grades and university test scores and a maximum of one third on the basis of local selection criteria. It is this distribution that can be changed by the government. The university exam is very important, and the ratio reserved for the university exam is absolutely crucial for a great many prospective students. It has been added to enable a second chance where the grades have not been sufficient, but also because the grade system in comprehensive school and upper secondary school has a lot of problems and backsides. Study stress, unreasonable performance requirements and lack of equivalence are some of the back pages that we see in the rating system. Had we only had grades as a single selection for higher education, many skilled and high-performance prospective students had been sifted away, perhaps because of temporary life situations during high school years. You can simply be what we call school-tired. School fatigue is not a very good or precise concept. But you can still use it. It's a symptom of a very wide range of causes. But mental ill-health, problematic home conditions, and so on, can really help to reduce performance in school and in upper secondary school, and grades go down. Excellency is a concept that we usually use. This usually means that those who are best placed to perform in research – but this also applies to education – should be rewarded. Those who have the best conditions to assimilate the programme must have priority in the selection for admission to the university. But that's not actually what high school grades measure. High school grades measure something else. These are past achievements, not future achievements. The university test is both an opportunity for a second chance and, I think, actually a better working tool than grades for selection based on, for example, the Excellency principle. However, if, due to a pandemic, for example, fewer people have written the test, it is reasonable to deviate from the normal regulatory framework and perhaps reduce the proportion adopted through the university test. Madam President, I would like The bill that we are discussing and that the Riksdag will adopt is one of many measures that the government has taken in the field of higher education and research due to the coronapandemia. To secure the university test, after last spring's cancelled exam, new funds have been set aside – SEK 30 million last year and the same amount this year. A special coordinator has been appointed, and this spring two tests instead of one, as I mentioned, have been successfully carried out. And for the next few years, three samples will continue to be available each year. The validity period of the tests has also been extended from previous five years to eight years, to counteract the effect of any missed university exams. If there are continued problems with carrying out full-scale tests – we do not know where the pandemic is going – there is also the possibility of limiting the number of participants in different ways, which we have used. The S-MP government has also for several years been targeting the number of places in higher education, which increases the level of education in the country. Although the rollout began long before the pandemic, it also meets the effects of the pandemic by allowing more people to choose to study an education when the labour market is faltering. In the run-up to the summer, the government will also strengthen the opportunities for higher education institutions to organise more summer courses. More resources for higher education institutions and more study funding will also provide additional study places this year, just like last year. Measures have also been taken to strengthen distance learning, which we have learned a great deal from over the past year. This and many other things have been done. So what we decide now is to temporarily depart from the general rule for the allocation of places in selection to the university in the event of extraordinary events in peacetime, which is another one in the series of government measures. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-607	Madam President, I would like It is the Riksdag that decides on admission quotas and whether it should be grades, university examinations or the universities themselves. Now the government wants the opportunity to temporarily depart from the general rule on the allocation of places in selection to the university in the event of extraordinary events in peacetime. The reason is that the university exam was cancelled in the spring of 2020 and that it was given limited during the autumn. The whole basis for this case is that there was a risk that the coronapandemia would cause the university test to be cancelled also in the spring of 2021 for reasons of infection protection. When we are today to debate and decide on the matter, we know that the university test could be conducted in spring 2021. The UHR has so far not received reports of major incidents on the last occasion. On the first occasion, a few individual tests were cancelled, but the writers were then referred to the May occasion. We therefore know that there is no reason for the government to depart from the rules on the basis of the reasoning in this case. It would be reasonable for the majority to withdraw the whole report. On the Left side, we were prepared to say yes to the proposal if it were the case that the university test was cancelled during the spring. This did not happen, however, and it would therefore be logical for the other parties to support our reservation now that the proposal is not withdrawn. In addition, the UHR and the higher education institutions have shown that they can carry out the test despite the pandemic and that the government's power to amend the Riksdag's decision on the general rule for the allocation of places when selecting for the university is not necessary for the university test. We know that the UHR and the universities can adapt. If they could organise the test this spring, they would also be able to organise it in the future if the pandemic were to continue. There is also time to change the rules for admission to spring 2022 if necessary. Unlike many other issues where the government may need a mandate to make changes at short notice, admission to the university takes place twice a year – three if you include the summer courses. There is therefore plenty of time for the Riksdag to make the necessary changes if the admission rules need to be changed. Equal access to education is a question of justice and equality. The same applies to an open and, at the same time, clear admission system. There may be many reasons to review the rules for selection to the university in order for the university to be open to as many as possible and for as many as possible to be able to study at the university, but it is a matter for the Riksdag to decide – not the government. Madam President, I would like I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-613	Madam President, I would like Today we have two debates in succession that in different ways affect how we can identify those who are here in Sweden. Basically, it is about us having control over our borders and maintaining regulated immigration. Identity documents shall be safe and given to the right persons. Unfortunately, we are seeing major shortcomings here today, and in my speech in the next debate I will dwell more on the problems that we see linked to a growing shadow society and what measures we Moderates want to see to combat them. But first we will debate the question of adapting Swedish rights to a new EU regulation. The Regulation is intended to strengthen the security requirements for national identity cards, residence cards and permanent residence cards and will apply from 2 August this year. The background to the regulation is that there are currently significant differences in the level of security, format and content of identity cards for Union citizens and residence documents issued by Member States to Union citizens and their family members. These differences increase the risk of abuse and counterfeiting and make it difficult for citizens of the Union to exercise their right to free movement. We Moderates agree with the proposition that high-quality documents are a prerequisite for effective and secure verification of the authenticity of a document and the identity of a person. It is important to reduce the risks of abuse and counterfeiting while improving the ability of Member States to control the identity of persons. All of this, in turn, is a prerequisite for free movement within the EU, which is a fundamental part of European cooperation – which we want to protect. That is why we support the proposals in the proposal. However, in order to further increase the security of identity documents, we are also behind the Swedish Democrats' request that it be easier to take up biometric data and save them for longer. We also support the proposal to investigate the possibility of including fingerprints in the police's passport and national identity card registers, in order to prevent a person from having multiple identity documents. As I said, this is precisely the question we will come back to in the next debate, when I will also come back with a more thorough discussion of these important issues linked to identity. Having said that, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 1, Madam President.
i-6009480616fce0d8-619	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about Sweden having to start saving and checking fingerprints in certain ID documents under certain EU rules. These are not the usual documents, i.e. residence cards and passports, but the very rare residence cards that go to relatives of EEA citizens. But it is also about the national ID card, which can well be said to be the small sister of our national Swedish passport. Fingerprints already exist and are checked in residence cards and passports, so the proposals we are debating today are hardly innovative. We are simply making sure that the same rules are put in place everywhere. The Government's proposal is also nothing new in substance, but only a consequential change to the change made to EU law. The whole thing can surely be perceived as something unsexy or boring. But, Madam President, there is a saying that the devil is in the details. Fingerprints are a type of biometric, i.e. data that can be stored and processed in order to carry out searches and similar processing in databases. Photos and DNA profiles can also be biometric data. Or can they? At the Finnish Immigration Service you book a time to leave biometrics, i.e. photo and fingerprints. But based on what the legislation looks like, and based on what some consultation bodies say, it is unclear what really counts as biometrics. This has implications for people's privacy but also for the work of sharing data between authorities. What happens if the Migration Board has one interpretation and the police have another? Can they really share biometric data on illegal migrants, for example? Generally speaking, Madam President, there is confusion about the legislation on biometric data and how they are defined, how they can be used, how they can be stored, how they can be shared and so on. Authorities such as the police and the Migration Agency have mentioned this several times in different contexts, and this has also been done by the Swedish Tax Agency, for example. There has to be some kind of change here. It must be clear to everyone how we define biometrics. It must be easier to take up biometric data and to save them for a long time in different databases. It must also be made easier to use the data in processing – to make punches and comparisons and to use advanced searches and matches, both between departments and authorities and, in some cases, automatically, for example, for identification. The objective, Madam President, must be greater efficiency and greater security both in terms of the control of the entry and residence of foreigners in Sweden and in terms of such things as population records and payments from welfare systems. This is an area with great potential for improvement, as it is usually called, and the government should urgently investigate what improvements can be made. Perhaps the most important reform in this area would concern permanent registers with biometric data. At present, biometric data are not saved except in certain specific cases. What are the consequences? When you do a check of a person's ID card you can see that it is the same person in the picture as in reality. You can also check that fingerprints match the person standing in front of you. What you don't see, however, is that he or she can have three other ID cards with the same photo and the same biometrics but with three completely different identities. This is a gap that inevitably leads to cheating and exploitation of different systems. The 2017 ID card investigation suggested, among other things, that it would be possible to perform automated searches for biometric data. Several authorities have also asked for this time and again. Unfortunately, the government's proposal does not solve the system errors that exist. It does not close the gaps exploited by unscrupulous criminals and organised criminal gangs. Madam President, I would like What must happen is simply that we get proper central databases with biometric information about all foreigners who reside in Sweden, so that you can be sure that the person standing in front of you at Försäkringskassan, at the bank or whatever it is is actually the person that it should be. So we have a chance to almost completely eliminate the subsidy fraud and hit a hard blow against false identities. But it is important that we actually dare to do something about this. Last but not least, Madam President, I would like to mention the foreign Swedes. They have often suffered as a result of reforms concerning passport requirements and similar documents. It is not easy, for example, if you live in Los Angeles and the only place where you can leave biometric data for a new passport is in Washington, many thousand kilometers away. Our Nordic neighbours have already managed to solve this problem, including mobile passport units. Surely Sweden can also try to take care of Swedes both at home and abroad? I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1.
i-6009480616fce0d8-634	Madam President, I would like Statistics from the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Frontex, show that Sweden has had and has serious problems with the misuse of a number of identification documents. Swedish documents are used for an abusive purpose, and for several years Swedish documents have been among those most frequently found by the Agency. This concerns, in particular, people who are trying to get into Europe with another person's travel document. I therefore support reservation 1 on biometric data, in which SD proposes that the government investigate the definition of biometric data, improve the management of biometrics and allow these data to be stored in databases. The Christian Democrats welcome this bill. It will lead to safer residence documents that will make counterfeiting and abuse more difficult. The addition – the reservation – that exists here today is about investigating the possibility of including biometric data and how to improve the handling and to save it in databases so that we further raise the level of being able to ensure that we know that the person standing in front of us or coming into our country is really the person he or she claims to be. Such an investigation should, of course, be surrounded by and conducted with the greatest possible care, in terms of people's integrity. It is important to make use of this, but it is not a reason not to carry out such an investigation. Rather, we see it as very logical that such an investigation should take place, not least now that we are looking at how to launch the proposals that the ID card investigation has presented.
i-6009480616fce0d8-638	Madam President, I would like What we are now debating can go by as another decision in which we adapt Swedish rights to a new EU regulation. That is the case; that is the decision we make. But it is also a decision that increases our security and creates greater control over who is staying in our country and reduces the risk of abuse and counterfeiting of residence documents. The proposal we are now discussing in this report creates greater uniformity in terms of identity cards and residence documents. What is laid down in the EU Regulation and now incorporated into Swedish law is that such documents must contain the holder's photograph and two fingerprints. What this means in practice is a clearer common European standard for these documents. It also makes the documents which do not require fingerprints more difficult to forge. I note that the consultation bodies welcomed the proposals. The proposal also provides for the obligation to allow certain authorities to take fingerprints at different times, for example, in order to ensure that they are consistent with the data on the identity document. The legislative amendments we are now considering are proposed to enter into force on 2 August this year. Madam President, I would like In this type of case we often have a debate which at one end is about personal integrity and at the other end is about the need to control. I think most of us realize that we live in a society where our security depends on us knowing which people are moving in society and whether they have the identity they state. It is therefore important that we constantly develop methods of combating counterfeiting and attempts to adopt a false identity. It also facilitates our ability to control this throughout the EU if we have a common regulatory framework. This is therefore certainly an adaptation of Swedish rights to a new EU regulation, but it is also a way to increase our security in Sweden. I understand the reservations that exist that the reserveers support the bill, but that they also want to discuss further measures and that the proposals should not make it more difficult for foreign Swedes. Of course, it is also our ambition to take further steps to further increase security, but also to do so without making it more difficult for foreign Swedes. This is a work which must continue to be developed and which also takes place in other contexts and in other investigations. But it is important that we get these legislative changes in place, regardless of the other work that is going on. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-6009480616fce0d8-647	Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have mentioned, we are going to talk here and now about two areas of concern each other. I will therefore be brief in this very debate. Freedom of movement is one of the pillars and one of the finest and absolutely most important things of the European Union. On 20 June 2019, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Regulation on safer identity cards for citizens of the European Union. The Regulation reinforces the security requirements for national identity cards, residence cards and permanent residence cards. There are currently too many differences in the level of security, format and content of identity cards for the Member States and citizens of the Union. It is therefore a good thing that we get clearer guidelines and more coherence on how these identity documents should look. These differences increase the risk of abuse and counterfeiting and cause difficulties for citizens and their families in exercising their right to free movement. This is therefore an important change in the fight against fraud and irregularities, but also in order to preserve freedom of movement. The Center Party believes that it is a balanced bill that the government has put forward. We therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety.
i-6009480616fce0d8-651	Madam President, I would like For many years and many governments, Sweden has been pursuing an unsustainable immigration policy. Many who have come here and received a no have never returned to their homelands. Regulated immigration is under great pressure when, in too many cases, a 'no' does not mean a 'no' in practice. If you apply for asylum here and are deemed to have protection reasons, and therefore have the right to stay, you should have every opportunity to create a new life here in security. But if, in a trial, you don't, you're supposed to leave the country. Unfortunately, that is not how it works today. Only half of them leave the country voluntarily. More and more people are becoming part of an ever greater shadow society where people, not least women and children, are suffering very badly. No one knows today how many people live here illegally. There's an old investigation that's talking about 50,000 people and cops talking about double. We simply no longer have control over who is staying in Sweden. Coordination numbers are misused, and identity documents are hidden and reused by several. Authorities are sending double signals. When a court rejects a residence permit and decides on expulsion, an authority pays a grant to the same person or refuses to disclose information on the location of the person. We Moderates have presented comprehensive proposals to wipe out the shadow society and get a functioning return on the ground. We propose, among other things, more detention places, electronic surveillance, a ban on subsidies for illegal residents, the obligation to inform authorities and the suspension of aid to countries that refuse to receive their own citizens. However, in addition to all these urgent measures, we need to be better at dealing with identity issues. We need to ensure identity more quickly and better, and to give the authorities sharper tools for carrying out checks. Today it is far too easy for people to stay away or behave under different identities in Sweden. This makes it more difficult to combat the shadow society and crime, but also to identify security threats. Sweden must focus more on identity issues, become better at controlling who is in the country but also carry out more checks. These are issues that are partly dealt with in the report that we are debating here today. The government's proposal certainly means steps in the right direction, for example, that one should be able to photograph someone and take the person's fingerprints, but also introduce a limit on the number of foreigners' passports that may be issued. However, the proposals do not go far enough and, unfortunately, many important proposals are missing. Firstly, the police must be given better tools for internal checks on foreigners. For example, there must be an opportunity to search people and belongings to search for ID documents. In the investigation "Cleared identity" – about the right of foreigners to reside in Sweden, internal checks on aliens and misuse of identity documents, it appears that passport documents were missing when registering asylum applications in between 81 and 91 per cent of the cases in 2011–2016. Sometimes there are ID documents, but they are not presented to the authorities. When such documents are withheld, a great deal of resources must be spent on investigation. Residence permits can be granted to a person with a wrong identity, and the same person can be granted a residence permit under different identities. These are just some of the problems. In the case of internal foreigner control, a foreigner is certainly obliged to hand over passports or other documents showing that he or she has the right to reside in Sweden upon request. Unfortunately, however, people are withholding identity documents from the authorities, sometimes after advice from smugglers or other migrants. Other objects, such as mobile phones, are also withheld, which could facilitate identification. In the investigation Cleared identity – about the right of foreigners to reside in Sweden, internal immigration controls and misuse of identity documents, there is a concrete proposal about the possibility of body visas and examination of the foreigner's luggage and other belongings, if it is necessary to find out identity and the right to stay here. However, the government has not put forward such a proposal, and I find that regrettable. We also believe that the provision on taking photographs and fingerprints in an internal foreigner's check should be binding. In addition, we want to investigate the possibility of taking DNA tests in internal foreign controls, as this would increase the security of identification. That is why we are in favour of reservation 5. Secondly, the authorities must be able to take care of passports and other identity documents in more cases than they are today. Today, the Migration Agency and the Police Authority have the opportunity to take care of passport documents or other identity documents if a person applies for a residence permit. The Moderates believe that it should be possible to do so regardless of whether the person applies for a residence permit or not. The right to take care of passports and other identity documents should also be granted to more authorities, such as the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Coast Guard and the Swedish Work Environment Agency, as they are border control authorities and participate in workplace checks. Finally, thirdly, we must protect the children. The current age limit for fingerprinting an internal foreigner's check is 14 years. The government does not propose any change, although the Return Investigation proposes an age limit of six years. As the investigation states, it is important to be able to identify minors who reside in the country and who may need help and support from the authorities in order not to risk harming, being subjected to crime or being involved in crime themselves. The Finnish Immigration Service has also stated that from a children's perspective, a positive view is given of reduced age for biometric uptakes. At EU level, six years are also proposed as an age limit for fingerprints, and the application for a residence permit is currently in some cases six years. It is desirable that the rules on age limits for fingerprints be as uniform as possible in the area of migration. Therefore, the government should return with proposals for a six-year limit. Madam President, I would like It's serious now. We must give our authorities the right tools to combat the growing shadow society, to maintain regulated immigration and to prevent suffering. Therefore, I can only regret that the government does not choose to go further and go forward with the many good proposals contained in various investigations. I note that there is yet another issue that a future moderate government must address.
i-6009480616fce0d8-672	Madam President, I would like Protecting children's safety is important. I believe that everyone in this House agrees on this, even at a full Parliament of 349 Members. To reduce the risk of human trafficking, I believe that no Member, regardless of the party colour, is against. Today there is a golden opportunity to make a real effort. The proposal we are debating today on certain identity issues in foreign law proposes that the Migration Agency or the police should be able to photograph foreigners and take their fingerprints if neither the foreigner's identity nor the right to reside in Sweden can be clarified. That's a good suggestion. So far, so good. However, Madam President, the proposals in the report on which the proposal is based are different from those of the government, and here we come to the question of how to look at the safety of children and how to protect them. Instead of trying to ensure identity even on real children, the majority in the committee is content to protect only teenagers and adults. Instead of giving the possibility of fingerprinting children from 6 years of age, as the investigation suggests, the government and support parties choose 14 years of age as their age. This is done even though the government itself says that minors live in Sweden illegally, in the shadow society, or are exploited in human trafficking. This is done despite the fact that the Migration Agency believes that it would help the agency to draw attention to signs of human trafficking at an earlier stage than today and provide increased opportunities to identify otherwise vulnerable children. This is done despite the fact that the European Commission points out the importance of protecting children and making fingerprints useful for automated searches at the age of six. Children's appearance, on the other hand, changes rapidly at that age, making identification from photographs more difficult and less effective. Reducing the age of leaving biometrics in controls would thus be part of combating abuse and protecting children from being ruthlessly exploited. From a child's perspective, it must surely be seen as positive changes. In our reservation 1, which I also support, there is a simple and effective amendment of the proposed legislative text, from 14 years to 6 years. Here, all Members today can make an effort to protect the safety of children by simply pressing the right button. Madam President, I would like I will also take this opportunity to criticise the government, and it is also quite serious. The slowness shown by the government in the preparation of the forthcoming legislation on migration is so extensive that the work of the Riksdag is jeopardised. With regard to the amendment of the law I mentioned, there was a preliminary majority in favour of the Swedish Democrats' proposal. What then happened was that so many cases were lumped together as a result of the large migration bill that it was unreasonable to ask the committee to prepare in parallel a sharp legislative proposal, with referral procedure, legal advice and all that else means. This means that today we are seeing two reservations on the same theme, one with sharp legislation and one with an announcement. We could have a majority in favour of a sharp bill aimed at protecting children from human trafficking and misery, but now that is not the case. The fact that the opposition's possibilities in this way are cut off by the government's slowness is not worthy of Swedish democracy. Madam President, I would like Let us return to the issue itself. In addition to the issue of age limits, there are other things worth reviewing. The government has rejected several of the proposals of the investigation, which should have remained. The question of the possibility for the police to bring a foreigner with an unknown identity and residence status to the station for further investigation is not included in the legal text. Since this is a question of exercising power against people, it should not be on a trivial or unclear basis, but on this point there must be transparency and clarity so that the police know in each such matter that they will take the people with them for further investigation – cannot or should not. It shall be binding. Madam President, I would like If we are to get proper control over who actually resides in Sweden, we must give the police the right tools to cope with that task. It is not just a question of providing the financial resources required for proper internal checks on foreigners, but also of giving the right powers. If you meet with foreigners with unclear identity and who cannot prove their right to reside in the country, it must of course be checked. The only ones who benefit from such controls not being carried out are refugee smugglers, traffickers and others who live by exploiting people in vulnerable situations. An easy way to control in today's digital society who someone is and their travel routes is to get the chance to control mobile phones and other digital media. It is hardly to be regarded as a major interference with privacy in the event that someone is here without being able in any way to prove their identity and reason to be here. If it then turns out that a person actually lacks permission and is in Sweden illegally, new problems arise that must be resolved. The fact that the number of detention centres in Sweden is severely undersized is a well-known fact, and with the stubbornness of a fool, I intend to continue to nag that this activity must of course be expanded when the situation demands it. The harmful shadow society that has emerged over the last 20 years must be reduced, and then it is not good enough to release illegal migrants free on Swedish streets because of lack of space. As far as travel documents are concerned, we welcome the fact that, after many years of inaction, the government finally wants to limit the possibility of collecting foreign passports on an assembly line. Unfortunately, the proposal is toothless as anyone can still pick up three new passports over a five-year period and almost everyone will also be subject to an exception to this rule. Madam President, I would like Finally, we come to the issue of biometrics, which was also the subject of the last debate. The investigation suggested that Sweden should work for an EU-wide database with data on permits, while the Migration Agency and others proposed a central Swedish database with fingerprints for foreigners. Such a database would in one stroke make all cheating with identities, contributions and the like almost impossible because one could always check a natural person against such a database. The police believe that the issue is both urgent and urgent, and that is it. For example, we would like to avoid more Iraqi ministers who are working on Swedish welfare. This must be the end of passivity and let-go attitude from the government. Just get to the point and investigate the issue of databases. Madam President, I would like Trust is good, but control is better.
i-6009480616fce0d8-699	Madam President, I would like What do you look like if you're Swedish? This is an issue that is relevant to the debate we have here today. After the election, the number of foreign-born members of the new parliamentary groups was compiled. The Left Party has the highest proportion of parliamentary parties, while some other parties have no foreign-born members at all. Interestingly, many automatically assumed that Nooshhi Nooshi is one of the foreign-born members of the Left Party parliamentary group. She's not. Nooshi was born and raised here in Sweden. It's not me, though. You can see this as a funny little anecdote, but the fact is that it says something about what we are debating here today and about the image of who belongs or does not belong to Swedish society and the community. Because, Madam President, if we were to bring all Members of Parliament together in a place where internal checks on foreigners are carried out, it would not be by chance that which of us is controlled. Some members of Parliament would be checked more frequently than others. In other words, Nooshi and Members who, like Nooshi, have black hair or darker skin, would run a much higher risk of being seen as foreigners than I am. Many people in Sweden already know this very well. For them, this kind of identifying everyday life is. Almost a quarter of Sweden's population has a foreign background of some kind – 24 percent. In Sweden we have roots in Kiruna, Kabul, Karlstad and Kigali. The report Guilty until proven otherwise by the Arena Group shows some of the consequences of the internal immigration controls that are already being carried out. It is clear that there are significant differences between regions and individual police officers in how and whether control is documented and recorded at all. This means that there are people who have been controlled but cannot get information about why they have been stopped. Nor can they appeal. The violation and legal uncertainty that this entails for the individual is an understatement of a modern rule of law such as Sweden. This is further supported by the National Police Board's supervisory report from 2014. The report Randomly selected by Civil Rights Defenders in collaboration with Stockholm University interviewed people who have been checked repeatedly without seeing for themselves any reason other than their origin. This creates a sense of vulnerability and of being identified as a criminal, even though in some cases it is a victim of crime itself, which in turn leads to lower confidence in both the police and society at large. It is in the light of this reality that we need to examine the new proposals that the government has now put on the table of Parliament. The proposals are complex and concern issues of personal integrity and the limits of the constitutional protection against forced physical intervention, as well as Article 8(1) of the ECHR on the right to the protection of private and family life, which in some cases means a right to protection against, for example, being photographed. We therefore need the State to control and regulate immigration and to curb possible crime on the one hand and the rights of the individual enshrined in the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights on the other. Such a balance imposes very far-reaching requirements on the proportionality assessment that needs to be carried out in order to infringe personal integrity and forced physical intervention and to ensure non-discrimination. There are very strong historical reasons why the protection of individuals' freedom and the protection of minorities against discrimination and coercion needs to be very strong and cannot simply be ignored by comprehensive wording without a very careful proportionality assessment. We know that states, both in the present and in the past, have committed serious abuse or intrusion into the integrity and body of individuals as well as against minorities. It is therefore a heavy responsibility for democratic rule of law to ensure that it is not repeated. The fact that such complex and difficult balances take time is quite reasonable. Less reasonable is that the government, despite the serious criticism of the proposals made by the Law Council, has not corrected the shortcomings pointed out by the Law Council, nor has it referred back to the revised proposals in the Law Council referral, as requested by the Law Council. The Council's criticism is therefore harsh and should be taken very seriously by the government. Two key proposals in the referral consider the Legislative Council to be so inadequate and substandard that they cannot form the basis for legislation. It is about the proposal that the Migration Agency and the Police Authority should be given the opportunity to photograph an alien or take his or her fingerprints during an internal foreigner's check, and about the proposal on how the photographs and fingerprints should be further processed, thus being saved for future use. The Legislative Council is also critical of the preparation of the proposals and questions the fundamentals, i.e. the need and usefulness of several of the proposals. Although the concept of ethnic profiling does not appear in the Council of Law referral, it must be interpreted as warning that the proposals open up to this very point. The fact that such heavy objections from the Law Council are completely ignored by the government is very serious from a preparation and democracy perspective. The report of the inquiry met with at least as severe criticism from the referral bodies, including the JO, JK, DO and the Bar Association. The legislative referral differs in several ways from the report, but substantial shortcomings remain, as pointed out by the Law Council. Yet the government is moving on. The Left Party believes that the proposal is so flawed with regard to the proposals on control measures for internal control of aliens that it should be rejected. The proposals are poorly substantiated, their needs are insufficiently identified and the consequences are not analysed in such a way as to be expected when dealing with such serious proposals. It is clear that the risk of ethnic profiling and discrimination against individuals is imminent if the proposals are implemented. The fact that it is difficult to see what objective and concrete circumstances an internal foreigner's control could be based on, with the exception of cases where the police have an intelligence image, creates in itself a great risk of arbitraryness which rhymes very badly with the specificity, clarity and predictability requirements set out in Article 8 of the ECHR. In addition, arbitrariness creates a risk of racial profiling. If such a difference in treatment based on race can be demonstrated, it is highly unlikely that one would not be judged for breaching Article 14 of the same Convention. Discrimination based on race is offensive in itself, even in cases where the action resulting from discrimination, such as an identity check, is not considered to be specific intervention. Discrimination is even more serious if it results in more intervention measures, such as violence. It is therefore very worrying that the government wants to introduce powers for more intervention measures without analysing or managing the risk of discrimination. It is questionable whether such a system meets the requirements of Article 14 of the ECHR. Nor should the consequences for society as a whole be ignored when certain sections of the population are only suspected because of their origins. What happens to children and young people who grow up with the experience of seeing their mother or father checked for no particular reason? What happens to people who do not feel that they can get an explanation for – or the opportunity to appeal – these controls, which in many cases have not even been declared or documented? And what happens to that part of the population, such as myself, which is never controlled but which sees other inhabitants being taken aside because of its origins? In a society that is already segregated from both ethnic origin in the labour market and in residential areas, such measures will deepen and exacerbate structural racism. It is not a road that we in the Left Party want to go. Against this background, the Left Party considers that the bill should be rejected in the parts relating to control measures in the context of internal immigration control. I request the approval of reservation 2. The proposal to prevent abuse of travel documents by the Left Party has no objection. The Government has revised the investigation's proposal based on the objections raised by the consultation bodies. It is, of course, important to prevent fraud with travel documents and perfectly reasonable to harmonise the rules applicable to different types of travel documents. Madam President, I would like Finally – although it is essentially the government's proposal that we are debating, I must take this opportunity to say something brief about the blue-brown government option that is becoming increasingly clear. If we look at the proposals made by M, KD and SD, we see the sketch of a rather hair-traveling control society. These are proposals that are more reminiscent of the monitoring that exists in authoritarian regimes, both now and historically, than is expected in a liberal democracy like ours. If the legislative and consultation bodies had extensive and strong criticism of the proposals made by the government, I dare not even think about what they would say about what is being presented by M, KD and SD. In their eagerness to compete to come up with proposals that in various ways can trample on and suspect people with roots outside Sweden, the blue-brown majority are prepared to go very far. Suggestions such as mandatory photography and fingerprints – whether they are needed – body visa, examination of handbags and luggage and even the possibility of taking DNA samples are lined up. The fact that DNA tests according to the European Court of Human Rights are to be seen as an even greater breach of privacy than fingerprints does not seem to concern this gang. This is a development that should frighten many of us, Madam President, not least all those in Sweden who look more like Nooshi than I do.
i-6009480616fce0d8-724	Madam President, I would like When a civilian investigator at the border police a couple of years ago stated that a parallel society is growing and we have lost control of who is here, the identity issue was once again in focus. But it's not new. Already in 2015, the Finnish Immigration Service wrote: Through information provided by the public and police, we have discovered people who have a residence permit but who have applied for asylum in another identity. We have come across Swedish citizens of foreign origin who have applied for asylum. There are people who have been granted a residence permit for reasons of association and have been able to enter the country legally, and then apply for asylum under a different identity. Few, if anyone, I think then, would well live in some kind of delusion that this by ensuring identities works properly here in Sweden. It may seem – I still think – to be fundamental that we know who is coming into our country. Madam President, I would like This is, of course, serious in every way. It is ultimately a matter of maintaining confidence in the asylum system and public order and security. We are now discussing a bill that aims to identify more people who are illegally staying in Sweden and to counteract abuse of both travel documents and foreign passports. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support the reservations put forward by the Christian Democrats, but in order to save time, I only ask for the approval of reservation 5 on the extension of powers. We Christian Democrats want to see further measures to improve the control of the people who are in our country and therefore want the government to come back as soon as possible with proposals on, for example, the possibility of body visas and examination of baggage, hand luggage, handbags and the like during a so-called internal foreigner's check. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the current situation is a real threat to Sweden's national security. Against this background, we welcome the government proposal that is now under discussion. We believe that it can counter this worrying situation. Overall, the proposals contained in the bill should be able to help reduce the number of people illegally present in Sweden and counteract the abuse of identity documents that we know exist today. Hopefully this will lead to reduced labour exploitation and regular human trafficking and to an improved security situation in the country. However, the criticism of the Christian Democrats is that these proposals have been too long and that they are not enough. The parallel society that currently exists and continues to grow must be prevented with the strength that the public can jointly mobilise with resources, regulations and methods. We have therefore proposed a series of additional measures to achieve the objective of significantly reducing the number of irregular residents here in Sweden. We believe that the powers of the Political Authority should be extended in order to carry out better and more rigorous internal checks on aliens. The Christian Democrats have put forward what the police also think is important: that, in order to establish the identity of the person, one should be able to take care of and empty digital media when a person lacks documents and refuses to cooperate. This is what it is all about. This is something that both the Police and the Security Service are asking for and are already possible in a number of other European countries. The Christian Democrats have also suggested that it would be desirable to review the possibility for the police to take DNA tests. The reason is that DNA tests further increase the safety of an identification. We also believe, like the Migration Agency, that a national fingerprint register should be established for holders of residence permits. It would in itself make it more difficult for individuals to behave under multiple identities. We have also proposed that the foreign authorities should have a new category of staff: ID experts. They should be set up in order to better combat the abuse of counterfeit identity documents contained there. We also recently heard from the Director-General of the Migration Agency that it is a proposal that the Migration Agency is currently preparing. Madam President, I would like Finally, in the ongoing negotiations on the revision of the Eurodac Regulation and the Visa Code, it is proposed that six years should apply as an age limit for fingerprints. Allowing fingerprints to be taken on children from the age of six increases the ability to capture and secure the integrity of vulnerable children. The return investigation notes that there are strong reasons to reduce the lower age limit for fingerprinting to six years. The Commission has also stated that lowering the age limit will better protect the lone children. In addition, the Finnish Immigration Service may actually take fingerprints of children aged six and above if they apply for a residence permit in Sweden. Against this background, in agreement with the majority of the referral bodies, we believe that the age limit should be six years for fingerprints. We want the government to be instructed to come back with such a bill. There is also a reservation on this.
i-6009480616fce0d8-738	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report 24. It is basically about Sweden as a state being able to know which people are staying in the country. We who live here and are ordinary, law-abiding citizens have an identity card, a driving licence or a passport that we show up if needed in different contexts. For us in Sweden it is very important to counteract a development where many people come to Sweden, stay here illegally and perhaps end up in human trafficking or crime or in other ways pose risks to our society and in some cases also to themselves. For example, this can be about very young children. However, in a European perspective, it is also very important for us who protect freedom of movement and Schengen cooperation that we have a system that does not undermine freedom of movement in Europe. It is a rather intricate balance that needs to be taken here, Madam President. On the one hand, we want freedom of movement. On the other hand, we need, for example, to be able to fight crime. In some contexts, the identity of persons will need to be requested if, for example, the police consider that the persons are not entitled to stay in Sweden. For me as a Liberal, it is extremely important to safeguard freedom of movement. We were very concerned when certain restrictions were imposed as a result of, for example, the refugee crisis. It was something we reluctantly accepted because it was necessary in a particular situation. But it is clear that the starting point is that we should have as much freedom of movement as possible. Madam President, I would like We have a growing problem with crime in Sweden. There are people who are refused asylum applications but do not return voluntarily. There are people who go underground or, for example, try to oppose the execution of their own return. There are people who stay in Sweden without ever applying for permission to be in the country. We are not talking about tourists, but about people who are here for a long time. Our society and our authorities must be more able to ask those people to identify themselves and be able to find out who they are. That is what this matter is about. The government is taking this bill a step forward. Some think that it should go further, but it is in any case a step forward in order to increase the possibility of taking fingerprints and also photographing people if you cannot establish the identity of the persons and can not determine whether they have the right to stay in Sweden. Then, as the Left Party points out in its speech, it is of course very important that these measures should not be discriminatory, with racial profiling and other things. This is also included in the committee's assessments. Madam President, I would like What is worrying is that the government is not prepared to ensure that we can identify people if they are very young. This surprises me a little, for there has been discussion of this at European level for quite a few years. The European Union's legal acts in the field of asylum, including the Eurodac Regulation, which are going through biometrics and such things, are now to be revised. There is a discussion about lowering the age limit from today's 14 years to 6 years. If a person shows up in, for example, Sweden or another EU country and is perhaps 9-10 years old and alone, there is an enormous risk that that child may be in very bad danger in that context. Everyone understands that. Then you have to try to find out who this child is. I am surprised that the government does not really want to contribute to this. This isn't in any way about being hard or mean. This is a child's perspective. It is about protecting children who are at risk of being very harmed. I would therefore like, Madam President, to support reservation number 4, the age limit for fingerprints, which is common to the Liberals, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats.
i-6009480616fce0d8-747	Madam President, I would like I have noted in the debate that there seems to be confusion, or perhaps ignorance, about the difference between internal border control, which is done when crossing borders and is obliged to present identity documents, and internal foreign control, which can take place anywhere in the country, for example on the subway. In the case of internal border control, identity documents are required to be presented. Therefore, it is also not the same breach of privacy. When you go anywhere in town, you're not obliged to prove your identity. That's why it's also a completely different intrusion. Now we have this blue-brown gang that proposes everything from DNA testing to opening bags and stuff like that. Then there's a huge difference. It is about people who do not look like me and Fredrik Malm being able to be questioned in this far-reaching way, as it is clearly stated in both the Constitution and the European Convention that you should be very careful with. I see Fredrik Malm as a liberal who has always honestly stood for the freedom of the individual from this type of intervention. I am honestly curious about what Fredrik Malm thinks about this blue-brown gang, whose government options you join, drawing up a future where some of us will be exposed to these things at any time.
i-6009480616fce0d8-750	Madam President, I would like I'm getting a little perplexed. The Liberals are not behind any of what Christina Höj Larsen talks about. It is in the reservations of other parties. It would have been more appropriate to press the replica button when the Christian Democrats or the Swedish Democrats spoke in the pulpit. We have not proposed taking any DNA tests at internal foreign controls. According to what I can see when I look through the documents, there is also no parliamentary majority for any of these proposals. What we have said on the Liberal side is that we think it is important to be able to identify very young children. I understand that the Left Party does not think it is as important, because it does not support that proposal. Here, rather, the question should be addressed to the Left Party. If you in a square in Amsterdam find a person who you consider to be eight or eleven years old, then the Left Party thinks that you should not be able to take a fingerprint on that person in order to be able to search out and find the child's family through a database, without the child being left wind by wave. That surprises me very much, I must say. A ten-year-old in Schengen can be subjected to anything we know nothing about. I think it's very important to protect children. Children are defenseless. Children are weak toward the adult world in such a situation. There is an increasing trend towards flagging up this type of problem; there are a great many people who are spinning around in the Schengen area without knowing who it is, and there is a very great risk that young people in particular will get hurt. But in the case of the youngest, the most unprotected, the weakest, the Left Party believes that it is not as important to find out who they are, so that they may be returned to safety. It's very strange.
i-6009480616fce0d8-753	Madam President, I would like I hoped for a liberal voice at a time when the right-wing reactionaries came up with proposals for extensive interference with personal integrity and freedom. But obviously I will not hear such a voice. When it comes to children, I tried to explain a difference that neither the blue-brown gang nor Fredrik Malm seems to understand. In the case of internal border control, there is an obligation to display identity documents. When you go anywhere in town, it's not like that. Fredrik Malm took an example with a child in a square in Amsterdam. There are far better ways to protect children who have wind by wave than to take their fingerprints. It is quite extensive social work that will be done. The child will be taken care of whether you take fingerprints or not if it is all alone. It is a completely world-renowned description that Fredrik Malm presents here. My question was how Fredrik Malm, as a liberal, sees the very serious development in the blue-brown bloc when describing a reality in which one can at any time make this kind of serious interference in people's freedom and freedom of residence. It cannot be answered by Fredrik Malm. There is apparently no longer a liberal voice in the Liberals.
i-6009480616fce0d8-756	Madam President, I would like If Christina Höj Larsen listened a little bit to what I said, she got answers from the speaker's chair in the main speech and she got answers in the first line. The liberals have no such demands as Christina Höj Larsen brings forward. Nor are we in favour of such a policy. Nor can I see why those requirements should be introduced here. I do not understand that criticism at all. Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen accuses me of giving a world-renowned description when it comes to the issue of very young children who can stay in the Schengen area. This, Madam President, with a world-renowned description, is very interesting. It is shared by the European Commission, the Return Investigation and the Eurodac inspectors. It is rather the case that Christina Höja Larsen's view risks destroying the whole possibility of implementing this at European level. If anyone here has a world-renowned description, it is probably the Left Party, which is not prepared to protect very vulnerable children in a very difficult situation. That surprises me, I must say. I would have expected the Left Party to support the protection of the most vulnerable in society. It has been a bit of the Left Party's hallmark, at least in the rhetoric of recent decades.
i-6009480616fce0d8-761	Madam President, I would like Under the heading 'Some identity issues in foreign law', which we are now debating, are hiding important changes in order to increase security in our country. It is about now, among other things, making changes in what we call internal foreign control so that the responsible authorities, such as the police, will have better tools to identify people who are in our country and see if they are legally staying here. This reinforces security in the country by enabling us to control more effectively persons who are suspected of being illegally or under false identity, but it also makes the return work of those who have been refused their asylum application more effective. It is an important part of migration policy that people who have protection reasons can stay in Sweden. But it also means that people who do not have protection reasons should return. The second part of the report and the government proposal is about travel documents and foreign passports. In order to curb the abuse of foreign passports, it is proposed to limit a maximum of three foreign passports over a five-year period. The proposal is another step towards better control of the situation with the use of identity documents. Madam President, I would like This dossier should also be seen in conjunction with the previous dossier, which was debated in this House, concerning increased security of identity documents. All in all, the proposals offer greater security and limit the possibilities for criminals who want to exploit the system and conceal their true identity. This is, of course, a work that unfortunately does not have an end, but where new measures need to be constantly considered in order to increase security in our country. In this case, there are a number of reservations. There are a couple of reservations that concern the question of the age at which fingerprints are to be taken, which we heard discussed here in the line shift. This applies to whether it should be from the age of 6 years, which is the proposal of the investigation, or at the age of 14, as the government proposes. I will be honest and say that I find this genuinely a very difficult issue. It is also clear from the referral that the issue is complex and would have had to be highlighted more than has been done. There are arguments that point to the best interests of the child in both options. The government lands for 14 years in the light of the current age limits in the Eurodac Regulation. It should be pointed out, as has been done here, that that regulation is now up for discussion and that there are proposals to reduce the age to 6 years. The government's assessment is also based on an assessment of which children are presumed to be illegally present in Sweden. Personally, I believe that the government should follow this issue closely when it comes to decisions at European level and, if a reduction in age becomes topical, make more comprehensive impact assessments of proposals from a child perspective. Finally, I would also like to say that the whole issue of internal foreign control is a complex one. Those who speak have different perspectives and come to different conclusions. Based on this, we also take, in normal order, and highlight what best harmonizes with the line we pursue. I am no exception in that way of dealing with a question. Nevertheless, I can see that there is a very strong commitment to what is at stake: to have a better understanding of who is in the country and whether they have the right to stay here. It also requires us as politicians to do something, which requires a balance between different interests. Landing in the conclusion that we are not going to adopt these proposals places great demands on us, as politicians, at least on us to take other measures. If we don't, the ambition will be words. This is such an important issue that for us Social Democrats it cannot stop at words. That is why we also agree that, despite the criticisms that have been made, we should proceed with the proposals with the balances that have been struck by the various perspectives. It is a fundamental duty for us to ensure that people cannot reside illegally in our country for long periods of time. It is important both for security and for the credibility of our migration policy. Madam President, I would like In so doing, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-776	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has long pursued a migration policy that combines humanity and humanity with order. This means that the right to asylum is inviolable, but it also means that the person who has been rejected should leave the country. A refusal shall be a refusal. Internal immigration control is a very difficult but important issue. Internal control of aliens is important for the effective functioning of return work. At the same time, there is a fine balance between not violating the privacy, rights and freedoms of the individual. In this respect, we believe that the government has managed to balance this well and therefore support the committee's proposals as a whole. In short, the proposal provides the Police Authority with increased possibilities to take fingerprints for identification purposes and to take care of passports or other identity documents. The Center Party believes in a migration policy that helps people on the run. In order for Sweden to be able to be a country that takes responsibility and helps people in difficult situations, it is important that no one should be able to stay illegally in the country. We know that today there are far too many illegal residents in Sweden. Whether it is because they have never made themselves known to the authorities, stayed after a residence permit has expired or withheld from an expulsion decision, this is something that needs to be countered in a better way than we do today. In addition, the security threats, terrorist threats and terrible acts of terrorism of recent years have highlighted the importance of having control over who is staying in which country. Even when it comes to the issue of cross-border crime, it is important to be able to highlight who is staying in the country. On 20 July this year, Sweden will hopefully have a new migration policy. Unfortunately, it was not the major review of migration policy that the Center Party wanted. The Center Party has therefore followed up on both a review of the rule of law and on how we can bring about a more effective and coherent return. There are two proposals that are important in order to supplement the proposal that we are going to decide on here today. Finally, Madam President, it is very interesting that many parties in here are talking more about the child perspective than ever – because now it is appropriate to talk about the child perspective. One could wish that the same parties had attached the same importance to the child perspective, for example, on the issue of family reunification.
i-6009480616fce0d8-783	Madam President, I would like We are discussing many issues both in this House and in other contexts relating to parallel society. There are good reasons for that. It is about people who are exploited and exploited in different ways in workplaces where you do not have the conditions that you should have and in other contexts. It's about people who live hidden. So there are good reasons for discussing this, because it is a major problem. Before lunch today, we debated a matter relating to the coordination number, in which control is to be strengthened. The matter we have now is about identity issues and increasing control over the system. The police and the Migration Agency are given increased opportunities to take photographs and fingerprints of internal foreigners' checks. Sweden has and must have a regulated migration policy. You should not stay illegally in Sweden. If you do, you shouldn't be here. Therefore, the authorities also need to be able to identify people, and you need to be able to find those people who do not have the right to be in Sweden. This is a proposal that leads this way. Madam President, I would like In addition to the value of being able to find people who do not have the right to reside in Sweden and to be able to access the problems that exist with parallel society, there are other important perspectives that we also have to balance with each other. It is extremely important to include the issue of discrimination when we carry out checks in this way. It is not possible to look at a person if he or she was born in Sweden and is a Swedish citizen or is born elsewhere and has a different citizenship. The police must not, and shall not, carry out internal foreigner control on the basis of appearance. There must be a grounded reason for the control to be carried out. It's extremely important. The balance must be there. We shall have controls, but they must not be discriminatory. Madam President, I would like The proposal also introduces a restriction on foreign passports. There is no such thing today, and that is a reasonable change to make. There are for ordinary passports, and that must also apply to foreign passports. With this, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-790	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 2. We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report 19 on the Government's proposal to further strengthen the reduction in employers' contributions for research and development workers. Reductions in employers' contributions for R & D companies were introduced in 2014, and by 2020 they were further strengthened. Now the government has put forward proposals for further reinforcements. Madam President, I would like The reinforcements in the present proposal include that the working time condition, i.e. the requirement of how much of the working time during the calendar month the employee must have worked with research or development in order for deductions to be made, should be at least half instead of at least three quarters of the working time, which previously applied. Furthermore, the total deduction from employers' contributions may be increased from SEK 450 000 to SEK 600 000 per month. This leads to a corresponding increase in the ceiling for the reduction of the general salary of persons involved in research and development. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2021 and apply to compensation issued after 30 June 2021. Madam President, I would like Good conditions for research and development are of great importance for Sweden to create growth in a globalised economy, and the Swedish Democrats are therefore behind the bill. These reinforcements are also important to enable companies to be given good opportunities to conduct research and development on internationally competitive terms. Since the deduction was introduced in 2014, a majority of the referral bodies have endorsed the proposal. For example, the proposal also improves the ability of Swedish companies to attract foreign experts and researchers, which the Karolinska Institutet has previously highlighted in its referral. Karolinska Institutet believes that the proposal will increase their chances of retaining qualified research personnel in Sweden, which is of great importance and importance not least at a time when we are in the midst of a serious pandemic. Madam President, I would like Investing in research and development can also contribute in the long term to increased productivity and employment in other sectors and have positive effects on the national economy. The Left Party is critical of the proposal because it believes that it risks taking resources from welfare. But we Swedish democrats believe that if you do not invest in Swedish entrepreneurship, innovation, research and development, Swedish economy and entrepreneurship, which are actually involved in funding our very welfare, will stop. However, it is obviously important that the investments are effective and have the intended effect. We would therefore have liked the government to have carried out the evaluation that was already promised in the 2014 budget proposal, when the proposal was introduced and before further reinforcements were introduced. We presented this last time reinforcements were put forward and introduced in 2020, and we are now putting it in front of us again. Since this is an important reform for companies working with research and development, we support the proposal in substance, but we think it is now time for the government to carry out an evaluation of the effects within two years and evaluate the risk and possible occurrence of abuse and cheating. Madam President, I would like Several consultation bodies, including the Swedish Financial Control Agency, Konjunkturinstitutet, LO, TCO and Growth Analysis, have pointed this out and are also asking for an evaluation of the current reduction. As I said, the government has long promised an evaluation and does so in this bill. However, this has not yet happened, and we would therefore particularly like to point out the importance of an evaluation being actually carried out now.
i-6009480616fce0d8-799	Madam President, I would like Now we stand here again and are going to make inefficient tax subsidies that do not lead to more jobs. And only the Left Party is prepared to defend our social security systems. It's bad. The part of the employer's contribution to be paid to health insurance, unemployment insurance and occupational injury insurance has been significantly reduced. Instead, what is called the general wage contribution has multiplied. It was introduced in 1995 to finance Sweden's membership of the EU but was then only 11⁄2 per cent of the salary. The share of health insurance has been more than halved since 2006. It has never been lower than today. Of course, there is a connection between it and all the insurance of people who are ill and are actually entitled to compensation. Whoever says otherwise is not honest, and honest should be. The Alliance gave away our abandoned wage space in huge tax cuts of hundreds of billions. They gave our money to those who have the most. Pensioners, unemployed and sick were even punished with higher taxes, punitive taxes which only we in the Left Party proposed to completely remove in our budget for this year. Let's empty the treasure chest again. The other parties take of the hard-earned crowns and call it bets. What we are discussing today – how to stimulate research and, later, in the next report, to support companies with few employees – must be put in a broader perspective. The Left Party also wants to do just that, but with completely different and more effective measures. The term of office began with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats voting for an increase in the penalty tax that sick, unemployed and pensioners would have to pay. The January parties then chose to reduce the tax on those with income above 60 000 instead of raising pensions substantially or making the tax fair for sick people. The temporary reduction in employers' contributions, for which we taxpayers had to cough up 30 billion, is enormous. That is more than what we put on several core areas of welfare. It is not targeted at the industries with the greatest needs, as suggested by the Left Party. Of course, you should not have to go down because of the pandemic, but it is completely unreasonable that no matter how profitable a company is, we should avoid our fees that could instead have been able to re-establish health insurance. It is an irresponsible policy. That is not the way to do those who also care if people fail. There are many stories about those who have suffered from the deterioration of health insurance. People who can't stand to get out of bed are declared healthy by Försäkringskassan. Marie-Louise-Louise, whom we met earlier this year through a report on the television mission review where she told us that she had been denied compensation for a long time, has now been right. Although she was very ill, she received no money from our, her, security system. Now she finally got redress. After several years of failure by Försäkringskassan, she could now hardly believe that it was true. I can't believe she's been able to keep fighting. I should have laid down and died a long time ago. Some do just that. We are being told about people who see no other way out than to take their own lives. If you're a politician, you have to take responsibility. So why don't we? Should the welfare country of Sweden be based on being mediated? Is that legal certainty? Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said earlier about the reduction in the social security contribution for young people that it was an expensive reform with no impact on employment. But that was then, because now she herself has given away 18 billion of our collective abandoned payspace without a single new job being created, as she herself said in 2012. Our money ends up in the pockets of employers such as McDonald's. This term of office became a very Happy Meal to the elite, I have to say. The rest of us see how people can barely afford the rent. The housing allowance for sickness pensioners is not even raised to the level of old-age pensioners – small savings in this context, which would mean an extremely great deal to the individual. But that's where you hold your wallet tight. Madam President, I would like There's a difference between people and people. How do you think when you act so recklessly with our money? Because that's exactly what it is: our money. It is not alms; it is our abandoned salary space. The Alliance's own-established fiscal council says that reducing employers' contributions for young people is an expensive and inefficient measure. The Swedish National Audit Office and all economists from right to left agree. Madam President, I would like Why do we not focus, for example, on young people who find it difficult to enter the labour market, on companies that are on their knees or on research and development in future industries that can grow? The answer is sad but simple: it is not a policy for more jobs you want but a policy that benefits the owners. The government's spring bill states that unemployment should be at a high level even after the pandemic. So they don't even believe in this themselves. Several consultation bodies also criticise the issues we have on the table today. The reduction of the social security contribution for research has not even been properly assessed, unlike all the other reductions in social security contributions implemented. Yet you go forward with an extension before you know how it beats. It is remarkable that, despite this, only the Left Party wants to reject the proposals today. The Swedish Financial Control Agency, Konjunkturinstitutet, LO, TCO, the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and others say that this risks further undermining social security systems. But the politicians don't listen. So then several hundred million more are lost that could have been spent on health insurance. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a chance to enter a new golden age. Instead of, as the rest of the gang wants, increasing the concentration of capital further, the Left Party wants to make major investments that provide jobs and prosperity. The electricity grid needs to be expanded, housing needs to be increased, railways need to be upgraded and rural roads need to operate. We will invest massively in research, not through the deterioration of social security, but with targeted initiatives that can contribute to the transformation and long-term industrial policy. For society to work, you need secure and strong employees who know that if you fall ill, there is the money you have given up at hand. And when you retire, you should be able to live well, not just survive. For a long time we in Sweden have gone from being a leader in industrial policy, jobs and welfare to barely being able to stay above the surface. Instead, we top the league in the fastest growing economic divides. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but wonder why today's leaders have gone into politics. In the past, the Social Democrats wanted to build welfare. At least some right-wing politicians had ideas for long-term entrepreneurship. Today, however, no one seems interested in showing momentum. You back off and say that's what the market can do. That's why nothing's happening. Or is the staffing business going to fix this, too? There are no jobs – call Poolia, says the Ministry of Finance and chaos privateizes Arbetsförmedlingen. The market forces are rampant, and the colossus that impoverishes welfare, making profit from our tax money, making health care more expensive and making schools worse, has been completely lost. Lazy owners of welfare companies are rewarded instead of innovative companies that can contribute to society. And now that the whole welfare system is cracking and our social security policies are empty, it has begun to be blamed on immigration. No, we're not going on that old man! It is not the immigrants who have let loose the pursuit of profit in caring. They're not the ones who drained the health insurance. Politicians in this House have done so all by themselves through their market experiments and tax subsidies. There's the big scam. The Left Party is today the main party for jobs and entrepreneurship. We understand that only through massive investment can we get the economy back on track, build prosperity strong and get this country back on its feet. Then the jobs come. Small businesses can then be entrusted with subcontracting and other tasks. With secure employees who have money in their wallets, whether they become retired or suffer from illness, the economy can be stimulated. If you don't have that much, you don't spend money on it. Then you buy new rubber boots for the children or take the family in a restaurant to celebrate their birthday. Madam President, I would like In practice, the reductions act as a weakening of the social security system. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation.
i-6009480616fce0d8-823	Madam President, I would like We are now going to deal with two reports, both of which deal with the reduction of employers' contributions. The proposals have a slightly different focus but basically aim at the same thing: to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and strengthen Swedish companies, thereby increasing employment and reducing unemployment. This can be done in many different ways. Essentially, a strong education policy and an active labour market policy are needed to strengthen the individual's job opportunities. We need offensive investments in infrastructure and in care where the staff are sufficient for the needs we have when we get sick. This has been clearly demonstrated in connection with the pandemic we are currently struggling with, and for those of us who have long pointed out the need for increased public investment and more colleagues of health professionals, it is of course a good thing that more and more people are supporting this idea. This is the basis. However, in the situation we are now in and which we share with the rest of the world, we need to use all our available tools to boost employment and reduce unemployment. It is in this context that the proposal to further strengthen the reduction of employers' contributions for people involved in research and development should be seen. The fact that we have companies in Sweden that are strong in terms of research and development is crucial for our competitiveness. But it is also an increased risk that the company takes, a risk that hopefully pays off both for the company and for society but above all a necessary risk for Swedish companies to be on a world market and develop new products and ideas. In order to stimulate increased research and development, not least in the situation before us where the economy needs to be restarted, the government is now proposing a further strengthening of the reduction in the social security contribution related to research and development. This is done in two ways to facilitate both small companies and companies with a slightly larger volume of research and development work. The first part deals with the time the employee should work with research and development to be covered. This time is now being reduced to a calendar month for the employee to have worked at least half of the working time with research and development. It is estimated that this will be able to meet more people and in many cases smaller companies. The second part deals with the increase in the maximum overall deduction for those involved in research and development in a company, which is now proposed to be increased to SEK 600 000 per month. The reservations criticise the lack of evaluation. I agree that there is a need for a proper evaluation, but I do not think there is a need for an announcement about it, but I am satisfied with the government's announcement that it should be done but that it has been too short a time. However, the absence of such an evaluation does not mean that we have no idea what type of company is using the aid. We have a good picture of how the support has been used through the statistics produced by SCB in 2018. It turns out that the assessment that many micro-enterprises would make use of the deduction was correct. In more than half of the companies using the deduction, fewer than ten employees were employed. This part can also be expected to be strengthened, not least as regards the adjustment of the proportion of working time to be linked to research and development. As I said, there should be an evaluation, and I have confidence that this will happen. But to send out the signal now that the state does not think it is important to continue its efforts in research and development would be unfortunate, to say the least, in the light of the recovery needed in the economy and in order to counter rising unemployment. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-835	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a leading research nation. Swedish research stands very strong in international comparisons. We invest large resources in research, a total of well over SEK 150 billion each year. Of this sum, the state accounts for about one third, while business, the business sector, accounts for about double. That's good. This places Sweden among the few nations that invest most in research and development. We end up in the top five of the OECD countries in the evaluations that the Swedish Research Council usually does about every two years. It is above all public funding that is particularly strong in international comparison. In fact, the business sector is investing slightly less than comparable countries, and looking a little further back in history, we are also seeing a downward trend in companies' research efforts in the 21st century. The Coronapandemia has slowed down further. Therefore, the government is taking action. In order for the universities not to be affected now during the Corona, 500 million SEK has been extra allocated to the universities via the basic grants already this year through the research policy bill, which we adopted here in the Riksdag almost exactly a month ago. It is funds that will support existing research environments at higher education institutions and in collaboration projects with the business community and strengthen up where the corporate sector has lost. But we need additional incentives to get research going on our companies, and the issue we are debating today is one such measure. Madam President, I would like Companies employing researchers have since 2014 an opportunity to deduct employers' contributions for employees working in research and development. This is about 10 percent and a ceiling that has previously been raised from 230 000 SEK to 450 000 SEK per month. We discussed this in this House about a year ago. Now we raise the ceiling further to 600 000 SEK per month. In addition, more researchers, especially or hopefully in smaller companies, will be able to be covered by the fact that research represents at least half of the working time of the researcher in question rather than as before three quarters of the working time. The aim of this reform for research-strong companies is, of course, to further strengthen Sweden as a research nation and stimulate research in the Swedish business community. Research has the nature that it is a major risk-taking issue. Far from all the research leads to final and benefit in the sense that we usually talk about, i.e. new technology and new products for companies. Research conducted by one company can also lead to continued research but also profits in another company or in the public sector. There is thus a socio-economic benefit in that companies are encouraged to venture into more research. This also means an increased labour market for researchers and, in the long run, that we can build even stronger environments at our universities. Madam President, I would like This is part of a coherent strategy, one might say, to strengthen business-related research. The research policy bill that I mentioned earlier deals with a whole battery of measures for what we call utility, that is, innovation. As some of the consultative bodies in this case point out, this is aid directed at commercial operators. I think it is important to point out that other sectors also need to be involved in support for innovation and collaboration in research. For example, the public study Innovation as a driver, which the Minister for Research received last winter by investigator Alf Karlsson, points out that innovation support at higher education institutions should benefit all researchers and not just those who are active in technology, medicine and science. Humanities within academia, like the idea-based sector and civil society, are areas that also need stimulation. I think it might be worth mentioning in this context. Madam President, I would like There are suggestions from other parties that we should evaluate the existing R & D deduction before further raising it. I agree that we need to follow up on this type of action, but, as the government says, it is so far a little too early to make a larger assessment. I do not think we should wait for important measures. We need to stimulate more research, and we need to stimulate Swedish companies to recruit more researchers and take further steps to strengthen Sweden as a leading research nation. But of course it is natural that we also follow up on the fact that the companies that take part in such an advantage also deliver – in this case, research of high quality. We can expect that, and we will follow it up. We may also need to broaden the research concept and the definition of the type of research and the type of company to be eligible for this type of benefit in the future. For the time being, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-849	Madam President, I would like I shall not prolong the debate, but I shall refer to my intervention in the previous debate for a comprehensive picture of the Left Party's view of reducing employers' contributions and draining our social security systems. Instead, the Left Party wants to upgrade health insurance and raise pensions. All experts agree that generally reducing employers' contributions does not lead to more jobs. Nor can we believe that it is enough for our small businesses to reduce an employer's contribution. They need more assignments, and then Sweden's industries and other businesses must grow. Otherwise, the economy stands still. Such a policy that would really make a difference is no one who is currently – except the Left Party – prepared to roll up the sleeves for. Hopefully we can bring more along in the future. Instead of increasing capital concentration and fattening already overcrowded stock portfolios, the Left Party wants comprehensive, general and targeted measures. The industry and the companies most in need of them will receive financial support – but not all. Neither people nor companies should have to fail in the pandemic. This requires considerable financial investment in jobs and entrepreneurship, while there are strong wage earners who can trust that if they fall ill, they will be able to take part in the money that they have given up in wages and will not be met by the cold hand because the politicians have spent money. When you retire, you should not only survive but also be able to live well. The economy has stagnated because of the policy that collects all capital in the hands of a few owners rather than investing in railways, housing and expanded electricity networks. The Left Party wants to use tax revenue responsibly and with precision. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation and therefore reject the proposal.
i-6009480616fce0d8-853	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The proposal we are now considering is part of the budget that the government has drawn up together with the cooperation parties. The proposal is about temporarily extending the reduction in employers' contributions that has applied since 2017 to traders who employ their first employee. The proposal proposes an extension to the employment of one or two persons for companies without employees and an additional person for companies with one employee. The proposal provides that, for a maximum period of 24 months, the company will only pay the old-age pension contribution, and the proposal will apply to employment contracts started before 31 December 2022. For the Social Democrats, employers' contributions are an important part of the financing of our social security systems. It is an important principle that all companies with employees should pay the contributions to ensure the financing of our security systems when we need them, for example, in the event of illness. Therefore, the measure to reduce employers' contributions is rarely the first or best method of strengthening the company's competitiveness and reducing unemployment. Moreover, there is an intrinsic value in the fact that the rules for companies are as simple and as uniform as possible. Too much exceptions and special rules create administration and ambiguities. However, this does not preclude the existence of cases where specific measures may be justified. There is also a need to strike a balance between the effectiveness of the measures and the simpler but more imprecise nature of the measures. Of course, the measure now proposed risks being more complex than a general reduction, but more accurate. In the light of the pandemic we are now in and its effects on the labour market, there is reason to take action in a number of areas to support those most affected. We know that those who are entering the labour market but have not taken hold are severely affected. We know that those in precarious employment, not infrequently younger people who have got their first job, are hit hard. As part of re-launching the economy and encouraging companies to hire, we therefore believe that it is justified to decide on the reduction proposed in the case. Having said that, I cannot help but broaden this debate somewhat. It is important that we take measures to reduce unemployment and ensure that people who can work also get a job. That is the highest priority of the Social Democraticly led government. But when we debate employers' contributions, we also talk about what finances the systems that should be in place when we cannot work for various reasons. There is also a need for more efforts and more reforms. We have introduced some reforms, such as changes in the examination of health insurance at day 180 and changes in the concept of normal work. But much more needs to be done when it comes to access to our security systems, to receive compensation when you are ill and to receive a payment that is viable. If we are to get out of this pandemic in a good way and be a society that is strongly faced with future challenges, it is important that we ensure that we have strong companies capable of developing and able to offer jobs as well as strong security systems that inspire confidence in both those who work and those who suffer from unemployment or illness. Madam President, I would like With this, I would once again like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-862	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. Being raised in a family that runs small businesses and after running small businesses for most of my life, I would say that I love small businesses and small businesses. The reason is that small business owners with their courage, commitment and drive dare to take the step of following their dream and vision of their business idea. It has always inspired me, and I love that challenge myself. The effects of the pandemic have had a major impact on small businesses, which we are all familiar with by now. The support that came out at the start of the pandemic was good. They quickly arrived and had a good focus on the companies that were affected. What we in the Swedish Democrats said at the time was that support for small businesses was forgotten. I would like to recall that the first amending budget that came in was addressed to the aviation industry, which in itself is perfectly all right and something that we support. We certainly felt that support should be given to the aviation industry. However, individual traders were not thought of until the autumn, and that says quite a lot about this government's priorities. For me and for the Swedish Democrats, the working class of modern economy is to a certain extent small businesses. When you hire a craftsman – it can be a painter or a carpenter – when you go to the masseur or when you go to a shop to buy clothes or food, it is often small businesses that provide these services or products. It is small businessmen who struggle hard and work far more hours than most do – weekends and evenings. They go in with equity and take a great risk of following their dream and vision. The effect of this courage is that they also hire when they enter into growth, as they expand and work with innovation. Then the company grows and they hire. It's a natural effect. This is something that I believe we should benefit. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Association of Small Entrepreneurs came with a report at the beginning of the year. This report showed that 8% of entrepreneurs, i.e. small enterprises generating jobs, have disappeared during the pandemic. It is 8% of small businesses that have generated jobs, small businesses that have fought hard and, in many cases, have actually gone bankrupt in the absence of support. We find this incredibly regrettable and tragic. In Sweden we have about 350 000 enterprising companies. We have a little more than 1 million companies, but if you talk about companies that actually generate jobs, they are 350 000. It is easy to see a link between municipalities that have a high proportion of entrepreneurial enterprises and unemployment, where you usually have low unemployment when you have many enterprising small businesses. In addition, small businesses generate 30% of their income to the municipality. Small companies are important for Swedish innovation, for growth, for our society and for our economy. We are now in a situation where we actually see that we have pushed a large proportion of bankruptcies ahead of us through a deferred tax. We in the Swedish Democrats have made proposals that there should be more scope for small businesses to be able to repay what they have been deferred for a longer period of time. We have proposed three years. We believe that it is necessary precisely to give companies that are currently waiting for a great deal of tax revenue an opportunity to actually build up their business in a good way. We have also made proposals to reduce employers' contributions in general and on a permanent basis. We don't like special solutions. We believe that they always lead to problems, and that also shows much of the research that has investigated this. It has been tested many times in Sweden. I note that the report states the following about the bill: a government's starting point is that tax legislation should be general and permanent. ..................................................... Let's back it up. We think that's reasonable. That is also precisely why we have tabled our proposal on employers' contributions, that they should be general. These should not be separate solutions for young people, for newcomers and for people who are far removed from the labour market. We shall certainly find resources and effective measures for this group, but employers' contributions must be general and permanent. Madam President, I would like For a small company that wants to double its size, that is, if I, as a self-employed person, are to hire a person, it is a huge step. It is an incredibly big step that often requires enormous planning. You often need to double your revenue, income, to bear the costs of an employee. The report shows that the government's impact assessment according to the proposal is that the proposal is deemed to result in a further 6 000 companies being able to receive reduced social security contributions every month compared to today. The gross public financial impact in 2021 is estimated to be minus SEK 30 million and the net public financial impact in the same year to minus SEK 20 million. In 2022 and 2023, the net effect is estimated to be minus SEK 140 million and SEK 180 million respectively. ..................................................... I would like to put this against another initiative that the government is happy to work on. Last year we were in the Labour Market Committee in Australia to see how Australia works with its labour market, mainly linked to the matching activities that have been outsourced to private actors. The reason we just went to Australia was that Australia is one of the models that is currently being used when reforming the Employment Service. What was very striking about Australia was that they do not work in subsidised employment there. The reason you don't do it is because you don't see the effect you want. It will be an expensive measure. It costs a lot of money, but it gives a small result. We see exactly the same effects here in Sweden. If you take an average of all subsidised jobs, it turns out that 8% of those who have had subsidised employment get a real job. This means that 92% do not get a real job. Then you can talk about new start jobs, for example, where you have a slightly higher frequency of unsubsidised jobs. 34% of those who have had a new job get a real job. This investment costs SEK 5 billion, and more than 6,000 get a job after the end of subsidised employment. I therefore believe that the proposed initiative is very small, and it does not even include the tax revenue that it will entail. We therefore strongly support the proposal in this report. We think it is a perfectly reasonable and excellent growth proposal to ensure that micro-enterprises, in particular, are re-initiated, to ensure that micro-enterprises are able to hire and to ensure that we have micro-enterprises that are given a chance to expand their activities. It is striking when you hear the Left Party in this debate that time and again sounds like you are living in a bygone era and as if the entrepreneurs did not generate four out of five jobs in Sweden. Small companies account for four out of five jobs. That says a lot. And we live in a service economy in Sweden today. This means that we also need to focus our efforts on the right target group so that we get the growth that we really want. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6009480616fce0d8-885	Madam President, I would like When we are at our weakest, society must be at its strongest. Our welfare will give us security through life. We pay taxes, and we all have the right to take part in the various parts of welfare such as school, health care and care, or more targeted interventions such as child benefit, housing allowance and sickness benefit. The idea is to share the risks and increase equality. It is not who you are and the thickness of your wallet that should determine access to this, but it is where you are in life and your needs to govern. The key for this to work is that we all know confidence in the system – that it delivers high quality, that we all contribute and that abuse is not accepted. Almost a year and a half ago, much of our society was rapidly shut down, and hundreds of thousands of people could no longer go to work as usual. Some were laid off, others, despite the fear of infection, continued to take the bus or commuter train as usual. Health care and care were put under enormous pressure. Many have recovered after a long period of illness, while others, unfortunately, are no longer with us. Although the pandemic has affected us all, it has hit some harder than others. During this time, the government's efforts to meet the coronapandemy have been about reducing the spread of infection, repressing pressure on health care, saving lives, saving jobs and saving welfare. It is worth reminding all of us in this House of the speed at which the crisis struck. On 31 January 2020 the first case was reported, and after a little more than a month we had a distribution in the country. On 11 March, the first death was confirmed – the same day that the World Health Organisation classified the virus outbreak as a pandemic. Countermeasures such as limiting travellers inside and outside the country and prohibiting public gatherings were introduced. The government acted quickly and the first amending budget was submitted already on 19 March 2020. Since then, 18 amending budgets have passed through the House, and hundreds of billions of dollars in support measures have been decided upon and paid out. In addition to using existing regulations, the government has introduced a series of new systems to enable companies, individuals and organisations to apply for compensation and to have them paid as quickly as possible. In addition, as early as spring 2020, a special investigator was appointed with the mandate to examine both the risk of crime and fraud in these systems and to make proposals forward. Our debate today is about the need to tighten up controls and legislation to combat corporate crime and abuse with regard not only to Corona subsidies but also to other state subsidies and support in a broader perspective. Just as I began by saying, it is self-evident to me that society best meets crises together. But the truth is also that the pandemic has brought to light shortcomings that already existed in our society and that need to be addressed. The just-in-time principle of well-being contributed to the enormous lack of protective material that meant that staff and residents did not receive the protection we should have been able to demand. We have heard terrible stories where private companies have put profit first and thus not prioritised more staff or better conditions. In the midst of a burning pandemic and at the same time the government is targeting billions of aid to companies in various industries, it has been revealed that there was a million bonus party for directors. The need for monitoring and follow-up is therefore considerable. This is particularly important in order to maintain trust in our common systems. Over the course of this year, billions of aid have been directed to people and businesses to face the crisis together. It is very important that the money is used properly and that criminals or rogues do not have a chance to grab themselves. Madam President, I would like It is a united committee which is today proposing that the government should return to Parliament with proposals for a strengthened grant crime law in order to move forward in the fight against criminals who use companies to cheat and exploit state aid in their activities. However, even before the crisis, the government has acted in the fight against welfare crime. Several studies have highlighted the issues in various aspects. The grant crime law has been tightened up. We have introduced new electronic payment systems for RUT and ROT. There is increased interaction between authorities in order to reduce errors in public records. There is a new goal for Försäkringskassan to contribute to the overall goal of reducing undue payments and increasing administrative appropriations. The Special Investigator, who has worked since May 2020 to evaluate crisis support, presented his report in December. In addition, we have a new crime in place, namely conversion aid crime. It is directly linked to the Corona aid conversion aid. Some important lessons for reducing the chances of criminals are to have good control even before payments are made, good coordination between the relevant authorities and accurate rules. Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating further enforcement in order to get to criminals using our support systems. For me, it is a big mystery why the Moderates, on the one hand, are proposing stricter laws on subsidy fraud and, on the other hand, are putting proposals on the table that are about automating payments of corona subsidies, which would mean billions of rollbacks and an increased risk of crime and misuse. Tax money for welfare and support must be used properly. The fight against fraud in the field of state aid and subsidies to businesses must be tackled widely. The state's support is very different and managed by many different actors, which is why the tools need to be adapted. We will continue to increase cooperation between authorities, we will review the possibility of better exchange of information and we will tighten laws. In our special opinion, we point out that a strengthened grant law is an important part of this work, but that we cannot in future rule out the possibility of implementing other criminal law protection for state aid to companies.
i-6009480616fce0d8-898	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The spread of covid-19 in Sweden remains extensive and serious. Much indicates that the necessary restrictions should remain in place for a longer period of time. This has affected and will continue to restrict companies in many sectors. Several companies testify that they have been waiting for more than six months on the green light from the Swedish Agency for Growth for continued support in short-term work. Some companies are also starting to lay off staff because they are no longer able to wait for emergency aid to be paid. Swedish unemployment is already among the highest in the European Union, and if processing times continue to be too long, several jobs could have been saved. The long processing times threaten the proper functioning of aid, namely the granting of aid to companies at the height of the crisis. Bureaucracies must not prevent support measures to save jobs and businesses from reaching out. For many companies, processing times, especially in the case of short-term work, have become a serious problem. This needs to be addressed urgently. At the same time, it is self-evident that deliberate cheating and criminal acts against the aid system should be vigorously combated. A number of government reports in recent years have found that the welfare system is exposed to an increasingly widespread, often organised, crime. It can therefore be assumed that there is a risk that criminals take advantage of the Corona crisis and that the aid decided to mobilise funds from the public purse. At the same time, it is clear that the increase in bureaucracy and the regulatory burden imposed by the government lead to increased unemployment and a very difficult situation for many companies. Earlier this week, Ekot reported on the widespread fraud with pandemic support. There are currently around a hundred criminal investigations into suspected cheating with financial support to go to affected companies. The ERC also states that more prosecutions are to be expected. In some cases, there are several million crowns that are suspected to have gone right into the pocket of fraudsters. The support should go to saving jobs and businesses through the crisis, not to fraudsters who spend their money on taxpayers. The Moderates' committee initiative, on which this report is based, is about extending the grant crime law so that compensation and aid paid to companies are also covered. At present, the grant law applies only to compensation to natural persons, but several of the Corona grants are directed directly at companies, i.e. to legal persons. This applies, for example, to support for short-term work and conversion aid. Madam President, I would like The Government should urgently return to the Riksdag with proposals that make it possible for companies also to be covered by the Grant Crimes Act. Such a change in the law should be implemented relatively promptly.
i-6009480616fce0d8-905	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Social Security Committee's report, which is unanimously highlighted here today, to be approved. In fact, it was not that long ago that the committee was dealing with the grant crime law. In autumn 2019 the necessary changes were made within the law, and it was tightened and expanded on several points. The penalty for serious benefit crimes was tightened. The Act was also extended to include certain grants, allowances and allowances which relate to one person but which are paid to another, i.e. dental care, labour market support and assistance payments under the Social Security Code. It was generally good changes that were made, but more could certainly have been done. The Swedish democrats wanted to see, among other things, that contributions for some time be removed from those convicted for a serious benefit crime, both in order to make it more tangible and because it is actually very reasonable. Nor is it entirely unthinkable that more sharpening and changes will have to be made in the future. We are open to this if necessary. We all know that financial crime is a growing problem in Sweden. It takes force on all sides to clearly indicate that there should be tangible consequences for those who do not comply with law and order. In the case of irregular payments and suspected welfare crime, the sums involved are enormous, but there is no precise figure. Two large committees have been set up to produce figures on this. Among other things, the Delegation for correct payments has landed at figures around 18 billion, but it is also clear that there is an error margin of 11 – 29 billion SEK annually. As the law stands today, it only concerns support for individuals. It may be important that companies are also covered by the Grant Crimes Act, especially today when we deal with large subsidies for companies affected by government corona restrictions. We have therefore supported the Moderate Committee's initiative to extend the law to state aid to companies. Madam President, I would like Corona has been and continues to be a challenge for us in many different ways. Many have been affected in one way or another. Neighbors and loved ones have been lost in the fight against the pandemic. Isolation and loneliness have led to worse feeling. We see that domestic violence has increased, and many have not been able to say a final farewell to a close relative. But we also see that economic crises have affected individuals and families as well as companies. Industries such as tourism, entertainment and restaurants have been hit extremely hard. We also see other industries that have been hit hard. Measures, aids and restrictions have been reversed every two years. Overall, this has been done in a very good way, but the brakes of bureaucratic machinery are more visible in some cases. Some measures would need to be dealt with more quickly in order not to risk falling. Many companies have flagged the long processing times of the various Corona subsidies available. Aid is delayed, which risks overturning fundamentally well-functioning enterprises. They flag that the process simply needs to be speeded up. We simply need to reduce the length of proceedings. However, this may pose a risk at the other end, as the work to speed up and reduce the time for a decision leads to less opportunities to review and control. This opens up other scenarios. The balance between being able to support serious and honest businesses and preventing and making things more difficult for criminals and scammers is not always easy. But as in so many other cases, it is usually the one who behaves who is affected when we try to tighten the screws to prevent those who cheat. We know that there is a significant risk of criminals taking advantage of the crisis during the pandemic and misappropriating funds from the public purse. The Swedish Democrats take very seriously the problem of incorrect payments and non-compliance with the welfare system, which is reported annually. It is extremely important that legitimacy and respect are high and that intensive work is done to plug and deal with cheating and fraud. When we now propose that the Government urgently amends the grant crime law in one step in order to shorten the processing times, there is therefore also a need for increased post-controls. This is extremely important. It is extremely important for us that aid should benefit businesses quickly, but it is also important that they actually end up in the right place.
i-6009480616fce0d8-920	Madam President, I would like The fact that companies receive support in the times of crisis we are in right now is incredibly important for Sweden to be able to emerge strongly from the pandemic. In recent times, we in the Center Party, together with others, have decided on a wide range of support for companies in order for them to survive this crisis. However, we should respect the fact that this is a unique situation in the world and that we do not know exactly what decisions are the best, but we are basing ourselves on the knowledge we have today. Knowledge increases with each passing day. Support for companies aims to enable companies to survive the crisis – not to remove all the difficulties. If companies do not exist when the pandemic is over, it will take incredibly long to restart Sweden, and many more people will risk becoming unemployed. It is not because we want to, as we have put in place all the restrictions that make it difficult for companies, but because there is still a very large spread of infection. The best support for companies in Sweden and the world is that we all take our responsibility and ensure that we reduce the spread of infection and to vaccinate ourselves when we get the opportunity. The most important aid to businesses is to enable them to return to activities that are sustainable for them. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the state should support companies during the crisis. Once the government has decided on restrictions on its activities, it is important that there is also financial support for it. This is important for us in the Center Party in our negotiations. We also want the aid to be paid out as quickly as possible, but it must go to the companies that are entitled to it. Most companies in Sweden are looking for the aid on the right basis, but there are also companies that do not have completely clean flour in the bag but see their chance to get tax money to their business even if they are not entitled to it. For this reason, the Government needs to review the Grant Crimes Act to cover more occasions when entrepreneurs can be reported for crimes when they apply for grants and receive them paid but obviously should not have them. It is important for the credibility of the system that this goes to the right company and that we protect our tax funds. Madam President, I would like Even though increased funds have been provided to various authorities during the year to prevent cheating, the law needs to be tightened up. We see that a change in the grant crime law is a quick way forward to get to those who deliberately cheat, but I think it is incredibly important to emphasise that it is a minority of companies who cheat. The vast majority of companies in Sweden are struggling and working to carry out a disease-proof operation to survive the pandemic and get out on the other side with a company that can develop in the new normal. I support the proposal in the report.
i-6009480616fce0d8-929	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal for an announcement that the government should urgently return to Parliament with proposals for an extended grant law. Since 2008, it has been possible to impose fines but also prison sentences for benefit offences. Both the number of suspected offences received and the number of offences committed have increased almost every year. However, the weakness of the current grant law is that it applies only to financial benefits and financial support paid to or to individuals. Together with the Moderates, we Christian Democrats have been pushing since the last parliamentary term to extend the grant crime law to support, grants and compensation paid to or credited to someone other than the individual. In 2017, the Welfare Crime Investigation concluded that the government wage guarantee is subject to fraud. The abuse of the state wage guarantee is estimated to cost approximately SEK 150 – 200 million annually. What we are doing today is telling the government to extend the grant crime law to include state aid to companies, and that is a good thing. Madam President, I would like As I have said, the Swedish Act on Grant Crime has been extended in recent times, not least thanks to the commitment of some of the parliamentary parties. The maximum sentence for serious benefit crime has been increased from four to six years. However, we Christian Democrats believe that the number of grants and authorities to be covered by the law can be increased even slightly. Försäkringskassan is, for example, an authority that sees a need for sick pay costs to be included, and then we have the government wage guarantees again. These are two examples of things that we believe should be included in the Grant Crimes Act, and the scale of penalties should of course always be reviewed. Madam President, I would like The commitment of us Christian Democrats is based on the fact that there are wrong payments from the welfare society in general and direct criminal arrangements in particular to usurp contributions. It undermines confidence in the welfare system and drains the system of resources that we should have in order to help those in greatest need of them. That is why we should ensure that the grant crime law that we have in place now can also capture the companies that seize aid to which they are not entitled.
i-6009480616fce0d8-935	Madam President, I would like In the liberal welfare society, we safeguard social security, and therefore support for the needy individuals in many different ways. Here, aid provided through direct payments of grants and allowances to individuals is of enormous importance, not to say vital importance. This is the very foundation of a modern liberal welfare state, a society that places great importance on the welfare of all but also encourages everyone to bear their fair share. During the current pandemic, necessary and much-needed support has also been developed for companies to save businesses and jobs from devastating consequences which ultimately affect us all throughout society. It's good, it's important and it's right. Liberals have been involved in developing these subsidies to ensure that they meet as properly as possible, and we have learned during the journey which sectors are most vulnerable to the effects and ravages of the pandemic. The spread of covid-19 is still widespread, and much points out, unfortunately, that the necessary restrictions still need to be maintained for a long time. It's affected all of us. And it will continue to do so and will impose restrictions on individual traders, entire industries and companies, large and small. Madam President, I would like It is a question of the extent to which individuals or companies may, through deliberately incorrect data, obtain benefits and benefits from the general and the damage and costs that it actually causes to society. It is also highly questionable whether the system of detection and prosecution of this reprehensible form of crime is effective and legally secure, and I am thinking mainly in the areas that affect individuals. In recent years, issues of abuse of welfare systems have become increasingly prominent, increasingly clear and possibly more frequent. This is disastrous. So far, the law on subsidy offences is aimed primarily at individuals, but now it is clear that we need to extend it to companies as well. Of course, grants, benefits and support should only be given to those who are entitled to them – that is obvious. All kinds of errors and abuses in welfare systems and other support systems not only threaten confidence in the system itself. It also costs society huge losses in many ways and puts innocent people under pressure and control. Society must be capable of finding and prosecuting individuals and companies who deliberately cheat and break the support systems, both to protect taxpayers' money and to protect those who are entitled and dependent on it. Finally, Madam President, there is a significant risk of criminals taking advantage of the crisis situation during the pandemic. This must be stopped. The consequences for those who exploit the systems and cheat on support must be made more tangible and clear. In order to curb deliberately cheating and criminal acts, powerful tools are also needed for those in charge of aid to find those who abuse. Strong tools are also needed for law enforcement authorities. The Act applies only to financial benefits and financial support decided by certain authorities, municipalities and unemployment funds, which are paid to or relate to individuals. That is what the decision and this debate today change. That has to change. The committee is therefore of the opinion that the grant crime law should be extended to state aid to enterprises. It's good, it's real and it's important. Liberals are behind this. I support the committee's proposal for a declaration.
i-6009480616fce0d8-943	Madam President, I would like As the last speaker of the day, I'll be quite brief so that we can go home later. The committee is united, and most of it is said. Just over a year and a half ago, we debated in this House a proposal for a stronger protection of welfare. It was about extending the grant crime law and the scope of the law. We decided then to tighten the penalties and extend the limitation period for the minor offences and that the notification obligation would cover more parts of social security systems and more actors. Now we have a committee initiative that has been brought up by the political opposition to continue this enlargement so that the business sector too will be covered by the legislation against subsidy offences. That's good. It is important that public aid, which is based on the common fund, is used properly. It is about protecting public finances and maintaining confidence in our welfare systems, which have served Sweden well for a long time. It is also a question of maintaining confidence in the business sector. The image of the constantly tax-planning, cheating, greedy entrepreneur who lives on subsidies and deductions is not good and not correct, and we need to get rid of it. In this context, of course, other measures also need to be taken. It is not reasonable for taxpayers to stand side by side and see how public funds flow through welfare companies without coming to school pupils, caretakers, patients and so on. The private welfare sector needs continued transparency. Limiting benefit crime is a good start to such work. At the moment, work is under way in the Government Office to extend the grant crime law and precisely the part concerning companies. I expect the government to take this parliamentary committee initiative with it into the work in progress. However, I would like to point out that the government should continue to be free to find the best ways to strengthen criminal law protection for state aid to companies and not explicitly commit to the grant crime law. I see that it has also been the intention of the whole committee with the initiative. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
