i-35fe201d511bb650-13	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we have a jointly funded elderly care that provides help and support when you do not manage yourself. I am also pleased that, following the initiative of the then Christian Democratic Minister for the Elderly Maria Larsson, we now have a provision in the Social Services Act for social welfare boards to work for older people to feel well-being. It signals quality of life throughout life. But how do we manage so that the business becomes that way throughout the country? Elderly care is one of the most important tasks of municipalities. The activities have undergone major changes in recent years, and although improvements have been made, the Corona Commission concluded in December that the shortcomings of care for the elderly are significant and that changes are needed, but these should be sustainable changes. For example, the Christian Democrats believe that it is extremely important that money allocated to care for the elderly should also be spent on care for the elderly. We also believe that medical skills in care for the elderly must be strengthened and working conditions improved. These elements have been at the heart of our elderly care policy for a long time, and fortunately, the Riksdag has recently strengthened elderly care through resource support to achieve just that. But how do we manage to realise the ambitions of politics? All too often we run the wrong way from the public, both from the national level and from the local level. Madam President, I would like It is trends that govern the management and control philosophy that should prevail. We've had new public management for a long time. Today, more and more people are talking about tight-loose-tight- sorry, Madam President, it was English and should instead be called tight-loose-tight in Swedish. This means that what we are proposing will bring about better working conditions and increased medical skills. It should be clear what to achieve, but how to implement it must have a lot of space in the profession to assess, not least in the light of local conditions. Then we will follow up on how it turned out: did the medical skills increase, and did they improve working conditions for the staff? If no action is required. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how we govern, and this is about one of the older initiatives made by the Alliance Government where quality registers were an important part of the governance. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that much indicates that the government has not managed to manage the positive results that had been achieved at the end of the Elders initiative in 2015. It is noted that the government – then as now a Social Democratic one – lacked a plan to manage the results. Madam President, I would like However, the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the Elders' initiative has contributed to a much-needed focus on working methods in elderly care, but that the main purpose of the Government's efforts on quality registers in elderly care has not been achieved, i.e. to bring about a systematic improvement that benefits everyone. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the introduction of quality registers in elderly care has contributed to better care and care for those who live in special housing and are registered in quality registers. Those registered receive better care for the elderly, and this does not appear to be at the expense of the elderly who are not registered. However, these positive effects create a dilemma for the state, as the use of decision support improves the activity of those registered but also contributes to unequal care and creates equivalence problems. Those who do not register lose out on improved care and care that comes with registration, because registration gives attention and a structured follow-up by the staff. The Government has responded to the Swedish National Audit Office's review report. It is said that it intends to make some of the improvements that are proposed but not all. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats lacked some and therefore wrote a follow-up motion with more proposals for measures as a result of the Swedish National Audit Office's review report. I am pleased that a majority in the committee agrees with one of our proposals, which is now being announced to the government. The committee believes that the government should produce legislative proposals to ensure that staff in the care of the elderly have access to coordinated digital systems for record keeping and documentation for the efforts a patient receives on the basis of both the Health and Social Services Act and return to the Riksdag with this. It is very gratifying that this mission is now being given to the government. This would facilitate the work of staff and avoid additional work and allow patient safety to be strengthened. We Christian Democrats further believe that the government should also commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to strengthen the work on analysis, monitoring and use of quality registers in the care of the elderly, including with the methods recommended by the National Audit Office. The National Board of Health and Welfare should therefore, we believe, be given a broader mandate by the government, which also includes how to guide municipalities and how to use these quality registers in the improvement work. Unfortunately, however, there is no majority in favour of this proposal, so I would therefore ask you to accept reservation number 3. How elderly care is to be managed is the subject of a major review through the investigation that the government has set up. We all want care for the elderly to be improved. However, if this is to become a reality, governance must be effective. Legislation may be needed, but it is probably other forms of governance that are more important – governance that allows the professions to work best on the basis of given goals. Older people should be able to feel well-being. It is a good goal to work for.
i-35fe201d511bb650-27	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the review of the government's governance of elderly care. We Social Democrats welcome the fact that in this House we are once again able to debate the elderly and the efforts that are being made and that need to be improved. As previous speakers said, I think we all want good care for the elderly, and we all see that there are shortcomings that need to be addressed. We also welcome the examination of the efforts made and made. It is important that we know that the money goes where it is supposed to go, especially when we have targeted money for elderly care. They are supposed to develop, improve and improve the quality of care for the elderly for those who need it and for the staff who work there. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the targeted older people's efforts in 2010–2014 and looked at whether there was a lasting improvement. It's been a few years since then. It was the moderate-led government that ruled at the time and also did so. The idea was to use the money for quality registers for systematic improvement in care and care for the elderly. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the initiatives have given an increased focus on working methods in elderly care, which is very good. However, the efforts have not provided sufficient support to the municipalities for the systematic improvement work in particular. Municipalities need support in how the improvement work is to be carried out. It is also important that the quality register is about the systematic and regular way in which you actually get the improvement work, and that you are careful about what data are registered there. And it is of course important that it is in accordance with the current regulations. Since the report was produced, there has been a great deal of improvement in the care of the elderly. Many things are actually good in the care of the elderly – we must not forget that. But we do know that there are shortcomings. The government does a great deal to improve care for the elderly: historical investments in welfare and targeted investments in care for the elderly. The government has also set up an investigation to produce an older care bill, which I think a lot of people welcome. We have also been reminded of shortcomings that existed and are present in the care of the elderly during the period of the pandemic. That is why we welcome the Social Democrats, the Elderly Care Lift, which provides the opportunity for permanent staff to train on paid working hours as a nurse or perhaps as a nurse or as head of the first line, which we also see needs a skills training. The government has set up an investigation into a permanent care contact in home care. And next week we will be debating a great deal again. We will debate and decide on the regulation of the profession of nurse. I think that is very welcome for a lot of people. There is also an agreement with SKR for a coherent equal care in 2021. There you should develop the close care, and you should provide good conditions for co-work. There are also efforts in terms of Vision eHealth and more. Madam President, I would like The report that we are now debating contains an announcement to the government about coordinated digital systems of record keeping and documentation that come from a motion request. We Social Democrats share the view that the transfer of information between authorities needs to be developed. A partial report from the Report on coherent information in the field of health and long-term care was just submitted. We have also noted that the Swedish National Audit Office has recommended the Government to commission the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, to develop proposals on how to develop the municipal health records system so that it will be a good support for decisions regarding the care that the individual needs. We therefore believe that there is no need for an announcement to the government. For this reason, we have a reservation, number 4, along with the Center Party and the Green Party, to which we Social Democrats are calling for approval.
i-35fe201d511bb650-39	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 3, and unlike the previous speaker, I would like to underline the announcement by the Moderates, which concerns coordinated digital systems for record keeping and documentation. It's a very important announcement. I think that everyone out there on the floor really agrees that it is necessary for this to be speeded up and facilitated for those who work but, above all, for patients. Madam President, I would like Age is the only known way to live long. So said the French poet and politician Charles-Augustin-Sainte-Beuve Sainte-Beuve. That's it. Ageing and experiencing life as year-long is something we all hope to do. If, in the autumn of age, we will be alert or need a great deal of care, we do not know today, which is perhaps in many ways lucky. However, if we need care as an elderly person, we should be confident that it is of good quality. The treatment of the most ill and fragile must never fall. We Moderates believe that the starting point of care for the elderly should be security, humanity, freedom of choice and empathy. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the review of the government's governance of elderly care. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the investment made by the Alliance Government in 2010 – 2014 in care for the elderly, which was called the Elder Bet. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the initiative has contributed to a much-needed focus on working methods in elderly care. Older people's efforts focused on quality registers in care for the elderly and on increasing their use. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the ambition, that the systematic improvement work would benefit everyone, has not really been achieved. They also note that there is much evidence that the government has not managed to manage the positive results achieved at the end of the Elderly Initiative in 2015. This is, of course, very regrettable. Madam President, I would like The elderly initiative had five focus areas: preventive working methods, good care for dementia, good care in the final stages of life, good drug treatment for the elderly and coherent care. I would like to briefly mention some of the results of the Older Bet. Fall accidents decreased by 30 per cent between 2011 and 2014. The number of health centres registered in the Swedish Demens register went from 82 to 880 in three years. Use of inappropriate medicines decreased by 10 per cent annually in 2011 – 2014. This is three of several amazing results. Madam President, I would like It is now important to improve the overall quality of care for the elderly. We Moderates therefore want to set national quality requirements, limited in number, for elderly care activities. These should reflect an overall assessment of the quality of care for the elderly. The quality must be high and the same regardless of which of the country's 290 municipalities you live in or which of the 21 regions you happen to live in. Madam President, I would like Senior alert, Svedem, BPSD and the Swedish Palliative Register – all names are quality registers. The existence of quality registers is essential for improving and developing healthcare and care. Investigator Eva Nilsson Bågenholm writes at the end of the publication Four years with a focus on the most ill elderly: In other words – if you do not know where you are, it is difficult to know which direction to go. There is no doubt that we should have quality records. Madam President, I would like I believe that focusing on the quality of care for the elderly, which is the focus of today's debate, is good and necessary in order to continue developing the same. That is why I am rather distraught and even sad when the focus of the debate is on who is the performer. That debate is dumb. When ideological duplicators rule instead of reality, the debate does not become constructive. I hope that we will spend more time in this House debating the quality of care for the elderly rather than focusing on who is the performer, because that is really needed. This was demonstrated not least by the Corona Commission's interim report in December. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has two recommendations to the Government. The first is to ensure that there is a plan for the responsible managing authority to manage the results achieved in the long term for future agreements with SKR. The second recommendation is that the Government should commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop together with SKR a proposal on how municipalities' medical records systems can be developed so that they provide adequate support for decisions on healthcare at individual level. As I said at the outset, on the last recommendation, we have made an announcement to the government. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight the specific opinion that we Moderates have submitted. We would like to remind you of the two announcements adopted earlier this year by the Riksdag, the announcement of the continuity of staff in the care of the elderly, and the announcement of knowledge requirements in the Swedish language for elderly care staff. We are now looking forward to the government coming back to Parliament on these issues. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to quote what one of our moderate seniors so wisely said about the approach we should take to year-long care and society at large. She said: I wish that society looked at the last ten years of a person's life just as we see the first ten years – with anticipation, hopes, faith in the future, commitment and consideration.
i-35fe201d511bb650-51	Madam President, I would like The elderly care is a word that has long been more or less on everyone's lips now, unfortunately not in any very positive terms. It has been about everything from high rates of infection to high mortality. It has been about staff who do not have training in basic hygiene. It has been about high staff turnover, low skill levels and difficulties in recruiting, just to name a few, and this despite previous major efforts. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed how we have worked and whether the state has contributed to a lasting improvement in care for the elderly through the so-called elderly care initiative that lasted between 2010 and 2014 and included targeted state grants totalling SEK 4.3 billion. It was an initiative that has, in substance, produced positive results. As a central part of the initiative, the government decided that a so-called quality register should be introduced in municipally funded care and care for the elderly. The Government's intention was to use the Quality Register as a basis for systematic improvement work in the business. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this initiative has focused on working methods in the care of the elderly, but the main purpose of the initiative is not to have been achieved, i.e. to achieve a systematic improvement work that benefits everyone. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the introduction of quality registers in elderly care has contributed to better care and care for those who live in special housing and who are registered in the quality register. Those who have been registered have thus been given better care for the elderly, but it has also created a dilemma as it leads to unequal care and creates equivalence problems. This may sound strange, but those who are registered are thus given better care while those who are not registered do not receive worse care – but they are also not allowed to benefit from the improved care. That is to say, not everyone benefits, which was the main objective. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that much indicates that the government has not managed to manage the positive results that had been achieved when the investment ended in 2015 and that the government lacked a plan to manage the results. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that the state's efforts have not provided sufficient support to the municipalities for the systematic improvement work and that the municipalities need clearer support for how the work is to be carried out. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the government's knowledge management to municipally funded health care needs to be developed. The report before us is an important basis that deserves to be taken very seriously. In conclusion, the Swedish Democrats share significant parts of the analyses and recommendations set out in the report. Based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the criticisms that have been made, we believe that a national action plan needs to be added, preferably in consultation with SKR. Such a national action plan needs to provide a clear direction for strengthening skills in many areas linked to care for the elderly, not least how to ensure the supply of skills. The plan also needs to contain questions about staff continuity in order to create security for the patient and to contribute to a good working environment. That is why it is an obvious element of a national action plan, which, of course, must also include a clear direction in order to strengthen all the different aspects of care for the elderly. With this, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 1, which relates precisely to the national action plan. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office also recommends the Government to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop together with SKR a proposal for how municipalities' medical records systems can be developed so that they provide adequate support for decisions on healthcare at individual level. This is a good thing, but the most important thing should be that these medical records systems are also compatible with each other so that the necessary cooperation between the regions and the municipalities is not hindered and undermines patient safety. In this respect, it must be ensured that workers in the care of the elderly have access to coordinated digital systems with regard to record keeping and other important documentation for the actions of a patient. Moreover, such a system should exist throughout the health sector, but that is another issue. All in all, Madam President, very much and very many efforts are being made at the moment. But it is also important to point out in this context that structural problems cannot always be overcome by more money. It must be worked on a broad front on these issues. Madam President, I would like The Corona Commission, the Inspection for Health and Care, experts and, of course, all of us agree that something needs to be done or perhaps rather something should have been done a long time ago. But now we're where we are, and then it's a matter of not letting go of focus without working on these issues. The investigations and reports that are coming, and which have already come, must also be taken seriously, not least in order to ensure working conditions, medical competence and, most importantly, safe and good care for the elderly. To achieve this, it is a matter of putting all prestige aside and working forward rather than fighting over who has done what, who could have done more and how the care is designed. That is exactly how I understand the debate is here today. So far, it feels very forward-looking rather than accusing. This is something that we all have to deal with.
i-35fe201d511bb650-65	Madam President, I would like It is an exciting discussion we have today, prompted by the Swedish National Audit Office having carried out an audit. The title refers to the government's management of elderly care, but in fact it is more about an evaluation of the big investment made by the alliance government in 2010–2014 with more than SEK 4 billion in special-targeted state grants to the elderly. It is interesting to see the summary and the evaluation, and one conclusion one can draw is that special government grants have their limits when it comes to controlling the way elderly care looks. Perhaps the most important thing the state can do to get good care for the elderly is to ensure that the municipalities have enough financial resources. Everyone who is a municipal politician knows that it is not primarily a question of state subsidies, but that it is a question of pursuing a sensible economic policy that makes municipalities receive large tax revenues. The second thing that is important for the state to ensure, and we will debate that later today, is the supply of skills. The Swedish National Audit Office's review also boils down to the fact that a major problem is precisely staff turnover and the lack of trained staff. Here the state has an overall responsibility, and that is perhaps more important than much of the other things we are discussing. Then it is also the responsibility of the state to ensure that the legislation is adapted to the needs of the elderly. Here is one of the reasons why there are concerns in the Swedish elderly care. They are due to the fact that the people who work in the care of the elderly have two completely different legislations to base themselves on. On the one hand it is the Social Services Act, and on the other hand it is the Health Care Act. There are two completely different laws that often do not talk to each other at all. For an action under the Health Care Act, the responsible nurse can immediately decide what to do. But if it happens to be an intervention under the Social Services Act, a needs assessment is required, and so on. The Center Party has long been pushing for this to be bridged. The state must ensure that there is legislation. Therefore, we are pleased that the Government has set up an investigation to develop legislation for the Swedish elderly care. We are convinced that it will be an important part of reducing the problems of care for the elderly. Another responsibility of the state is to ensure that there is strong supervision on the basis of the legislation. There have been significant improvements in this area in recent years with the Inspection for Health and Care. There we will also see further interesting reviews made, not least that the coronapandemin has put the Swedish elderly care in lightning and showed what benefits have been found and, above all, what shortcomings there are. There we must together ensure that the Inspection of Care and Care is given additional sharp tools to supervise the care of the Swedish elderly. Then we come to one of the most important tools, namely measuring. Armand Duplantis would never have been Sweden's or the world's greatest pole jumper if he hadn't measured. Anyone who has tried to lose weight knows that it is difficult enough, but if you did not stand on the scale it would be even harder. What the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows is that the fact that you measure and report the results has a fantastic effect on increasing the overall quality. It's not that one municipality is bad and another is good, but you're good at different things. Right there the quality registers make it possible to actually see how well you do something or how bad you are in an area. As the Swedish National Audit Office says, much more is required. It is therefore sad that we in the committee have not managed to obtain a majority to give the National Board of Health and Welfare a mandate. Madam President, I would like We have now heard both the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats speak warmly about how important quality registers are. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's requirements have not been met, namely to give a commission to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to tighten up the use of quality registers. I am sorry, Madam President. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 3, which deals with this issue. I do not intend to endorse reservation 4, but I would like to raise the issue raised in the reservation. This is something that I find difficult to understand, namely the proposal for an announcement to have a coordinated digital record keeping in the care of the elderly with both healthcare and social services. This is an issue that we in the Center Party have been pushing for many years because it is a major concern. But what is forgotten is that in 2019 the government set up an investigation that in January – February presented a report with a legislative proposal. The report has now been consulted, and the period of referral was only a few days ago. If the legislative process continues and the consultation bodies are not too critical, there will probably be a law coming into force next summer, and then it will be possible to see journal entries on those who are relevant in the care of the elderly. This applies whether it is social services or health services. But it should be the privacy of the individual, i.e. that it is I who decides whether social services, elderly care or health care should have access to my entire journal. It is a little worrying when Parliament will decide on an announcement, that the government will somehow scrap the proposal, in the middle of the legislative process, and start working on producing something new, which will possibly mean that in a number of years there will be a product in place. That is unfortunate, Madam President. I request the approval of reservation 3 to tighten up the requirements for quality registers and to submit a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare.
i-35fe201d511bb650-77	Madam President, I would like We have debated care for the elderly considerably more than before, and we will continue to do so. And that's good. The Swedish National Audit Office's report deals specifically with the ageing effort that went on between 2010 and 2014 and the state grants of 4.3 billion that were targeted. I can also tell you that 2014 – 2018 was a new investment by the then government with SEK 2 billion per year for efforts aimed at elderly care, with the support of the Left. There have been large investments in care for the elderly, but perhaps too little government funding. In any case, there has not been much notice during the last pandemic. Maybe we could have done more together. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office, Madam President, is that the ageing initiative has contributed to a much-needed focus on the working methods of elderly care, but the main purpose of quality registers has not really been achieved. The introduction of quality registers in care for the elderly has contributed to better care and care for those living in special housing and registered in the quality register. However, there is a dilemma for the state because the use of decision support improves the activities of the data subjects, but they also contribute to unequal care and create equivalence problems. I guess that could have been solved. The main obstacle, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, is the high staff turnover in elderly care, the low level of education, the lack of qualified healthcare professionals and the difficulty of finding time to analyse data together and change the business. These are structural issues that the Left Party has raised for a long time, and now all parties are highlighting these issues. We're happy about that. I think we need to get to the structural issues properly. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that the government could have done more to switch investments to the National Board of Health and Welfare. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the government's knowledge management to municipally funded health care needs to be developed. You might think so. There's a lot of cooks in the soup. There must also be a stronger bridge between Sweden's Municipalities and Regions and the state, so that the state takes on a greater responsibility and a greater role to conduct the large orchestra in elderly care. We must also remember that Sweden's Municipalities and Regions are an organisation and not an authority. There is a need for clearer governance in the use of targeted actions. Madam President, I would like Hopefully we have the pandemic behind us. The Corona Commission submitted the interim report on care for the elderly on 15 December 2020. The overall assessment was made that what happened in the care of the elderly was due to a high spread of infection, that the Swedish care of the elderly was unprepared, that the structure was not equipped for a pandemic and that employees were largely left alone to deal with the situation. In various reports they have been able to follow how both municipalities and companies left their staff by themselves. It may be added, Madam President, that it would have been a good thing to use infectious protection equipment from the first day. Now there was no national stock and unfortunately no pandemic stocks in the regions, and that did not make things any better. The Commission considers that elderly care has structural and long-known problems. They've been very well-known. It points to the need for higher staffing, increased skills and reasonable working conditions. It says that employers in the care of the elderly must improve job security and continuity of staff and significantly reduce the proportion of staff employed on an hourly basis. But when I look in the report for last year, I see that the number of hourly workers has not fallen at incredible speed. You can think about that. Medical skills in care for the elderly need to be strengthened, and minimum training requirements for different professions are needed. It's great that nurses soon get a professional title to use. We will discuss that next week – there is a lot now, Madam President. One might also find an education that is a bit same over Sweden, I think. As a general rule, nursing skills should be in place in each special accommodation 24 hours a day during every day of the week. The government has gone in with funds for this. We have also, in an unholy alliance made up of KD, M and the Left Party, managed to raise to the level needed in the care of the elderly. That's good. It must be said, Madam President, that it is extremely important that these funds do not become project funds. You know what I mean? We must not lose sight of this issue in two years' time and take away this money. I believe that the funds we give to care for the elderly, or that we see needed in care for the elderly, must remain in place for a reasonable period of time. The number of older people will increase. We also support the announcement proposed by the committee regarding coordination between record keeping and documentation. I think that we also need to continue working on the entire national record keeping system in terms of health care, social services and all other parts, and that one might even be able to follow up with a digital system that works across the country in health care. That should be a minimum requirement.
i-35fe201d511bb650-91	Madam President, I would like I take this opportunity to request a reply to Karin Rågsjö based on the announcement that is proposed to come at the decision that will come tomorrow. It is about this that the government will develop a system for coherent record keeping in healthcare and social services. This is something everyone thinks. Everyone's in on it. Several attempts have been made to find legislative options, and now it is actually the case that an investigation has been working for a year and a half under the direction of Sören Öman. He's made a proposal, a real brick of 800 pages. It has been sent for referrals for three months, and a lot of referrals have been received due to the complexity of the legislation involved. The plan is that the work will now proceed in the Government Office. It will be a legislative referral, a bill and then an entry into force next summer. This is based on access to medical and social records provided that the patient or the elderly gives their consent. In this situation, Madam President, it is strange that the Parliament suddenly throws itself in and says: No, stop and prove! Here it is necessary to make a move. Now it will be developed exactly what the investigator has produced. I wonder how the government will act on this. One way is to say, you're breaking an open door. We are moving on with the proposal that exists. I am sorry that the members of the Committee on Social Affairs are not informed about this. The other way, which would be very bad, is to follow this announcement and say: No, now it will stop the process. We have to put aside this legislative product, because now the Parliament obviously wants us to do something completely new. The latter, in fact, means that we will not have legislation in place for several years. I wonder and want to ask Karin Rågsjö: What does the majority expect the government to do on the basis of this announcement?
i-URadXDLBsg21TWKQC5xZ1N	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders W Jonsson, for the question. We are often very active in the Committee on Social Affairs when it comes to developing this type of initiative in a variety of areas. We have also crossed borders, which I actually think has been a little good. I think that when we develop this type of initiative, we are also giving the government a little push. We are raising the question. Something's going to happen. The Centre Party has also been involved in this type of committee initiative in a number of contexts. I also think that this is important in order to give some kind of pinpoint feeling that it is an important question in general how we should work with the different systems when it comes to journal keeping. I think that if you look at the committee initiative, at the report and at what has been done, it can be quite excellent. However, we are giving a direction to the government, Madam President, because we have seen a lot of investigations from the government that have not become one of them. I almost recall an initiative on addiction policy that we left last February. Here's the thing for me: These investigations can be piled up, but I want to see action. We are now trying to achieve this together with the others in committee, and I expect the government to act. It may even be a good bill, Madam President, but we have given a push in the right direction.
i-35fe201d511bb650-104	Madam President, I would like After all, the Center Party is happy to take part in ensuring that we run the government in front of us on a number of questions, but this is the one I am asking myself. In this respect, the government has appointed an investigator who has produced a thick report. It's been a referral, and there's been a lot of referrals. This is complicated legislation, and I can imagine that the Ministry of Social Affairs is now sitting with the brick of legislation that will make it possible to do just this and a number of referrals. It is clear that what could stop the process is if there are a lot of referrals who say that it is a bad proposal and that one should make a move, a new investigation and so on. But hopefully that's not the case. Hopefully, this is a good job. It is in this situation that it is so difficult for a majority of Parliament to say that the government here should indeed make a proposal that makes possible what is literally in the bill. However, Madam President, if I interpret Karin Rågsjö's right, the announcement needs to be interpreted in no other way than that the government should do what the government has done with the investigation proposal and the referral and then proceed with a legislative referral and make sure that it becomes what the investigator proposes, namely that on 1 July 2022 we have a law that allows access to both records for the patients and individuals concerned, not only in the social services but above all in the care of the elderly. What Karin Rågsjö says I interpret this: Yes, we had not really read this investigation, but we think it is important to do this. Now move on, government, and we'll have this in place for next summer! This is so important to make care for the elderly work well. But it should be made clear that this is not simple legislation. It's pretty complicated matter.
i-35fe201d511bb650-111	Madam President, I would like With that attitude, we would sit on our chairs and wait and hope that the government does wise things on all issues. It is not a bunch of legalists who have sailed out on the lake to do whatever with these proposals, which are very good. This is to give the government a push forward and nothing that will in any way shroud these good proposals from the investigation.
i-35fe201d511bb650-113	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call for reservation 1 under paragraph 1 on the national action plan, because what is reflected in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is that we need a coherent plan. It has now been 29 years since we received the Noble Reform, which in itself was a fantastic reform. It meant that multi-sick, year-long people had the opportunity to move out of long-term care and into their own homes and receive care 24 hours a day. It was just that the municipalities did not realize how much health care would be required. The need has increased over the years because so much more medical care can be provided in their own homes and does not need to be addressed in hospitals. Since then, there has been an investigation into investigations that have in themselves contained coherent action plans, but it has stopped at fine words. Then there has been and will have been fire brigade suppression when mistreatment with drugs and other things has been detected. I have said before in this speaker's chair that covid-19 has also brought something good with it that the shortcomings in the care and care of year-rich people have become so clear. Such a coherent plan is needed, which makes clear the goal that year-rich people should feel safe throughout their lives, the whole journey of life, in that they have their needs met, and that of knowledgeable staff who can provide security but who also have the ability to experience the caretaker's situation. People are different, and the person chemistry also works differently, so staff changes in care and care may be needed for the person chemistry to be right. This needs to be included as a red thread in the care plan. Then it is great that the Elderly Care Lift has now arrived, so that you can educate yourself within the framework of your service. Money will be needed for this for a number of years, not a few billion years, but continuously in the ordinary budget. In my report on permanent care contact in care for the elderly, we expected the need for education to be met by 2030. By lowering the limit at which you think you have completed the training courses to 2028, that time can be shortened a little. This work must be followed with training, with the satisfaction of the years-rich with a quality register that you have been in here before. Much has been said about the needs of the state and municipalities. I would like to say that it is just as much about the need for health care providers in individual residents to follow the figures. In the southwestern area of healthcare in Stockholm, health centres had to follow up their own drug treatment and regularly discuss the figures and compare them with others'. The use of the three largest drug groups – sleeping pills, painkillers and antibiotics – fell immediately by 10% when prescribers saw their own figures. And I am convinced that if you had regular meetings for the staff of the residents, in the care areas, to look at their own figures and discuss them in a forgiving environment, there would be clear improvements there too. These data are reported from reality. In order not to be careless with the reporting, you should have access to your own figures in an understandable and readable way and be able to compare them with those of others. We speak different languages in different parts of society. Statistics have their own care provider and so on. The quality register is very important. It is a work that needs to be prioritised and not become a long-rooted one. I want to conclude with the twentieth century being the century of the children. I would like to see the 21st century go down to history as the century of the year-rich, the century when we saw what resource the year-rich are up to the last few days and how we managed to meet their health and care needs.
i-35fe201d511bb650-123	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The Elder initiative 2010 – 2014, i.e. the period when Göran Hägglund was Minister of Health and Maria Larsson was Minister of the Elderly in the then alliance government. When I wrote the word alliance government, it almost felt like it was half an eternity ago. You can say a lot about what that government did and did not do. And perhaps, as a representative of a party that was in opposition to that government, I should like to take a critical view of what is evident from the Ancient initiative, but I would like to take this opportunity to give some praise or even a thank you to the two ministers Hägglund and Larsson. Madam President, I would like Previous speakers have addressed the importance of quality registers and how they affect and have affected work on quality in care for the elderly. Instead, I would like to spend some of the time in my speech talking about collaboration. During the period that the Elderly initiative was made, I was chairman of one of the Health Care Boards in Västra Götaland. One of my primary tasks was to work with care cooperation, as it was then called and is still called for that matter, between the municipalities and the regions. Working together is much easier said than done, but it is something that is absolutely crucial to bring together care and care, not least around the most ill elderly. The bet that was made at the time had a touch of genius. Normally, we send state aid from this House to the municipalities and regions directly, but in this effort a little has been done. One of the conditions was that municipal and regional policy would agree on how to rig collaboration and together formulate how to work with the common quality development around the target group the most ill elderly to get access to state grants. Normally, regional politicians sit in their chambers with their servants and municipal politicians in their chambers with their servants and think separately, but here we were forced to think together. It was something I experienced as positive despite the fact that it was very difficult, and it drove the development and work on the older venture forward. The problems and challenges of care for the elderly were known long before this effort was made and not least during the pandemic. Despite the fact that the municipalities spend a lot of resources on säbo and the regions huge resources on expensive inpatient care, it does not always create value for patients – or for that matter worthy care. Care co-operation can be used to define why a value is not created. We worked very seamless care, i.e. that as an elderly person you would not feel the main men's boundaries but receive a treatment and care that held together regardless of whether it was carried out by the municipality's health care, the region's health care or the care providers. Among other things, the quality registers, as mentioned earlier in the debate, were built up and the collaboration components were built up in this effort. I experience them as persistent, at least in Västra Götaland. There is thus a coordinated structure for local and regional policy to be able to jointly evaluate and look at what has been done and is being done to improve and work with development. Madam President, I would like This debate may not have been the case, but sometimes a debate can be about finding faults and shortcomings in the efforts being made. Today's government is partly reaping the benefits of the work of previous governments as well as future governments will reap the benefits of the efforts made by that government. Sometimes we are caught up in the desire to find political contradictions and therefore evaluate initiatives far too early. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office's report contributes to a better and more objective debate by allowing us to evaluate the investments in a slightly longer time perspective. I'm in favour of reservation number four.
i-35fe201d511bb650-132	Madam President, I would like We do not have enough care places, and this is due to the lack of trained staff. We have a lack of skills. We have too few X-ray nurses, too few biomedical analysts, too few basic nurses, too few specialist nurses and too few general specialists. I was able to continue for a while to properly capture the lack of competence we have in Swedish healthcare. The Government has appointed a National Council for Skills Supply, which is commendable. I have hopes that it will contribute to a better situation. But it is not certain that this will happen because we have 21 autonomous regions and the National Council cannot directly influence how it will be. One way of strengthening skills would be to develop a national skills supply strategy, and I am pleased that a majority in the committee agrees. The announcement strengthens the opportunity to gain knowledge about the situation and shape a strategy for how we will work together for a better supply of skills. Madam President, I would like We are several parties that raise the issue of administration in health care. The majority of the committee notes that administrative tasks with documentation and follow-up have led to an increasing number of people having to devote less and less time to what they are mainly trained for. The committee also notes that some administrative requirements have been reduced as a result of the covid-19 pandemic and that these experiences should be taken into account. We are thus forming a majority in the committee which believes that the government should review the issue of reducing the administration of health care. Double work, unnecessary work and other inappropriate practices must be patterned out. Madam President, I would like The majority of the committee also has a notice of suspension of registration and limitation of prescription rights. A health care licence must be a guarantee that you, as a patient, can meet a person with the right skills. A licence may be revoked to protect the patient when the licensed person is no longer able to exercise his profession in an acceptable manner. However, there are shortcomings in the current regime which have been highlighted by several parties. The background is recurrent events where patient safety was at risk. The Health Care Insurance Board examines issues such as the withdrawal of a licence or other authorisation to practise a profession within the healthcare sector and the limitation of prescription rights. The Patient Safety Act states that if there are probable grounds for withdrawal in a case under certain provisions, the licence shall be withdrawn until the issue of withdrawal has been finally investigated. However, this only applies if it is necessary to ensure patient safety or otherwise from a general point of view. A decision shall be valid for a maximum of six months and, where there are special reasons, the period of validity of the decision may be extended once for a further six months. In this context, the committee would stress the importance of ensuring both patient safety and the rule of law and safeguarding public confidence in health care. We therefore believe that the Government should investigate and review the legislation on the issue of the temporary withdrawal of a licence or other authorisation to pursue a profession in the health care sector and the suspension or limitation of the right to prescribe. Madam President, I would like Being rare in some contexts is a real advantage. Other times it's the other way around. People with a rare diagnosis or a rare state of health often tell us that the meeting with the health care system is characterised by uncertainty and lack of intervention. The same applies at the meeting with other parts of public Sweden. Yet it is not uncommon to have a rare diagnosis. There are about 7,000 diagnoses that count as rare, and an estimated 400,000 people live in Sweden with a rare diagnosis or state of health. At the same time, there is a specific treatment for only a small proportion of the diagnoses. It is therefore a difficult situation both for the health care provider who meets a person with a rare diagnosis and for the person who is affected and who is looking for care and treatment and for his/her relatives. The Health Act states that good care should be provided on equal terms to the entire population. How, then, do you do when the knowledge is limited while people are severely affected and need help, often throughout their lives? Today there are medical centres at the country's university hospital, CDS, which works with rare diagnoses and health conditions, and Ågrenska in Gothenburg has the task as a national knowledge centre. This means that skills will be built up that will be a resource for patients and healthcare professionals throughout the country. Work is also ongoing within the Swedish Municipalities and Regions to develop national knowledge support. It is truly very laudable that has happened in recent years, but it is a long way to go before people with rare diagnoses and health conditions receive good care throughout the country. We need to better ensure that the best available knowledge of rare health conditions is available throughout the care system and that knowledge support reaches all relevant staff. We want to strengthen care for people with rare diagnoses and health conditions. That is why I am in favour of reservation number 15.
i-35fe201d511bb650-149	Madam President, I would like The provision of skills is one of the most important issues in order to maintain, train and recruit staff in the welfare sector. Nearly 1.2 million worked in municipalities and regions in November 2020, of which approximately 875,000 in municipalities and 300 000 in regions, according to SCB. There are 22 legitimate occupational groups, such as nurses, midwives, dentists, psychologists and others. We have 43 000 professional doctors in Sweden. About 1,300 are trained in Sweden per year, and more than twice as many – around 2,800 – Swedes train abroad as doctors each year. Sweden's most common occupational group are nurses, who work in both municipalities and county councils. There are about 132 000 employees, 91 % of whom are women but only 9 % men. Happily, the trend may turn around, since one in four young men might consider becoming a nurse, in fact, answers that he can. I don't think so many people think that 25 percent of the young guys are willing to work as a nurse. This is important and needs to be highlighted, because we need to get both more men and more women into care. We are facing an enormous need for recruitment in the welfare sector. Many experienced people with a lot of skills will retire in the next few years. How can we take advantage of the expertise? Some things are to get more people to cope and want to work longer and that we have a good working environment. It turns out that more people choose to work after the age of 65. In 2005, 10,000 were still working after 65, and it has now increased to 51,000 people who are still working or who are coming back after their retirement. One in three employees who today are 55 believe that they will work until they are 67 years old. One of the reasons is surely that we live longer and thus stay a little longer in working life and that many have very low pensions and have to continue working for economic reasons. But it is also the new pension rules. SKR estimates that between 2019 and 2029 municipalities and county councils will have to increase the number of employees by 132 000 because we are growing, that we are getting older and that care needs therefore increase. Over the same ten-year period, the welfare sector has 340 000 retirements – you hear what a great challenge we have. However, Madam President, if more and more welfare workers were to be able and willing to work to 67 years by 2029, it would reduce retirements by 24 000, and if the share of full-time workers increases at the same rate as over the last ten years, the need will be reduced by 4 500 people a year. In the past, we had more people to recruit from than we have in the future, and the competition for staff will be fierce. Therefore, it is important and necessary to continue the full-time journey, which is good for the individual but also necessary to be able to have sufficient skills and staff in the welfare. Municipalities and regions must be attractive employers who offer a good working environment and good employment conditions, which are modern, developing and attractive to apply to and which allow work to be combined with good leisure time and leave. Many municipalities and regions are working hard on staff issues, because they are aware that the big challenge to meet the needs of the future is precisely to be able to recruit staff. But there is still much that needs to be improved and modernised, and we need to dare to welcome and make more use of the technology in healthcare and care, for example, not to replace the human encounter with robots, but to get the time enough for the personal and human contacts that we so badly need and let the technology help. We have seen many good examples of technology used today: alarm to alert if something has happened and you need help, camera that can be installed in the home so that people who sleep well do not have to be disturbed at night and technology that helps to manage their own hygiene by showering themselves or visiting a nurse or doctor who sees the wound digitally. There are many things to do and improve. Digitalisation and technology have developed very quickly in connection with the pandemic, and I believe that a great deal of it will continue to develop and remain. However, as this happens, digital and technological skills must also be increased and made available throughout the welfare sector. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that in about eight years' time there are estimated to be more than 800 000 people aged 80 or over and about 3 300 people who have reached the age of 100. We should be very grateful and happy that we have a longer and healthier life. Finally, I would like to remind you of the important efforts made for welfare: the agreement with SKR on good and close care, historical efforts on welfare, extra efforts aimed at elderly care, the Elderly care lift, further training for specialist nurses and more, but also that we have a national care competence council to keep track of recruitment in the future. All of this affects the possibilities of a good recruitment of personnel in the right direction. We have two reservations, which we naturally support, but we only ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-35fe201d511bb650-163	Madam President, I would like Today we have to debate the second major motion report of the spring on health care. I am pleased that in this report too, as in the previous one on the organisation of health care, on which we debated and decided as late as last week, we are addressing several announcements to the government on reforms and measures that need to be taken in order to make Swedish health care even better. Parliament must push forward and make proposals, because the current government lacks both proposals and initiative. Madam President, I would like In the report we are debating today, the Committee on Social Affairs is proposing three announcements. The first is particularly important because it concerns the most important issue in Swedish health care – skills provision. Should Swedish healthcare continue to be world-class, it should be able to become even better and more accessible yes then we must be able to cope with staff and competence supply. We Moderates have driven and proposed the development and implementation of a national skills supply strategy. I am pleased that the committee has taken the Moderates' line and call on the government to do exactly that. Although responsibility for the supply of skills lies first and foremost with the health authorities, a government and national leadership is also needed to meet the major challenge of human resources and skills provision. Madam President, I would like It is therefore important to work hard to attract and recruit more people to health care. It is equally important to get all the fantastic staff working in healthcare to manage and want to continue working. I and the Moderates are convinced that much time for patient meetings could be freed up by cutting red tape. Here we believe that systematic work is needed through, among other things, a review of procedures and regulations for healthcare documentation. In this context, I would also like to highlight what the Moderates and I personally have been pushing and pushing very hard, namely the need to remove obstacles to the digitisation of health care. With, among other things, a more modern patient data team and better functioning IT systems that can communicate with each other, a lot of time could be saved while patient safety and the working environment could be improved. The second announcement in this report is precisely about administration and about the need to learn from the ongoing pandemic. The pandemic has certainly increased the pressure on health care, but a positive effect of the pandemic is that many businesses and health workers testify that the administrative burden has been reduced and that new, smarter and less bureaucratic ways of working have been found. Now the government must ensure that lessons are learnt from these positive experiences. The Swedish Parliament therefore requires the Government to review how the administration of healthcare and care can be reduced. This means agreeing to another moderate proposal for a better Swedish health care. Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have well explained, the third announcement concerns the investigation and review of legislation on the issue of the temporary withdrawal of a licence as well as the right to prescribe for health professionals. Behind this announcement is a united committee, which is a good thing. It is good that we agree from the right to the left that there is a need for a review of today's legislation with a view to strengthening patient safety and ensuring public confidence in healthcare. For example, withdrawing a doctor's or a nurse's identification is a far-reaching measure that should not be done lightly. However, the threshold must not be so high that people who pose a serious risk to patient safety or public confidence can continue to work. Now is the time for a review of the legislation. Madam President, I would like These were the three important announcements of the report. I wish there were more of them, though. We Moderates have put forward many more proposals for which we have not received a majority and which are therefore included in another reservation. Of course, I support all moderate reservations, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservation 20, which concerns cancer care. It is a reservation that contains several suggestions on how Swedish cancer care can be improved. From this reservation, I would like to highlight in particular our proposal to develop and implement a national strategy for childhood cancer. Children's cancer affects entire families, so it is important to give priority to contact nurses and dependants as well as a better transition from childhood cancer care to adult care. It is a transition that too often does not work very well today. In addition, we believe that the government should review the possibilities of establishing specialist education in childhood cancer care and that palliative care with special child palliative competence needs to be quality assured. Madam President, I would like I see that my registered speaking time is running out, but I would like to conclude by highlighting another important area, namely diabetes care. In international comparisons, Swedish diabetes care stands out very well. We deliver very good health outcomes. But one problem in diabetes care, which is also a general problem in Swedish healthcare, is that healthcare is not inequality across the country, even though there are national guidelines. As a measure to develop diabetes care and reduce differences across the country and create a more equal care, we want to set up a national diabetes coordinator. The experience of the national cancer coordinator is good, and we want to build on and build on this experience. In this report, we also propose routine monitoring of blood sugar in patients with severe loss of teeth. It is one of several measures needed for earlier detection of diabetes. And early detection is important to prevent and prevent future disease and complications.
i-35fe201d511bb650-173	Madam President, I would like We often hear tributes to the healthcare professionals from here in Parliament. It is, of course, a good thing that we recognise that health professionals belong to one of the most important occupational groups of welfare and that we value it. At the same time, it is actually our actions, decisions and priorities that make a real difference. And the best way to show appreciation is because we actually manage to improve the work situation and working conditions of the hard-working health workers. Key aspects of an attractive working environment are working conditions and wage levels. The Swedish Democrats believe that strengthening the overall resources would give the country's regions much better opportunities to be attractive employers. This, in turn, would improve the capacity of the regions to provide skills. Training and career opportunities need to be clearly highlighted when focusing on health care professionals' working conditions. We know that lack of specialist expertise is a contributing factor to long waiting times, among other things. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats have proposed a national recruitment strategy to achieve specialist competence. It is, of course, gratifying that a majority in the committee is now behind an announcement that the government should develop and implement a national strategy for the provision of health care skills in order to also meet future recruitment needs and also secure long-term skills provision. The current pandemic has put a great deal of strain on health professionals. Long hours of work, high stress levels and lack of recovery have been everyday for many for a long time now. We need to learn from this. The conditions for healthcare staff working on a crisis schedule is therefore an important aspect to review and improve in the face of future crises. The most important measure to improve the working situation and working conditions of health professionals is to listen to the profession. What changes do the staff on the floor of the operations actually want to see, and how can we look at regional differences and meet the different needs and wishes that are relevant in the country? These are issues that we believe there is a need to develop further. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, which is one of the world's most equal countries, there are distorted structures and shortcomings in health care that create unequal conditions for men and women. This means that women are often treated less well and that the quality of care tends to be lower both when it comes to the treatment of and research into women-related diseases. Ignorance, preconceptions and constant questioning when women seek care for their troubles are things that we think need to be problematized and handled. There are women who choose to leave the country to seek treatment abroad because trust in Swedish healthcare is so low. This is not sustainable. We in the Swedish Democrats see the obvious need to pay attention to differences and to work to strengthen the work on women-related diseases and gain an increased status. We would therefore like to see a national action plan drawn up for the treatment of women in healthcare. We must strive for a clear goal. Swedish healthcare should offer quality care on equal terms regardless of whether the recipient is a man or a woman. That is why we also propose that the causes of unequal care should be examined. When it comes to mental illness, women – especially young women – are the hardest hit. According to statistics from the National Board of Health and Welfare, the number of women who commit suicide in Sweden is increasing, and this has gone in the same negative direction over the last decade. The reasons for this are unclear, but we believe that women's mental health and the fact that suicides are increasing among women must be taken very seriously. We therefore propose preventive and health-promoting measures in the area of women's mental health. We see not least the importance of increasing knowledge of the causes, so that preventive work can be done in a more accurate way. Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of temporary withdrawal of identification and limitation of prescription rights, we are in favour of ensuring that patient safety and legal certainty can now be further ensured with the committee's proposals. With today's legislation, it is a worrying fact that patients in healthcare can be met and treated by health professionals who are investigated for serious crimes or who have shown gross incompetence in their professional activities. The possibility of temporarily withdrawing a licence in connection with the investigation is very limited, and the time from the notification to the withdrawal decision is usually long. The committee's proposal for a notice that the government should investigate and review legislation regarding the suspension of identification and limitation of prescription rights is important. It is very good that we all agree that we need to work for change here. Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' Amendment No 18.
i-35fe201d511bb650-187	Madam President, I would like We are now debating a large number of proposals that have been submitted to the Social Affairs Committee regarding the provision of skills in health care. This is because, in the end, many of the difficulties in health care are about lack of competence in the right areas. Unfortunately, this discussion is very easy because we need to get more staff. I do not want to ignore the fact that in some areas additional skills are needed, but there are also other things in this discussion. We need to look at the development of medical devices, because there are a number of things there. If we look at this historically, we can see that it was staff savings when we started to medication ulcers and no longer operated. Modern surveillance equipment has also saved an enormous amount of staff – in a newborn ward, a nanny per child does not need to sit and monitor, but there is electronic equipment to do so. Even in terms of efficiency, it is striking that in Sweden, for example, there are some hospitals that have two operations per type of operation and room – others have three, some have four and others have five. This is not about running faster where you do five operations a day, but it is about finding more effective ways to exploit the skills. There is a lot more to do in Swedish healthcare. We also need to think about how we use the skills we have. There are extremely strong territorial boundaries in Swedish healthcare and a number of strong trade unions that are doing everything they can to assert the territorial boundaries. Here we must be able to look much more at real and not formal skills. What are the tasks that a qualified nurse is doing today that a person with less experience and less education might be able to handle tomorrow? What are the tasks that the nurse is doing today that a good assistant nurse could handle in the same way? And what are the tasks traditionally carried out today only by doctors whom specially trained nurses could handle in exactly the same way? There is much more to be done here. In a situation where we see that we will have a shortage of staff and competence in different areas, it is important that we also dare to think in new ways. Nevertheless, we have a challenge in Sweden. We have a relatively large number of doctors per 1 000 inhabitants; we are almost at the top of the OECD area. As far as nurses are concerned, we are also clearly above the average. Nevertheless, we need to ensure that we secure competence in a number of areas. Here it is good that the committee has agreed that further national coordination is needed. In the case of health care personnel, it is not just a question of getting a larger lecture hall and taking in 700 instead of 150 people, but there the responsibility for education lies largely with the health professionals. For example, there is a shortage of general medical specialists in Sweden. This is the responsibility of the medical authorities. There are some health professionals who do not have a great deal of shortage and therefore, Madam President, do not assume their responsibilities in training on the basis of the maximum capacity they actually have in their own region. This requires much more of national coordination with clear governance, which looks at the total need in Sweden for general medical specialists, for example, rather than regions just having to look at their own needs. Sweden also stands out when it comes to administration. I think it is very good that the committee has also agreed here to propose an announcement to the government that the administrative burden must be reduced. There must be no additional measures, legislation or regulations which only increase the administrative burden if something else is removed at the same time. The Alliance government in its time had an objective of simplification of the rules in order to reduce the administrative burden on private businesses. I would like us to have the same objective for the Swedish health care system and to ensure that the administrative burden is reduced. I think that the committee's proposal for an announcement, which will also be Parliament's decision, is a first step along the way. Madam President, I would like It is also about the announcement of the withdrawal of a licence. It is extremely offensive that we have licensed doctors, and perhaps certified nurses, who have been guilty of gross negligence and incompetence and who, in the course of the investigation, can nevertheless continue to be on duty and meet new patients. If a police officer is suspected of inaccuracies in the performance of his duties – in order to draw a parallel to the police – he is immediately removed from active duty. That is where we should end up in health care, too. Even more offensive, Madam President, is this when you consider that there are doctors who have committed criminal acts but who, during the time of investigation and appeal, are still serving as doctors and seeing new patients. Here it would be obvious that the person concerned should be removed from office and have an intermittent withdrawal of the ID pending a decision. Here, too, I think it is nice that a united committee is proposing an announcement so that the government makes the necessary legislative changes to deal with this. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation 7, which deals with the psychosocial management of staff. One problem we have in terms of skills provision is that we have a lot of people – not least women – in the healthcare system who are sickly registered because of shortcomings in the psychosocial working environment. Here it works well in some clinics, in some hospitals and in some regions, but there are major shortcomings in the country. I think it would have been good if we could have sent out a clear signal from Parliament here that this is something that needs to be addressed.
i-35fe201d511bb650-203	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has shown the rifts in healthcare and has shown that public health services were on their knees even before the pandemic. In 2018, Sweden had two care places per 1,000 inhabitants. This is the lowest number of care places in the EU. It's about a shortage of staff and not beds. It was just going into the Södersjukhus emergency ward to understand that something wasn't quite okay, and that was before the pandemic. Public health has had to stand back for quite some time while private care providers with a profit-making interest have flourished, Madam President. Many of Sweden's hospitals have very modern premises with well-equipped intensive care facilities. But unfortunately, the effort on the staff shines with their absence. The resource shortage for intensive care has been more than doubled in the last ten years. That was before the pandemic, and we're not going back there. Now we can also see that a number of regions are cutting back on health care. I do not think that is acceptable. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, SKR, have looked at what is needed in terms of staff. Until 2026, it would be necessary to recruit 118 000 people in order to maintain the same level of care services as today. The Left Party wants to improve the working environment for its staff. It will, of course, also be better for patients, Madam President. There is a need for increased staffing density and continuous skills development. In our budget motion that we presented, we have just proposed increased funding for regions and extra funding for regions with extensive rural areas. The state has a responsibility to train different occupational groups that can work in the health care sector. Employers have a great responsibility for the development of skills. It is important that there is a forward-looking approach to future needs within the health services of regions and municipalities. Quality development of activities is needed. We believe that the government should initiate a long-term training plan for future recruitment needs in health care with increased quality and staff density. That is exactly what the majority in committee agreed on. It was probably a co-production between the Left Party and the Moderates, among others. There is a need for a wide range of services. Investigations or applause are not enough. The staff is the gold that we must protect. We also need to review the administration. Even it has swelled very much. How is it to be balanced? It goes without saying that we should get important information. But how are we going to do that, and what kind of information are we going to take in? It needs to be reviewed. We also agree on this in committee. Madam President, I would like Cancer survival has increased in all socio-economic groups over the last 20 years. At the same time, the gap between the different groups remains and has not been affected. For example, we could save 3,000 lives if everyone received qualified care and treatment. It is the highly educated who are more likely to receive better care and better call support, as shown in various studies. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not acceptable that socio-economic factors, gender or where we live in Sweden should govern in that way. We want to see a study to analyse regional differences and socio-economic differences in waiting times, use of cancer drugs, screening activities, follow-up procedures etc. Such an investigation could eliminate the major difference in healthcare. There are also large geographical variations in terms of the medical skills available. Oncology expertise is unevenly distributed across Sweden. We have to look at that. It can't be that if I have cancer and live in a region that doesn't have that competence, I get worse care. It's not just a matter of detail. Madam President, I would like Almost every day children suffer from cancer. Survival is extremely high, and we should be grateful for that. But as for all groups of sufferers, the care of children has progressed, and more and more are surviving. As with other health care, the focus is on staff and skills provision. We need a well-thought-out power collection here. Madam President, I would like There are very many different motions in the report. Now I'm going to float into another area, namely abortions. In 1960 Swedish abortion legislation was very restrictive. Many women then went to Poland to have an abortion. Today it is exactly the opposite. Poland is one of the countries in the EU that has the most stringent abortion legislation. Since 2008, women from other countries have the right to have abortions in Sweden without special permission. However, the cost should be borne by the woman or her home country. There are currently no statistics on how many foreign women use the possibility of having an abortion in Sweden. We in the Left Party believe that the possibility of support and medical assistance should not only be reserved for women with good economics and that we should investigate how subsidised abortions for foreign women should be offered within the framework of foreign women's abortion rights. I therefore call for the approval of reservation number 30, Madam President.
i-35fe201d511bb650-217	Madam President, I would like I'm so relieved and happy today! There's a lot going on in medical care. It's written about guidelines, and houses are being built. These are technical equipment and revolutionary new treatments, Madam President. Some of this is very important, and other things are very little important. One thing has all these things in common. It is that none of this matters at all if we do not have empathetic, knowledgeable people in health care. Today we are about to make important decisions on this very issue. It is about the knowledge, competence and time to meet patients. Madam President, I would like We are about to make decisions on strategic skills provision, on an end to time-consuming over-administration and red tape. We are about to decide on the suspension of the licence, the prohibition of prescribing medicinal products or the practice of the profession when one is suspected of being directly dangerous to one's patients. I'll start with that part first. It is the end of precarious health workers. Today there is a long-standing loophole. That loophole must be closed in a wise and legally secure way so that healthcare is given maximum patient safety and so that we can each have solid trust in healthcare, the people we meet and that we will be cared for when we need help. We now call on the government to investigate and review current legislation. That makes me very happy. It's not a day too soon. What about over-administration and bureaucracy? There are also loopholes, you can say. There's a lot of them. I think it was Gorbatjov and Reagan who managed to agree quite quickly when they met in the 80's that the first rule of bureaucracy is to protect the bureaucracy. It feeds itself. The bureaucracy is like weeds. Of course we need to follow up and know what works. We need to know how patients are doing. But today I meet people in health care who say: I don't have time to take care of my patients. I don't have time to listen to them because of all these follow-ups that aren't used, all these manual inputs and all the double documentation. Sometimes it gets worse than it does. It is time to put your foot down and say: There is nothing in the hippocratic oath to collect paper that is not needed. Of course, we will carry out some administration, the one that is necessary. But even the one that is necessary can in fact be largely automated with the technical progress that has been made today. There are other professions that can probably do this better than those that are forced to do it today. It could be a care-neighborly service, some kind of care assistant 2.0, medical secretary with training just for this. Finally, we are telling the state: now you have to get to grips with this! That's it! That's it! That's it! We have to return the health care employees to the patients. It feels very good, Madam President. We didn't get it all through, we liberals. We will continue to push for stronger leadership and for increased levels of freedom in health care. We will continue to push for multilingualism to be meritorious in wage setting, for nationally quality-assured guidance, for more career paths in healthcare professions, for guaranteed right to further training and for a strengthened work for skills to be visible in the pay account. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the Liberals' reservation 4 in paragraph 2, which deals with this very point. We're not done. We have reservations, and we will push for this next year and, if necessary, the year after that and the year after that. But what we are achieving together today in the Committee on Social Affairs and in Parliament will play a role. It will play a role for health care workers, which is why it will also play a major role for patients and family members. Of course, there is no magic for better health care, but the closest we get to that magic I think is just knowledgeable, caring people who enjoy working and who get to develop there. It is people who we know are safe in their professional role and who have plenty of time for us when we really need them.
i-35fe201d511bb650-229	Madam President, I would like A while ago I read an article signed by 1 000 doctors and medical students highlighting the problem of racism in Swedish health care. Sweden has long been a country where people have sought both to work and to apply for asylum. Many of those who come here have a health education, and a great many of them are today a huge resource for Swedish health care that it could not have done without. So these thousand doctors pointed to racism affecting them in their vocational training. Many of them had even considered switching to a Swedish-sounding name so as not to be removed or that patients would not have preconceived ideas for the visit. We are discussing here today the need for skills provision and to retain the skills of those who work in Swedish healthcare. A country that does not take advantage of those who come here and want to contribute and work in Swedish health care, whether they are Svensson or Muhammed, is a country that does not take advantage of the most basic elements of skills provision. This was one of the elements I intended to highlight in the debate. The second part concerns work environment and working conditions. As has already been mentioned, we have, of course, a problem with the number of training places and the number of applicants for them. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the working environment and working conditions are some of the most important things for how many people are looking for the places and for our ability to retain trained and competent staff in the workplace. Every analysis must therefore take its starting point in the working environment and working conditions. Speaking of what has been highlighted in terms of formal competence and acquired competence, I can mention language skills, to relate to what I started with. Today it is not classified as a formal competence. It is, as I know, in very few regions that multilingualism gives an extra boost to the pay envelope. A number of years ago, I visited a health center. This has changed, so I won't name it. At least there were a number of doctors, two of whom spoke two or even three languages. According to the classic Swedish bureaucracy, the patients listed had been divided according to when they were born in the year of birth. As a result, the need for interpreters, for example, or for taking advantage at all of the dual or triple competence of these doctors was neglected. It was also something that, of course, caused frustration. It is important to develop both the Swedish health care system and the opportunity to take advantage of everyone who is part of it. This needs to get better. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-35fe201d511bb650-237	Madam President, I would like We are celebrating 100 years of democracy this year. Universal and equal voting rights were introduced in 1921, when women were both allowed to participate in the Parliamentary elections and became eligible for election to both Parliament chambers. It's an important anniversary. But freedom remains in other areas. Men's violence against women is a social problem. It has been around for a long time, and despite sharper legislation in various areas, the freedom of violence is maintained. If we leave the violent to its fate, we legitimize the violence and power of the perpetrators. That is why we must act, and there must be a real change. Today we are discussing a Government proposal on the prevention of violence in close relations. It contains many good proposals. We Christian Democrats want a little more, and I will come back to that in a moment. But let me start with the main problem. The problem is that people, usually men, take the right to control another person. They take the right to exercise power and transform the other man's life into a life of freedom. Madam President, I would like Violence takes many different forms. There are threats and constant reprisals if you do not put the newspaper properly on the table or do something else trivial that triggers the aggression. It is a threat as a weapon to exercise power and reduce another human being and threats such as weapons that lead to freedom. Violence is often brutal, monstrously brutal. The woman who was cared for in the emergency room's multi-trauma unit 17 times is one such example. The fact that she's alive today is a miracle. But her life is characterized not only by the violence when it happened, but also by the memory of the incident and the injuries that the violence caused her, injuries that have led to severe chronic illness that is at risk of shortening her life and that are reminded every day. Freedom remains a lifelong existence. It can be about harassment of different kinds, during the relationship and after the relationship. Economic violence is an example that affects many people. Even when – or if – the perpetrator is convicted, the economic violence continues. Madam President, I would like What I have just said is brutal, and it is still just a shard of the reality that is being raped. Women, sometimes men, are usually the victims of violence. Children are often involved when it happens, and they are also subjected to violence. The situation of children is very difficult. They often witness the abuse of the other parent by one parent. Yet, after a conviction, they will usually have continued contact with the parent they have repeatedly seen practicing violence and threats against their mother or father. Perhaps the child himself is also exposed to threats and violence. Is it reasonable for children to experience freedom during their upbringing, for children to carry the freedom of their lives with them? Madam President, I would like Those who are victims of violence in close relationships, I think, are tired of benevolent politicians. We make laws for protection, but sometimes there is insufficient knowledge to use the laws correctly. Other times, large breaks are revealed in the safety net that enable the perpetrators to continue to exercise violence and power, thereby limiting the freedom of those they claim to love. The Government's proposal today introduces a provision in the Social Services Act that the Social Welfare Board should work to ensure that persons who expose or have victims of violence or other abuse change their behaviour. Furthermore, the proposal introduces changes such as the introduction in the Health Care Act and the Patient Safety Act of provisions to ensure that children's needs for information, advice and support are specifically taken into account if the child's parents or any other adult with whom the child lives permanently or has subjected the child or a close relative to the child to violence or other abuse. Finally, the proposal introduces a non-disclosure clause into the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which allows social services and health care to provide information to the Police Authority, under certain conditions, concerning an individual or a close relative to the individual, in order to prevent a serious crime of violence, peace or sex against his or her loved one. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 August this year. It's welcome. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats support the proposal but want to tighten up some of them further. In particular, we believe that the rule of secrecy should also be applied to offences which, according to the scale of penalties, are less serious. The government has chosen to set the limit too high, and this means that many are not covered which should be covered by the provision. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and I are pleased that the majority of the committee is helping to tighten up the government's proposal by means of the announcement proposed to clarify the responsibility of the social committees. It is, we believe, necessary for the proposal to be as good as we and probably the government want. What we come up with must be real. With our decisions, we must ensure that they become the tools used to restore their freedom. Freedom is the consequence of crime and should affect the perpetrator. The victim of crime, the victim of crime, must regain freedom. Let us help each other so that it can be realized!
i-35fe201d511bb650-252	Madam President, I would like The proposal Prevention of violence in close relations is the subject of today's debate. You can also read the title "Prevention of violence against women" because it is the most common. Of course there is violence against women against men and also in same-sex relationships, but it is a very small part. This violence must at some point be brought to an end. This bill is part of combating violence, an important piece of the puzzle in the broad context. We must constantly move our positions forward. Violence against women has been going on for generation after generation. Some feel that it is only an imported problem, which in my opinion is a rather silly claim. Unfortunately, it is more widespread than you know or want to believe, as it occurs in all ages and social classes. Probably there is also a very large number of darkness. With today's debate and tomorrow's decision, we are making an important contribution to our toolbox to combat violence. Zerovision should be the goal, so there is still a lot to work on in this area. Madam President, I would like In order for us to understand what a big problem this is, I have with some statistics. During the years 2017 – 2020 61 women were killed, mainly by their partner or former – i.e. in a couple relationship, which is quite frightening. Brå shows that 80 percent of the women affected are familiar with the perpetrators. The corresponding figure for abused men is 45 percent. The figures speak for themselves. There is a national support phone, the Kvinnofridslinjen, which in 2020 received 47,000 calls, or 128 calls per day. It shows the magnitude of the problem. As I said, it occurs at all ages, older and young. Madam President, I would like This was a small background that shows how important today's bill is. It does not solve all the problems, but together with other measures it makes us move in the right direction. I am glad that the Socialist-led government has taken this issue so seriously. The fact that it has this as a priority issue shows, not least, that the Government is here today to take part in the debate, which makes me happy. Let me give you some examples of what has been done over the years: Women's Law was introduced in 1998 and a Sex Purchase Act in 1999. A very important law, the Consensus Act, was introduced in 2018. This is, as I said, important legislation implemented by governments under Socialist leadership. New measures are under way: on the one hand, what we are dealing with today, and on the other hand, further punitive measures which are not on our table today but which have been dealt with here today. Other examples of concrete measures are the reinforcements to the Police Authority, which resulted in 350 new employees working with violence in close relationships. The government has also increased contributions to women's shelters, which do an extremely good, important and important job. These are some examples. I do not claim to have a complete description of what has been done or what is going on. We are not going to deal with criminal measures today without preventive measures. Punishment in all honour, but without prevention, new perpetrators are constantly being added to it. What we are dealing with today is not the only preventive action. Labour market and family policy are important pieces of the puzzle that create the conditions for women to support themselves and their children. Madam President, I would like Economic repression is part of the process of controlling its partner. If you have no or very low personal income, it is difficult to leave a destructive relationship. The proposal is about proposals for amendments to four different laws: the Social Services Act, the Health Care Act, the Patient Safety Act and the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. I will briefly address what that means. The tasks of the social services shall be to ensure that persons who expose or have victims of violence to persons close to them change their behaviour. Already today, many municipalities offer support talks to adults who practice violence against relatives in order to end the practice of violence. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, 73 per cent of municipalities offer support talks to violent men with aid decisions. In support talks without aid decisions, 61% of municipalities offer it to violent men. Today's proposed amendment makes it mandatory for all municipalities to work with the issue, which is good. Madam President, I would like An important part of the bill is a change to the confidentiality legislation that gives healthcare and social services the right under certain conditions to provide information to the police with the primary objective of preventing crime. The Government also points out the need for guidelines and support for the application of the non-disclosure framework, because it is extremely important that there is no doubt about the application of the framework. Then let us not forget, as many have said, that if one has suspicions that someone is subjected to violence, one must be able to ask the question. That children should have the right to a safe and secure upbringing should be a matter of course for everyone, but unfortunately that is not the case. Children experience that a parent is subjected to violence and, at worst, is themselves subjected to violence by someone who should have protected them and given them security. An investigation is under way to develop a proposal for a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children. It will make its proposals in 2022. Linköping has a national knowledge centre called Barnafrid, which will collect knowledge about violence and other abuse of children and share the knowledge. Madam President, I would like Knowledge and a change of attitude are important. We must start with our young people and make it clear that it is not okay to practice violence against anyone. There, civil society can contribute by, among other things, the association life, where many young people are, being clear that it is not okay to practice violence. As someone said in the speaker's chair earlier, you don't start hitting when you're 30 to 40 years old. The school must also be very clear from the start of school, and during the journey forward, the school must never give up the straight and clear message: Violence is not okay! Zero tolerance to violence is important when it comes to older people, people in the middle of life and young people. I hope that we will work together for this. I would add that I welcome the involvement of all parties in the Social Committee. It's been big, to say the least. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 1 from the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Left and the Green Party.
i-35fe201d511bb650-275	Madam President, I would like Each year, about 20 people kill their own partner. It is the ultimate form of violence in close relationships. It is violence that we must do much more to prevent, punish and stop. Men's violence against women and honour-related violence is an expression of the most extreme form of female oppression. The majority of men's violence against women is committed by someone who has or has had a close relationship with the woman. Violence in close relationships is about serious crime and is a major social problem. Madam President, I would like The proposals in the bill that we are debating today have been on the table with the government since May 2018. Now, just over three years later, we are probably debating the proposals on the basis of the motto better late than never. We Moderates support the proposals in the bill, but we want to see much more and have therefore put a long series of own proposals into a follow-up motion. The Moderates are therefore not largely critical of the proposals that the government is now making to the Riksdag, but we are critical of what the government does not and has not done. This proposal is clearly inadequate. Madam President, I would like Social services play a fundamental role in a well-functioning welfare society. In some cases, the decision of social services is actually the difference between life and death. The most important mission of the social services is to protect and support the most vulnerable in society. Strengthening the safety of vulnerable children must be a top priority. Social policy reforms are needed here, where the best interests of the child must always be the most important. No exposed child and no exposed woman should be left in the lurch. Social services thus have a heavy and extremely important role to play. At the same time, it should be remembered that social services are under very heavy pressure. New social security officers are allowed to deal with difficult and heavy cases, the workload is high and a survey from Försäkringskassan, which came last autumn, shows that the highest sick leave rates related to mental illness are found in social security officers, aid assessors and curators. I think this is important that we take into account when the government and parliament now impose additional responsibilities and tasks on social services. Therefore, the many reforms proposed by the Moderates to strengthen social services, such as a national action plan, are needed. Madam President, I would like Today, the committee is proposing an announcement to the government on a proposal from us Moderates. We Moderates, and now a majority in the committee, believe that the provision proposed by the government on the social security board's responsibility for action to perpetrators of violence should be clarified. We believe, like the investigation into relapse prevention, that it needs to be explicitly stated in the legislative text that the Social Welfare Board has the responsibility to provide assistance to perpetrators of violence in order to help them stop using violence. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we think that the proposal is inadequate. We Moderates had also wanted to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to clarify the responsibility for interventions and treatments related to both healthcare and social services. This is because the distinction between the various efforts to be made by social services and health care is not always clear. And we want to give more actors, such as the Prison Service, the opportunity to initiate a coordinated individual plan, a SIP, to ensure the coordination of different interventions when necessary. We also believe that regular national studies on violence and other abuse of relatives are needed and that the government needs to take measures to ensure that there is the right competence in social services to meet the particularly difficult challenges of changing behaviours linked to honour-related violence. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the moderate reservations contained in this report, but for the benefit of time, I choose to endorse only reservation number 3, which relates to the breach of confidentiality rules. The Moderates want to ensure that there are activity-specific guidelines for the exchange of information, as the application of confidentiality legislation is often anything but simple. This reservation also contains the proposal mentioned earlier that the threshold is too high with the proposal made by the government to break the confidentiality between different authorities. Madam President, I would like Before I round off, I would like to mention NCK, the National Centre for Women's Peace. NCK works at Uppsala University and has the task of raising knowledge nationally about men's violence against women, honour-related violence and violence in same-sex relationships. I really want to recommend their digital education called the Webbkurs on Violence, which provides good and basic knowledge of violence. It teaches you to recognize signs of whether someone has been subjected to violence and how to act. Through political reforms, we can do a lot, but it is incumbent on us all to see the violence that is going on every day and to actually act. Madam President, I would like Society needs to act together and react much harder to men's violence against women. That is why more stringent penalties are needed. The Moderates want to tighten the penalties for, among other things, gross women's defamation and gross peace reduction. To stop and prevent men's violence against women requires so much more than is proposed in this bill.
i-35fe201d511bb650-289	Madam President, I would like We are now debating an extremely important subject. I really wish we hadn't done it. The fact that it will even have to be debated in Sweden in 2021 is sad, and the violence does not even seem to subside. To not physically, mentally or in any other way reduce or destroy another person's life is self-evident to me. Unfortunately, however, too many women are faced with violence. I'm well aware of that. That is why this particular debate is extremely important. What, then, can we do in the Swedish Parliament to prevent violence in close relations, Madam President? That work is based on several legs. The problem needs to be tackled from many different directions. We need early action to limit the recurrence of violence. We need to work proactively so that the first battle never happens. We need to work with those who strike, that is, the perpetrators. We also need to work with research and ensure that people who meet victims and perpetrators of violence have the right knowledge. Not least, we need to work to make victims of violence better and safer. One should have a dignified life free from violence and oppression, free from fear of separation from one's children, free from fear and a consistent thinking based on one's actions. The Swedish Democrats have several proposals for criminal measures that strengthen women's security and protect her from the perpetrator. We need to make sure we reach zero vision by all means. Violence must simply stop. It may seem difficult to achieve, but that must of course be everyone's goal. The legislative proposals that are on the table today are necessary for us to get a bit along the road, but these alone are not enough. Protecting victims of violence is nevertheless the primary concern, Madam President. We have a lot to do here. We haven't even come halfway to the target, I'd say. I have contact with many women whose everyday life is, unfortunately, a constant struggle because they fall in love with the wrong person. I certainly do not belittle the beatings, but many testify that the mental pain and stress of the life situation are more painful. It is also the invisible part of the violence. Several women tell about basically the same experiences. It is only when you choose to leave a destructive relationship that the real struggle begins. Then it is not just the fight against the perpetrator but the fight against the perpetrator and society in some sense. There are a lot of processes that you should try to row ashore on your own. Many testify that falling back is so much easier. That is quite worrying, Madam President. I hear stories about women who visit the police station and are being treated with hesitation, something like this: ..................................................... I hear about women who, in order to get away from their perpetrator, contact social services to get help with sheltered housing for themselves and their child. Then the woman is questioned; perhaps she lacks parental ability? And she's risking losing her baby. I hear about women who, together with their child, are sent to sheltered residents 50 miles away and who are convicted in court of social abuse when the perpetrator has not been able to see his child. No child should be forced to associate with a violent person, Madam President. I also hear about women who have been given protected identity, but where authorities provide information to the perpetrator. And I hear about women who live more or less in captivity. Madam President, I would like So much needs to be done. We need to strengthen the safety net that is intended to capture the most vulnerable. The Swedish Democrats propose a national competence centre that will conduct a collaboration that will act as a large gear. It should be a collaboration that brings together all the fantastic organisations, activities and authorities that work for and to help the victim of violence. You should work with research, with preventive work and really make sure to increase focus, gather everyone's knowledge, commitment and drive. This cooperation could help to ensure that the authorities speak the same language, so that what one does does does not oppose the other. Unfortunately, that is the case today. Today, one barely knows what the other is doing, and the responsibility naturally falls on several. We need to sync, gather and get everyone to work in one direction and with focus and a plan to ensure that you get support, care, conversations and help. A contact person should be directly associated with the victim of violence. It should be a person who supports and guides, helps with the process, housing, finances and in disputes, simply with the victim getting back on his feet. I believe that this is the A and O in the supportive and helpful work to achieve the target. Few are able to make that journey on their own. We are now giving social services, among other things, additional tasks. I think it is important for the government to clarify what the new mission means and how it should be implemented. I know that everyone in the committee agrees on that. It is also important for the social services to acquire competence and knowledge about the evidence-based working methods required to meet the violent person. It doesn't matter how much legislative changes we make if these can't be properly implemented or reach all the way. Although we have a variety of activities working on these issues, women are murdered and abused in Sweden. Although we have laws and approaches to this, the victims face distrust, doubt and disregard. Somewhere we're missing something important. I would like to think that a solution can be the common thread and direction of travel, Madam President. SKR also demands collaboration, not least when it comes to research and treatment methods for the subject. I am quite convinced that this can be a way of overcoming much of the problems and obstacles we are seeing today. I also know that many organisations are making fantastic contributions that are extremely valuable. We shall take care of that, and we shall ensure that they converge, Madam President. I am aware that the National Board of Health and Welfare is working to some extent on what we are asking for, but I believe that there is a need for pure activity, which may indeed be under the National Board of Health and Welfare. The collaboration I'm talking about will also lead to working to help the people who are aware of their behaviour, the perpetrators who seek and want support and help to overcome their situation. Far from everyone thinks it's macho to fight. Not infrequently have they experienced it themselves in their childhood. Breaking patterns early is important in preventive work. We will simply work nationally with all parts. It is about research, proactive work and meeting victims of violence, perpetrators and children. We will support the social services and people involved, so that we have a comprehensive and professional approach across the country. No one should have to die because the help or skills in dealing with a victim of violence are lacking. Sweden should be able to reach the goal in this important work. I apologise for having oversold my speaking time, but this is so extremely important. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of our reservation, No 8, which concerns precisely a national centre of competence. But, of course, I support all our reservations in this report.
i-35fe201d511bb650-310	Madam President, I would like The prevention of violence in close relationships is primarily, as many have said, about men's violence against women. This is not a new problem. It's been around for a long time. It's not just in Sweden, it's all over the world. It is now time for this to stop, Madam President. I am pleased to see the commitment that now exists in Sweden and not least in the Swedish Parliament. We are running the government ahead of us to make sure to acquire additional tools in this work. This is a very big social problem. Every two to three weeks, a woman is killed. Each year 6,500 women and children are allowed to live in sheltered housing. And that is just the tip of an iceberg, Madam President. Before I go further and comment on the current proposals, I would like to say that it must be clear that the most important thing here is that it is about criminal acts. It is about the need for law enforcement and more resources for the police, additional resources to investigate, to prosecute, to condemn and to impose penalties. It's nothing but criminal acts. Nevertheless, it is also important that we consider what we can do for prevention purposes, what we can do to ensure that the abuse or murder does not occur. There are three proposals from the government that are positive and good. The Center Party is behind them. The first proposal is that the social services in Sweden's municipalities, not only in many, but in all, must start to focus on what can be done to support and help those who expose their loved ones to violence. Unfortunately, research does not provide substantial support for the fact that these are very effective methods. Nevertheless, this is something that needs to be done. It is therefore a good proposal that the government has put forward. However, I have a concern about what the majority of the committee is stuck in, namely to propose a tightening up and clarification of the social services' responsibilities in this area. It may seem harmless, but it does in fact mean that we emphasise the responsibility of social services to help and support those who expose others to crime. At worst, it can be interpreted as meaning that this is considered more important by the legislator than to stand up to the victims of these criminal acts. It is, Madam President, that makes it clear that it is important for social services to support and try to prevent further crimes from being committed, but that priority is to help those who are vulnerable. I and the Center Party also believe that it is right to clarify the legislation so that not only children living in a family where there is mental illness or addiction are given information and support, but also children living in a family where there is a tendency to violence. That's a wise change. It is also a good change, Madam President, to lower the threshold of confidentiality in health and social services, so that the possibility for staff to report in a situation where crime can be prevented is increased. That's three sensible changes. I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I only ask for the approval of reservation number 1.
i-35fe201d511bb650-319	Madam President, I would like May I interpret Mr Jonsson so that we can adopt a change of law but preferably not talk about it? About that, I see the honourable Member's speech – we are happy to make a change in law, but it should be a little bit unclear, so that we do not work on it. Isn't that what the honourable Member's saying?
i-35fe201d511bb650-320	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, because this is precisely what reservation number 1 is about. The way in which legislation is drawn up is of great importance. The legislative change that we now have to consider is about not only some municipalities and some social services in Sweden, but everyone should be committed to trying to work preventively and ensuring that men – this is especially the case for men – who expose women to violence ends with it. If you look at the scientific material that exists, you can see that there are a number of things that you can do and that there are treatment methods but that they are not very clear in their results. It is extremely important how legislation is designed, so that it becomes very clear that the legislator does not make the priority that preventive work to prevent men from exposing women to further violence is more important than spending resources on those who are victims of crime. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Center Party is concerned, it should be clear in the legislation and in the application that it is precisely the victims of violence who are priority number one. I therefore call for the proposal to which the majority of the committee is attached to be rejected. One can misinterpret legislation in that one thing would be more important than the other in balancing these two different parts that social services have to work with – hence my claim.
i-35fe201d511bb650-322	Madam President, I would like I have to say that this is a strange reasoning. However, I fully understand Mr Jonsson's reasoning on the balance between the efforts of those deprived of freedom and those given the freedom of violence and power against another person. It is about the difference between the efforts of victims of violence and those of violence. That discussion is very difficult. I am one of those who at first found it difficult to support men's shelters. I thought it moved the focus away from what was important, namely support for women who were victims of violence. But I've realized that we need to work on both things at the same time. That doesn't mean moving focus away from one. I cannot imagine the government wanting to reduce the other efforts by presenting this bill. How Mr Jonsson can even think that what the majority of the committee proposes would reduce the efforts for the victims of violence is very strange. There is not an ounce of text or proposal about it. This is the first priority for each municipality. It's a bit embarrassing that you should have extra money when you're working on women's peace issues. It should be a matter of course for every municipality to work to ensure that women or men and children are not subjected to violence and do not suffer the freedom that arises from forcing people to violence. The proposal is clear, I think. The law that we now want to adopt should be clear, so that social services know what it has to work with and that it becomes a law that is being used. I am embarrassed that the honourable Member is claiming something different from what the majority of the committee thinks. I would like the honourable Member to back up something, because it would look better. That would be something more decent than saying that we want something that we do not propose at all.
i-35fe201d511bb650-326	Madam President, I would like The way in which legislation is formulated is important. If you as legislator choose to specify very clearly and exactly what is to be done, it weighs heavier than if you have a formulation that is not as clear. The reason why the Government proposal does not contain the specific wording proposed by the majority of the committee is that the balance must be clear. The most serious thing is that we must ensure that social services have the resources to support and help those women and children who are victims of violence in close relationships. Then it is also important, but not as important, that perpetrators after serving a sentence can receive support from the social services to undergo any of the treatment programs that exist to reduce the risk of this happening again. It must not be the case that we, as legislators, are in any way making laws that do not make this order of priority clear. For the Center Party, it is self-evident to support the victims, the women and children who are victims of violence. That is what is most important, Madam President, and I therefore call for reservation number 1.
i-35fe201d511bb650-329	Madam President, I would like For once, men's violence against women and violence in close relations has received real political attention, at least right now. It took the lives of many hundreds of women before the issue would be as high on the political agenda as it is today. This time eight women were murdered within a month, one of them on the street in broad daylight. Madam President, I would like The brutal killings are the ultimate and absolutely grossest consequence of the violence. But every day, minute by minute, year in and year out, women throughout our elongated country are subjected to physical and mental abuse. Women are terrorized, persecuted and deprived of their entire freedom and ultimately their entire identity. There are women and children who live on the run hidden away from a man who refuses to stop beating, without society stopping. Every day, women are subjected to sexual harassment and abuse. We are exposed at our workplaces, at school, in public spaces and in our own homes. Men's violence against women and violence in close relations, Madam President, is a huge structural social problem that permeates our entire system. It is a huge political failure which now requires strong action. The other week, in the Left Party, we tabled a proposal for a committee initiative. We want the government to urgently deploy the resources necessary for social services to be able to offer the support to which women are entitled. We want the government to secure and strengthen the activities of non-profit women's shelters, set up emergency services across the country and ensure that authorities have the right knowledge of men's violence against women. We also want the most vulnerable and invisible groups of victims of violence, such as the elderly and people with disabilities or abuse, to be helped. The committee initiative is also a way for us to show the government that we will not let go of the issue. We don't want to wait for any more murders. We want policy to act decisively here and now. The initiative will come back after the summer. We had a meeting on this in committee today, and I am very positive. I believe that we can come to a strong conclusion on this issue, and I am very pleased about that. Madam President, I would like What we are about to decide today contains proposals for changes that, according to the government, can prevent men's violence against women. We obviously think that the approach is both good and important, but we are also a little concerned about the consequences of the proposals. We have chosen to support the proposals, but at the same time we want to highlight the concerns we have, as we have done in a specific opinion. We must understand that men's position over women permeates our entire social system. In practice, this means that even a law whose aim is to provide protection can actually have the opposite effect. We must always be aware of and relate to the mechanisms of violence. The government wants the Social Services Act to make it clear that the authority will offer support and assistance to the violent man. It may sound a matter of course, something very reasonable, as it is, of course. But we believe that it is a criminal act when you beat, harass, persecute and terrorize a woman. That's why it's supposed to be handled by the police and the judiciary. That is where care and treatment should primarily take place. It is an important indication of how society views the crimes committed. Even today, social services can offer support to violent men, but in most cases only the most motivated take it to heart. We also know that the quality of assistance and support available can vary. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the support offered should be based on research and proven experience. We also see that there is a risk that support for the man is given priority over support for the victim of violence. After all, resources in social services are scarce. Our firm view is that support for an perpetrator must never be at the expense of security, protection and support for the victim of violence. Through its second proposal, the Government wants the Public Access and Confidentiality Act to enable social services and health care to provide information to the police under certain conditions in order for one person not to expose another to violent, peaceful or sexual crimes. For us, it is crucial that the victim of violence has confidence in and trust in both social services and health care. Safe access to support can often be crucial for the victim of violence to receive the help and support he is entitled to. We are concerned that the consequence could be that confidence in, for example, social services is being eroded and that the vulnerable do not seek help if this breach of confidentiality is being incorrectly used. It would be directly lethal. The most important thing is primarily to support victims of violence to report to the police themselves and always to assist women and children with protection against violence. It requires that we have a judicial system that prioritises crimes in close relationships and supports women in the legal process, where perpetrators are convicted. This is where the major obstacles to reporting exist today. We know that you are more or less without rights. In order for the victims of violence to have the courage to report, they must receive professional treatment and support in meeting the authorities and know that they are guaranteed stable protection. For this we need a strong social service that has enough resources and knowledge to provide both good treatment and the right support. It also requires that the non-profit women's and women's shelters be given every opportunity to support the victim of violence. This is what our committee initiative is about. Madam President, I would like Of course, the fact that the government is trying to find ways to prevent men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is fundamentally very positive. However, as I said at the outset, much greater changes than this are needed to break the structures behind the violence. On the way there, we must never miss that the protection of those who are exposed must always go first. We must never miss that men's violence against women, violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and oppression are criminal acts. We must understand that the system itself actually reinforces violence. At this very moment, the window is open for the government to make the necessary changes to achieve a zero vision of men's violence against women and to provide the vulnerable with all the support they need. It is now that there is an opportunity to really clean up if we are to have a society that does not betray women and children. Today we have been informed that the government will present a powerful package against men's violence against women and violence in close relationships. We are really looking forward to that. We expect the government to take the opportunity to take the necessary steps. Not one more woman has to mean something in real action. We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 14.
i-35fe201d511bb650-348	Madam President, I would like Throughout my life I have felt enormous pride in the fact that Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. Thanks to previous generations, I can feel that I have lived a free life. But we can't live on old records. We have a huge responsibility to address the ongoing pandemic that affects many women and children who are victims of men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. Instead, the home that's supposed to be a safe place has turned into a crime scene. Hundreds of women have been murdered in the 21st century, despite repeated warning signals. Many children have lost a mother. Society has failed by closing its eyes time and again. That's not good enough. The government must be given an insight into the crisis and begin to act with action. It's time to put the victims and their loved ones at the centre. They shall be entitled to support. At the same time, we must invest in long-term work involving both police and preventive measures. It takes more severe punishment. This is serious crime. The perpetrators of violence should be judged, and the life space of the perpetrator should be limited. The victim of violence will receive the total support of society and access to freedom. It should not be like today when violent women and children are forced to live both hidden and forgotten. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most important group to prioritise is the young girls who suffer from violence in the first relationship. A v girls between 16 and 24 years of age, 23 percent say that they have been subjected to violence in a close relationship. Many times it is about the first relationship, and in it the girls are subjected to violence. This will leave a trail for the rest of your life. Young guys who start beating must be stopped early and powerfully. Men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression often begins with guys' violence against girls. According to Ungländer.se, which is the national support and knowledge platform to combat violence in young people's relationships, the majority of those who contact them under the age of 18 are. That means it's about children. The fact that children, usually girls, are subjected to violence in their partner relationship is unacceptable. Now we politicians must act. Here it is important to include children and young people who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression, where an unlawful relationship can lead to their being removed from the country, married away or subjected to serious violence by the family. They are completely unprotected and afraid to tell that they are subjected to violence in a relationship that family and family do not allow them to have. It is incomprehensible that the government has invisible the young girls and the violence they are subjected to by guys in their partner relationships. The government must take measures to, for example, get long-term support and become a working platform. The government must act urgently, and the Liberals are happy to assist. We want to take responsibility. It is of the utmost importance that issues of guys' violence against girls and violence in young people's partner relationships are now fully integrated into the implementation of the legislative changes contained in the bill. Another disadvantaged area is violence against older people. The fact that the perpetrator responsible for the abuse in these cases can be a partner but also adult children or carers increases the complexity. It is about physical violence, sexual violence, economic violence, violations and neglect. Knowledge of the elderly who are victims of violence is neglected. Some researchers believe that this is a consequence of the fact that the issue falls between two areas of research and knowledge. Older women have rarely been the focus of research on partner violence against women, and partner violence has rarely been the focus of research on violence against the elderly. In 2014, the government adopted a national strategy on violence against older people in health care, but the important role of the police and the judiciary in this context was excluded. The vulnerability of the elderly to violence in close relationships must also be addressed in the preventive work of social services. For the Liberals, it is important that the solutions are concrete and effective and that they are followed up. Knowledge of the discovery of violence against everyone, regardless of age, must also be recognised by all occupational groups facing violence in their daily lives. Questions need to be asked on a routine basis. This is important in order for the confidentiality-breaking rule proposed in the bill, which we support, to have an impact in practice. Liberals welcome the proposal that the Social Welfare Board should work to ensure that persons who expose or have victims of violence or other abuse are responsible and change their behaviour. In the case of actions involving perpetrators of violence, it is important that the actions are also targeted at persons under the age of 18. There are two reasons for this: firstly, the obvious need to combat violence in all close relationships of all ages and, secondly, the fact that a destructive pattern of violence is often established early on. However, in order to prevent in the long term, efforts must start already in preschool, and this must be given greater priority. Schools and preschools should inform and work actively with children and young people on what violence is, counteract stereotyped gender roles and address what children should do if they or someone close to them are exposed. Children's exposure to violence becomes visible when professionals actively ask about violence. The children's perspective in the Government's proposal needs to be further clarified. Anyone who is going to talk to a child needs to have knowledge of how to make children feel trust and create the conditions for children to actually be able and dare to speak. There is a lack of a child impact assessment, and yet the government says that the best interests of the child have been taken into account in the proposals it has made. That's not good enough. Victims have the right to a more thorough job. Now we've introduced a child peace crime. This is an important step, but the government must urgently review the situation regarding custody, housing and social relations of all the children who are forced to live or have contact with a violent guardian. This is an important step in prevention. Of course, we Liberals support all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation 6.
i-35fe201d511bb650-365	Madam President, I would like Today, at Parliament's table, there is a bill on how society can prevent violence in close relationships or men's violence against women. We are all too often reminded of the brutal terror that is the daily life of many vulnerable children and women. A number of weeks ago it went from news in the newspaper to top the national news when five women were murdered in the space of a week by their loved ones or by their husbands. Men's violence against women is not a new problem in Sweden. Unfortunately, despite efforts and more stringent penalties, society's efforts seem all too often to be too late. Not that I want to minimize the importance of harsh and severe punishment for those who abuse or kill those who have said they love, but no punishment in the world can repair a single life. We need to prevent this from happening and punish those who practice violence. It is therefore very much to be hoped that the Government will now present a proposal that puts the focus and responsibility on preventing violence. Through the Social Services Act, the municipality's social welfare committee is ultimately tasked with working to ensure that people who expose or have victims of violence or other abuse change their behaviour. That is an important proposal. Madam President, I would like A child who gets beat up learns how to fight. This is how the author and child rights fighter Dorothy Low Holte begins their poem or their thoughtful words about children and child rearing. The list ends with: a child who experiences security learns to trust and a child who is liked and hugged learns to feel love in the world. ..................................................... Growing up as a child and witnessing violence in your home or being subjected to violence is an enormous abuse and trauma, but it is also learning to fight and use violence. We know that children who are beaten or witness violence are at increased risk of being themselves exposed to violence and of being harmed in other ways. Perhaps the most tragic thing is that, in nine cases out of ten, anyone who beats their child or loved one has been the victim of violence or witnessed domestic violence. If we do not succeed in breaking the spiral of violence, we are not only betraying the children and women who are victims of violence today, but are also in danger of betraying the next generation. With the government's proposal, we are taking an important step towards breaking this spiral. These are new powers, such as breaking the confidentiality of healthcare and social services in cases to prevent or prevent men's violence against women and children. Social services need to take greater responsibility to get the striker to stop beating. Anyone who exposes his family to violence should be punished for this, but in order to break the spiral of violence, efforts aimed at changing behaviour and preventing relapse must be undertaken in a more structured way than is being done today. This should not only be done by social services, but also in preschool, school and other parts of society. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would urge anyone who looks at this debate or otherwise takes part in it to reflect on: Is your own behaviour at risk? Are you close to aggression or outbursts of anger, or do you know someone close to aggression and outbursts of anger? In such a situation, help should be sought. We need to pay attention to this and also point it out and clarify it in our everyday lives. We must have the courage to say stop. By taking responsibility for your behavior or the behavior of your friends, you can help save lives. There are stakes. For example, you can contact a support line called Choose to quit. It can be reached by phone number 020-555 666. Finally, I would like to support reservation number 1.
i-35fe201d511bb650-377	Madam President, I would like Every time a woman is killed by someone who stands or has been close to her, it is a terrible failure. I won't let that happen. Nevertheless, since the turn of the millennium, an estimated 300 women have been killed in Sweden by their husband, ex-husband, boyfriend or ex-boyfriend. Unfortunately, deadly violence is only the tip of an iceberg. In Brå's latest survey of crimes in close relationships, one in four women reported that she had been subjected to crimes in a close relationship at some point in her life. Men's violence against women, violence in close relationships, honour-related violence and oppression and violence in young people's relations must stop. But that's not a new problem. There are no imported problems. Since the early 2000s, lethal violence against women in close relationships has declined from an average of 18 cases to 15 cases annually. Surveys from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council show that the number of cases decreased already in the 1990s compared to the 1970s. Why do I say that? Should we settle for it? No. But it shows that it is possible to change, that violence can be stopped and that violence must be stopped. That we need to do much more to tackle the violence became very clear when, just a few weeks earlier this spring, there were several terrible acts. In the wake of these acts, the question of men's violence against women was finally given the place it deserves in the public debate. It's both important and good. As Minister for Gender Equality, I welcome the commitment of civil society, opinion leaders and parliamentary parties to the issue. There is a great force in the frustration and anger that we all feel, and it is now our joint responsibility to transform that power into a long-term and wide-ranging effort to put an end to men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like It is painfully clear that we need to do more to put an end to violence. As long as a single woman is murdered by a loved one, we have to do more. But it is not a job that begins today. It is a work that has been going on for a long time, and it is a work that must continue until every woman lives in safety. In recent years, the government has taken important steps to develop the work against men's violence against women, violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and repression. Let me mention a few key actions. At the national level, we have set aside more money than ever in support of victims of violence against women by men. In recent years, the Government has decided on a comprehensive distribution of state grants to non-profit women's and girls' shelters. The intentions to work long-term towards clear objectives must also be reflected in support for those civil society organisations that do such an important job. The government has also taken the initiative to tighten up the legislation in several ways. Among other things, the Consent Act was introduced on 1 July 2018. This change of law is incredibly important, not least because it is normative. The law clearly states what should always have been obvious: Sex should be voluntary. Anything but a clear yes is a no and thus illegal. Brå's review also shows that the number of prosecutions and convictions for rape has increased significantly since the new legislation was introduced. The fight against violence must take place in all parts of the public domain. Support for victims of violence must be more equal across the country. The government has therefore commissioned authorities that meet with many citizens to develop methods for detecting violence. This applies to Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Migration Agency with the support of the Equality Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. The government has invested heavily in the Police Authority, and the strong effort to expand the Police Authority is ongoing. The county administrative boards and their mission to prevent men's violence against women are also important. The fact that the government has now permanentized their mission provides much better conditions for long-term and strategic work. The government has also switched the work towards honour-related violence and repression and invested a lot of money in a series of measures. Among other things, we establish a national competence centre for the work against honour-related violence and take strong steps to increase competence in government agencies. We have tightened the legislation linked to honour-related violence and repression in several parts. These include a new penalty base for honorary motives, an exit ban to protect children from being taken abroad in order to enter into a child's marriage or to be genitally stymied and a new crime, child marriage crime. This means that it is punishable to cause a child to marry. But that's not enough. In one of the world's most equal countries, men's violence against women should not be part of society's image. An intensive work has been going on for some time now on a new action programme against men's violence against women, which the government has announced in the past. We need to gather together with a focus on making a real difference for those who are exposed. Together with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg, I have also been given the Prime Minister's mission to intensify the work against men's violence against women. We intend to return shortly with a strong package of efforts. But, Madam President, the prevention of violence is absolutely crucial. We're gonna punish whoever beats. We will support and help the one who has been beaten. But we must always keep an eye on the goal: that no one should ever be subjected to violence in a relationship. The first battle will never fall, and the striker will stop beating. Preventive work is about detecting and breaking violent behaviours in time and preventing the repetition of violence. But we must also influence norms and values that allow violence and abuse. We know that norms and behaviours linked to traditional masculinity are related to resistance to gender equality work and to violent behaviour. The norm of violence aims to create a position of power, and it is achieved by exposing others to violations and harassment. Not least the Metoo calls showed that we need to work actively with gender equality in order to tackle violence, abuse and harassment and, by extension, also deadly violence. Gender equality is not something that solves itself. It is not least clear in the Gender Equality Agency's report that came in the winter and showed that young men stand out as a group expressing more gender stereotypes and conservative attitudes than women and men of other ages. And that also matters when it comes to violence. Men who agree with gender stereotyped claims about the roles of women and men are more likely to use violence than young men who do not. As a society, helping to break destructive male norms plays a role in the safety of women and girls – for real. Madam President, I would like The bill being debated here today is an important piece of the puzzle in the overall prevention work. As we have heard before, there are three main elements. Firstly, violence in close relationships is largely a repeat crime. The risk that a person who has been subjected to violence in a close relationship will be exposed again is very great in comparison with what it is like in other types of crime. In order to protect victims of violence, there is a need to target the perpetrators of violence to prevent repeated violence. We need to break the spirals of violence. It is therefore so important that the Social Services Act states that it is part of the Social Services Board's tasks to work to ensure that the person who exposes or has victims of violence or other abuse changes his or her behaviour. Today, in practice, there are different situations in different municipalities when it comes to providing assistance to victims of violence and the extent to which it takes place. Secondly, children living in environments where there is violence in close relationships need special support. Providing children who experience violence from related information, advice and support – especially from healthcare – is important for the child and the child's development. Therefore, the Government proposes to introduce a provision in the Health Care Act and the Patient Safety Act that children's needs for information, advice and support should be specifically taken into account in healthcare if there is violence or other abuse in the child's vicinity. The proposal is an additional piece of the puzzle to protect children and prevent violence. It is also important in view of the fact that children who experience violence from close relatives are at increased risk of later being subjected to violence or victimising their loved ones. Thirdly, the bill also proposes the introduction of a non-confidential provision allowing the health and social services to provide information relating to a person to the Police Authority when there is a risk that that person will commit a crime against a loved one who can give at least one year's imprisonment and where the task can be assumed to contribute to preventing the crime. The proposal for a non-disclosure clause can help prevent serious and deadly violence in close relationship. Today, there is a risk that important information will not reach the police. When the police are given information at an early stage that can prevent serious violence in a close relationship, it can save lives. These changes will play an important role in prevention, not least in putting an end to gross and deadly violence. But they should be seen as an important part of a whole. The bill is a piece of the puzzle that is added to the measures already taken while we know that more will be required of the parliament and government in the future. Because as I began with: As long as a single woman is murdered by a loved one, as long as a single woman lives in fear of her and her children's safety and as long as a single child in Sweden hides to avoid seeing her mother beaten, we have more to do. We must never give up; we must never stop working until the violence has stopped. Finally, Madam President, the government and Parliament have a very great responsibility. However, if we are to succeed in breaking the spiral of violence seriously, we must also achieve a broad mobilization against violence throughout society. It's about government agencies working together, helping each other and hooking arms. It is about municipalities and regions that learn from each other and change their work. But it is also about trade unions, sports movements and religious communities. It is about employers, housing companies and other parts of the business community that are mobilizing in their full range and with their combined impact. This will be required if we are to succeed. I have recently met several representatives of organisations who themselves have expressed their wish to contribute. We can make a difference. We have seen that violence can be reduced. But let me be very clear and repeat: As long as a single woman is killed, it is one too many. As long as a single woman is killed, we have more to do, now, but also long-term. It is the least of those who are exposed can actually expect of us.
i-35fe201d511bb650-408	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your commitment to this extremely important debate. The Minister mentioned in his speech that the very serious crimes that we are debating today are repeat crimes that are often committed over and over again by the same perpetrator of the same victim. What the Green Party has done on repeated occasions is to vote against the Moderates' proposal for stricter penalties and tougher action against this serious crime. Now, in her speech today and also when she visited the Social Affairs Committee this morning, the Minister is saying that a strong package of measures should be presented forward. Then, of course, I would like to ask whether the Green Party has changed its feet and, in its government position, will deliver more stringent penalties for, for example, gross female discrimination, whether it will ensure that there will be compulsory detention on more occasions and whether it will simply be harder against this type of crime. It is in itself, Madam President, a very important crime prevention measure to ensure that those who commit repeated acts of violence against women and, in addition, many times also children are actually locked in and cannot commit new crimes. I also find it regrettable that, for example, the government has said no to the 80 million extra women's shelters that we in the Moderates proposed in our budget motion. It is important to support that work and ensure that there are sufficient resources there. In conclusion, my question is: what does the strong package promised by the Minister mean here? There were very few words about what it would mean in concrete terms.
i-35fe201d511bb650-414	Madam President, I would like I must ask for the package to come back again. It is being prepared, and I hope that we will be able to present it in a very short time. We have already announced a number of penalties in the past, including in the case of gross female discrimination, and are preparing legislative referrals on these. This also applies to the proposals for a ban on contact. In the meantime, we have also carried out a wide range of penalties in a number of areas, not least in the area of sex crime and what also affects the standardization that is so important for us to get to the root of this problem. I fully share the honourable Member's ambition to lock up the perpetrators, but what I am perhaps even more convinced of is that the crimes should never happen. It is not possible to punish anyone until a crime has been committed, and that is why I think it is incredibly important that we, which is now being dealt with in this bill, also have a simultaneous focus on prevention so that once and for all we can stop the violence before it happens. Then, of course, we will punish the perpetrator every time it does.
i-35fe201d511bb650-417	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Green Party in government is now prepared to table, after many years of no-show, sharp proposals for punitive measures is a reversal which I naturally welcome. It really is needed, not least to send a clear signal of how incredibly serious society views this type of crime. Of course, we fully agree that we must work really preventively and ensure that these crimes are never committed. I am sorry to say, Madam President, that of the proposals which the investigation has produced and which form the basis of the proposal we are debating today, many have chosen not to proceed with. I won't say it was a thumbnote, but it wasn't as extensive a bill as we on the Moderates would have wanted. Many other preventive measures must also be taken. First of all, we need to ensure that Swedish social services are generally strengthened. As I said, it is often on its knees out in Sweden's 290 municipalities, and it is important to strengthen it. We also believe that there is a need for a national action plan on support for children who are victims of crime. Such an action plan should have a particular focus on preventing and counteracting threats of violence, violence and abuse on children, and this work needs to build on the very successful model of children's houses that exists around Sweden and is an important measure to provide the child with the best possible support. Other and more legal measures that are needed and that we Moderates are pushing for are further punitive measures in relation to sexual offences, but also that the police have better opportunities to investigate these crimes, such as the possibility of questioning a minor, a person under 15 years of age, even if the guardians have not given their consent. The police should also not be obliged to inform the guardians that they have had an interrogation with a minor. Are these measures and proposals that can also be supported by the Green Party and the government? These would be important changes in order to further strengthen the protection of vulnerable children and women exposed to violence.
i-35fe201d511bb650-423	Madam President, I would like I welcome the great commitment shown by the honourable Member on the issues. After many years of relative disinterest in the national debate, I believe, as I said in the speaker's chair, that it is extremely important to have the enormous commitment that currently exists from all parties in Parliament and that we now have this focus also on men's violence against women and not just on men's violence against men. I very much welcome this. I am also pleased with the shift that I think is clearer than that of the Green Party, namely the Moderates' acceptance of preventive work. I welcome that. I would like to draw particular attention to the national strategy on violence against children, with which an investigator has started to work. In this way, we will have the collective work around children who are victims of violence that is needed to produce more effective measures. Otherwise, we will come back with more proposals in this area. This bill is an important step, but far from the whole work. It jackets in previous measures, and more measures will be added to the bill. But this bill is an important piece of the puzzle in that work.
i-35fe201d511bb650-426	Madam President, I would like I am also pleased with the commitment of the Government. Now we will look forward to a package of measures that responds to the commitment. In this package of measures, there must be substantial support for civil society organisations. It was the women's shelters that were the first to provide support for women who were victims of violence by their husbands. It wasn't public. If there had not been women's shelters and girls' shelters over the years, the women would have been all alone. I am absolutely sure that we need their commitment in the future, even though the public is building up its support for both the use of reprisals, the detention of those who commit crimes, and prevention. That's the public mission. However, there is still much that civil society needs to contribute. In what way does the Government envisage the support being? Of course, the holidays are happy with resources, but they do not always come in the right way. They come quickly, they are not long-term and they are sometimes designed in a way that makes it impossible to use them. How does the Government want to work on this issue? Then there is the work of social services. I am, of course, delighted with the proposal we are discussing today which, as far as I can judge, will receive the support of Parliament. But it will also be necessary for social services to receive substantial support in order to be able to carry out their work. Social Services are understaffed today. There is also a lack of competence in social services. You simply need more time with each client. What does the Government think of that? Earlier in the discussion there was a Member who felt that the government had made the law sufficiently fuzzy so that it would not be used. Therefore, the risk of not applying the Social Services Act was Chapter 5. Section 11, which deals with support for women who are victims of violence. I would like to hear how the Government views this issue. Is the law written fairly fuzzy, or is it supposed to be sharp and used?
i-35fe201d511bb650-431	Madam President, I would like For many years, in the last five years, we have increased support for women's and girls' shelters by about 400 per cent. That's a lot more money than before. But it is quite right that there is a demand for a greater long-term perspective in the work, and that is something that we take very seriously and look at. The honourable Member mentions that the money cannot always be used for what you wish. We are not in a position to put money directly into sheltered housing because of the state aid rules. This is something that we in the Government Office have worked with a lot to find a solution. What will be presented, however, is a legislative referral aimed at simplifying procurement and increasing the possibilities for social services not to use the Public Procurement Act. In this way, there will be a better long-term perspective for women's shelters. Their work is invaluable, I would like to emphasise. Social services have had, and have, a challenging situation. It is also where the Government and the Riksdag have provided a lot of additional resources to the municipalities, in order for them to be able to work with social services, among other things. Social services are under the municipalities, and I hope and believe that many municipalities give high priority to social services in their budgets and will continue to do so. To the bill, money has also been announced in order to manage the expanded mission. Like others, the balance between support for victims of violence and support for perpetrators of violence in the legislation – how to express themselves – is important in order for it to be clear that there is no priority between them that strikes to the advantage of the perpetrator.
i-35fe201d511bb650-435	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, this means that all ideas-based and non-profit forces can expect better proposals in the autumn proposal. That would be welcome. They want to see a long-term perspective, and they also want to see state aid that is useful for the organisations. For a long time, the public has not understood civil society. In retrospect, you have to try to correct. I would therefore like to stress the importance of having a close and close dialogue with the non-profit forces and ideas-driven activities. They are the closest people to the violent women and their children. They know what the support should be like. They are the touchbars that we need, and they need to see that the support is there also in the long term. Similarly, social services must be given a better opportunity to operate in the future. It has a huge mission, and not least a valuable area of responsibility. It will ensure the activities of its geographical area and that people can develop and have a good life. Precisely women who are victims of violence by their loved ones lack the freedom we take for granted. It should be a basic task for social services to do this work, but it must also have the necessary resources. I assume that the Government is interested in the implementation and implementation of the laws put forward. This also applies to those parts that should work preventively. I assume that they are not added to reduce something else, but to contribute to – be a piece of the puzzle – strengthening the whole. From the Parliament's side, we want to be careful that what Parliament decides also becomes a reality – hence our announcement today.
i-35fe201d511bb650-440	Madam President, I would like We agree on what we want to see from the legislation. The difference here lies in the expression we use in the new bill. We have sought a balance so that social services do not interpret it as meaning that the government or parliament is concerned with a priority for perpetrators of violence over victims of violence. That is why we have chosen to use the same concept to make it clear that there is no priority between them. That is the reason for this position, and we maintain it. I'm glad we have a consensus. I had a great deal of agreement with the Committee on Social Affairs earlier today, and I have a great deal of agreement in this House on the importance of these issues and the importance of getting preventive work in place so that violence does not happen at all. In the best of worlds, our punishments become obsolete because the crimes are not committed. I dare not believe that this will happen tomorrow, but it is a goal that we should all have in mind.
i-35fe201d511bb650-442	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Märta Stenevi for having personally participated in today's debate and for her participation in the Social Affairs Committee meeting today. I think we have a consensus on many issues, which I think is very positive. The government of which Stenevi is part is in the process of carrying out market rents. It is a historic shift that would mean huge increases in rental costs. Both Stenevi and I are aware that economics and housing are two major obstacles to leaving a violent relationship. What is the government's response to those who are now in danger of being literally locked up in a much worse housing situation?
i-35fe201d511bb650-445	Madam President, I would like Then I shall begin by being extremely clear in this House once again: the proposal or the wording contained in the January agreement does not mean market rents. This does not mean any change in the rental model or the renting model of the 3 million households who may be afraid that their rents will be shocked, as I know the honourable Member's party has expressed it on several occasions as it is. The proposal that is on the government table is about free renting in new production if the builder chooses to use that model in consultation with the tenant. Then there are parts of the proposal that the investigator has put forward that go beyond what is agreed in the January agreement and that we will have to look further at. The connection to this debate is the opportunity to move and find a place to live when you need to leave a destructive relationship. This is part of the report on socially sustainable housing supply that Karolina Skog has on her table as an investigator and which aims to review, among other things, the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality and how the queue systems work and how priority systems could work. I hope and believe that we will be able to get proposals on the ground that will help this group too so that it will have easier access to the housing market. I did not really see the debate on market rents coming here and now, but I would like to emphasise again for the 3 million households who are in a contract today: the proposal will not affect the renting of the existing stock at all.
i-35fe201d511bb650-451	Madam President, I would like Yeah, it might seem like a far-fetched connection. I can understand that in some sense. At the same time, this is one of the biggest challenges we face when we talk about men's violence against women. It is therefore about the possibility of leaving the dwelling and also about the possibility of getting a new dwelling. The economy and housing are also two forms of violence that are used very actively, which I know the Government is aware of. As the Government says, the proposal on market rents is not the subject of this debate. We have different perceptions of the consequences that this will have. However, I think it is incredibly important to carry out a proper impact assessment of the impact of such a proposal on those who are being subjected to violence. This really applies to all the legislation we have. It must be looked at on the basis of the actual consequences for those who are most affected. My supplementary question, therefore, is this: has an impact assessment been carried out on the people who are being raped by the proposal on market rents that the government intends to present?
i-35fe201d511bb650-455	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by giving the Member of Parliament the right to one thing, and that is how extremely important the housing issue is for those who are victims of violence. It is also important that work on equal living incomes continues. The Commission appointed will deliver its report shortly after the New Year. It is incredibly important that we come up with proposals on how we can even out the income of life between men and women in order for more people to have their own economy, a strong economy, and thus the freedom that it means being able to choose to walk, to be able to find a new home, to know that you can support your children on your own without having to take the risk of going back to a perpetrator because you cannot manage your finances. This is where society must be and receive. There must be a housing allowance system that works. There must be a child benefit system that works. Because you have a residence permit and not citizenship, you should not be able to find yourself in a situation where you suddenly get so low a income that you cannot support yourself or get a place to live. We must continue to work on investment aid in order to develop rental apartments with reasonable rents. But the cheapest apartments are still in the existing stock. And, to answer the honourable Member's question, that stock is not affected by the proposal that is on the table with the government. On the other hand, we need to come up with proposals on how to facilitate the entry of low-income people into the housing market. It can be violent women, who often leave a lot behind to walk. This is an extremely important issue, and we hope to have proposals in the coming year.
i-35fe201d511bb650-460	Madam President, I would like I have a question or perhaps a solution to the problem that you have just debated. The compote is a network that we built up at the County Administrative Board Östergötland when I served there in the national competence team. When I left the county administrative board, 67 municipalities had agreements between them so that people who had protection reasons and could not stay in their municipality of residence, just as the Government was on could receive priority to apartment, school, childcare, health care and all those parts. The first month was still written in their municipality of residence so that no difficulties would arise. There could be family or something. But after a month, this passed. In all the years I worked there, we built this network. When it became relatively large, I contacted the government and asked whether it was possible to support this work, which we did alongside all the tasks we had. We never got a response. It was not Minister Stenevi who was a minister then, but Åsa Regnér and then Minister Stenevis's representative. I think that here we have a possible solution. It is an already built-up system which is now about to collapse but which, with the right efforts, could get started again. It had an incredibly good effect. Municipalities are now coming to me in despair that it does not exist. I wonder if Minister Stenevi is prepared to take steps to resolve what she was on as an important part of the housing issue.
i-35fe201d511bb650-466	Madam President, I would like I am always prepared to look at good proposals to solve problems in this area. I know too little about this specific project to be able to say either bu or ba about what has been said and not said before. I'd have to find out. On the other hand, the general question of which housing agencies exist, which queues exist and how to handle them and how to handle people in great need of housing in priority systems is one of the parts that the report on socially sustainable housing supply should look at. In addition to the question that Juno Blom is asking me, I would like to say that I hope that we will also get good proposals from this investigation, which may involve more groups than this one. In particular, it should look at a coherent system for socially sustainable housing provision in the country.
i-62FLwaTPkquzvc4HtpWzTL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Stenevi, for your interest! I think it is important to see that when it comes to having to move, the housing issue is a very small part, albeit important. Then it is about the system as a whole, and that is where these agreements come in. However, municipalities must also recognise and understand that they are being supported in order for some people to move so that they are inclined to accept and make all the other efforts. I am happy to get back to that, and I have a lot of material connected to it. I am also going to ask a question linked to the pandemic and the freedom and vulnerability it has brought. Studies have been produced in other parts of Europe in particular, looking at how this has affected violence against women and children. In Sweden we have received some information from civil society, from children's rights organisations, but I have not seen that there has been an overall assessment by the government. I think it is important from the point of view that we have now strengthened civil society with funds. I am of the opinion that, when society opens up, we will unfortunately see the terrible consequences of this. Then it is important that we do not lag behind without ensuring together that we equip civil society but also, of course, the authorities so that they can be on hand and receive the terrible consequences of the violence being able to escalate and also start in connection with the increased vulnerability.
i-35fe201d511bb650-473	Madam President, I would like I very much share the honourable Member's concerns on this issue. As the honourable Member also points out, it is mainly from children's rights organisations that we receive these clear signals. When we talk to the women's and girls' shelters, they say that the requests have not increased so much. The municipalities with which I have had talks about this have not seen the great increase that we could have expected. The tragic probability in this is that the pandemic has made it more difficult to leave. What we hear from children, on the other hand, is increased exposure to domestic violence, increased anxiety, increased ill health and increased mental illness. There is tremendous pressure on these children. I share the concern that when society starts to open up, we will have the effect that very many people need support at the same time. So far, we have a readiness for this. We are following it closely, and so far I think we have made sufficient resources available. However, I believe that there must be a readiness to follow developments, because this is a concern for the future. Finally, I would just like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Juno for all the work she has done in this area for many years and which is very important for what we are now doing in the future. As I said, what we are doing today is neither the first nor the last thing we need to do. However, all that the honourable Member has achieved, pursued and done in his previous work is an important basis for all the work that will have to be done forward. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the House very much for that work.
i-35fe201d511bb650-479	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for taking part in the debate today. I heard that the Government was on the children's perspective. After all, we are debating preventive measures against violence in close relations, and in the midst of this violence are, as a rule, children. During 2018 – 2019 6,200 children and 6,500 women lived at least one night on a sheltered accommodation. Protected housing as an intervention is currently not regulated in the Social Services Act, but children are accompanying. In some sense, social services do not have the opportunity to follow up and that the sheltered housing does not have the authority to keep documentation, support, help and be at hand for the child, which I may feel from a child law perspective is actually a shortcoming. The ability of the various sheltered accommodations is different. Some sheltered accommodations have quite a lot of effort and support for children, while others don't have it at all. This makes equality very different, despite the fact that all children actually have the same needs and need to have the same conditions for support and help. I would like to ask Mrs Stenevi whether she is prepared to look at the fact that, in the case of a child accompanying an adult, a decision is also made about the child.
i-35fe201d511bb650-484	Madam President, I would like There is a lot of preparation of various proposals from several different investigations concerning sheltered housing and how to deal with these situations. My very short answer is actually the same as to the Liberals' Juno Blom, that I am always prepared to look at and consider the proposals that come forward. At present, we do not have a ready-made proposal on how to resolve this. However, several proposals are being prepared which I hope we will be able to take forward in some form; however, I am afraid to respond to them today.
i-35fe201d511bb650-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Many sheltered accommodations demand more contact and discussion with the social services and also the opportunity to provide information to the social services. There are also many children who move between shelters, which means that, for example, schooling is broken down and people fall into different schools. It is very difficult for each school to actually do some kind of follow-up and be able to support the child in school, which is also very important. In the interviews Bris has conducted with children living in sheltered accommodations, it often appears that children find it unfair and strange that they should have to move from home, friends, school and housing and that the perpetrator should stay at home. That is why we have proposed, as many investigations also do, that municipalities provide housing for the perpetrator. Does the Government look at such a solution? Could it be an alternative to meeting the child's needs even more than what is actually being done today?
i-35fe201d511bb650-488	Madam President, I would like To be able to move the perpetrator to a greater extent rather than the victim of violence, I think there are many of us who are possessed by. Among other things, the restrictions imposed by the Government are aimed at restricting access to the common dwelling and at making it possible, as a first-hand measure, to use an electronic ankle in the event of a ban on contact. Then we need to be very careful to know that we are not putting the victim of violence or the family at increased risk, but that the dimension is always that of living in shelter. As far as the situation of children is concerned, I very much share the concern and sorrow of the children who are forced to break up several times, not least when they are forced to move repeatedly because of the disclosure of information and because the perpetrator finds the family. Here we have given a mission to strengthen the knowledge of the professionals and authorities who encounter the victims of violence and handle the data so that protected data will not be disclosed. It still happens too often, and it is a major problem. Every time it happens, it's once too much. I hope that we will move forward so that personal data will not be disclosed, but that children will have an opportunity to restart their lives in peace and quiet and without being able to be found by an perpetrator. Several of the proposals are aimed precisely at this. It is an incredibly important perspective to have in mind that children's entire lives are put on the head in this situation.
i-35fe201d511bb650-492	Madam President, I would like The work to strengthen Sweden's cyber security needs to be stepped up and intensified. Our preparedness is not at all good enough in this area. In the Global Cybersecurity Index, which is perhaps the world's largest international survey, Sweden last year placed itself on number 32, and this year we will be in place 43 when evaluating Swedish cybersecurity in an international comparison. It's not good enough for one of the world's most digitized countries. Today, we are hopefully putting a piece of the puzzle in place through the introduction of the complementary provisions for the EU cybersecurity act. The objective of the EU cybersecurity act, Madam President, is to raise cyber security throughout the EU. It's important. As you know, no chain is stronger than its weakest link. We all seek to create a single single digital market, and then the minimum level of all members of the European Union must be raised. In substance, in its report, the Committee on Defence proposes that CSEC at FMV be designated as the national cybersecurity certification authority and that CSEC should also be given supervisory responsibility for this certification. The Moderates welcome the appointment of CSEC and FMV as certification authority. However, we believe that it would have been more resource efficient if the oversight mission itself had been put on MSB, and there are two reasons for this. Firstly, FMV itself points out that it is contradictory that CSEC should both have certification responsibilities and supervise its parent authority. Secondly, MSB already has an established field organisation for cybersecurity oversight, which FMV lacks. Madam President, I would like There is a critical lack of competence in the field of information and cyber security in Sweden. Some professional organisations say that up to 70 000 people are missing. Then authorities and public administration must work resource-efficiently and smartly, but in Sweden, unfortunately, we tend to spread our cyber security resources across many different agencies and ministries. We usually say that there are at least four ministers and eight authorities working on cybersecurity, and it risks creating power fragmentation and depletion of skills in such a narrow sector as cybersecurity. Madam President, I would like Today's decision is also a symptom of another trend in cybersecurity in Sweden, namely that it is EU cooperation that drives much of our cybersecurity work. It was the EU that, through the NIS Directive, forced Sweden as the last country within the Union to establish an information and cyber security strategy. It was the EU that required Sweden to introduce mandatory incident reporting, despite the fact that a Swedish investigation proposed this already in 2001. It was also the EU that ensured that Sweden developed a sector system for higher information security in essential services. Madam President, I would like Today we have a growing gap between digitalisation and cybersecurity. For each new unit that is digitised, new areas are created that can be attacked by perpetrators, but the security work does not go at the same pace as digitalisation. We see growing threats, risks and vulnerabilities in the cyber area. Above all, the advanced state-sanctioned attacks on Sweden are increasing in strength and scope. The problem has also been reinforced during the pandemic as many people work remotely with unsafe encryption. So we have a combination of high digitization and low security. We depend on digital solutions, but they are quite vulnerable. The equation doesn't make sense. A much deeper understanding is needed, not least within the government, that digitalisation and cybersecurity must go hand in hand. Today, the government has one minister for digitalisation and another for cybersecurity, and that is not sustainable. Madam President, I would like The Moderates were first in the Swedish debate and suggested that a national cybersecurity centre be established. We therefore welcome the fact that the government has now given planning instructions for this. But we also note that work has been slow. All other Nordic countries already have operational cybersecurity centres in place, but the Swedish centre will not be ready until 2023. The Moderates would have liked to have seen the Defence Radio Institute become the principal, or feed host, of the Centre. The reason is that cyber security must be combined with intelligence from signal intelligence if you want to know who is attacking Sweden in the cyber area and how it is done. Finally, if we are to achieve good cyber security in Sweden, a much stronger cooperation between authorities and companies in the field of cyber security needs to be established. Basically all services of social importance, banking, telecoms, transport and finance, are in the hands of private companies. We must ensure that we are able to protect these companies if they are attacked. It is both about national security and about Sweden's long-term competitiveness. Madam President, I would like I support the joint reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, number one.
i-L9UgQvSW5ZyB29faTE8kwu	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Defence's report FÖU6 Supplementary provisions to the EU's security act and motions on information and cyber security. The Government proposal includes proposals for the establishment of a national cybersecurity certification authority and for supervision, sanctions and procedures in cyber security certification itself. We Swedish democrats are in favour of the proposal in general and see it as a good example of when cooperation within the European Union can benefit Sweden and our country's security interests. Information and cyber security issues are becoming increasingly important for our society and for our total defence, as a single completed cyber attack can have major consequences and leveraged large resources – as has been clearly demonstrated by cyber attacks on various US civil companies over the past few weeks. The cyber threats targeted at Sweden are multifaceted and can be linked to several different types of threat actors. In general, these are individual states, criminal groupings and ideologically motivated groups, such as terrorist networks. The purpose of the attacks is, of course, different. State actors are carrying out attacks to obtain information that is in the interests of their own country, while terrorist networks are run by more ideologically formulated agendas. In order to prevent intrusion and to ensure that sensitive information does not come into the wrong hands, it is of the utmost importance that all actors, such as authorities, municipalities, regions and businesses, do their utmost to make it more difficult for an attacker's intention to get over security-worthy information. Madam President, I would like All companies should compete on equal terms and be given the same opportunity to invest in, for example, IT infrastructure. However, we believe that the possibility of free competition needs to be limited to national security interests. For example, infrastructure with a national security interest should not be subject to strategic purchases. If a state company holding such infrastructure is disposed of, these parts of the company will continue to be kept under state control – as we have already called for in this House. Finally, there is another piece of the puzzle that is important if you are to succeed in preventing cyber attacks, and it is a well-functioning cyber defence. Developments in this area have been rapid in recent years, and we can be proud that Sweden now stands strong internationally. Sweden has the ability to conduct both offensive and defensive cyber operations. This does not mean, of course, that we can sit back, but Sweden must continue its continuous work and constantly develop to strengthen its ability to withstand attacks regardless of the sender. Therefore, we Swedish democrats are very positive about the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts and the ongoing development to strengthen their capabilities, including by establishing another cyber-defence unit in 2022. We have for a long time stressed the importance of creating and further developing cyber security and a robust defence against attacks in all parts of society. We also consider it of the utmost importance that information and cyber security activities are conducted in such a way that the freedom of expression that prevails in Sweden is taken into account. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation number 5.
i-35fe201d511bb650-519	Madam President, I would like The Center Party sees the threat to Sweden and was therefore the driving force in getting a total defense decision. We see that the threat is a multi-threat. What we are facing is hybrid warfare.As we all know, the cyber war is going on here and now, 24:7, 365 days a year. Cyber safety is a subject that we will discuss much in the future. The proposal before us is essentially a good one. We have a few requests, but we support the main point. Madam President, I would like What we in the Center Party think needs to be supplemented in terms of cyber security and where it is not perfect today is the need to create an cyber-crime commission, just as the Netherlands has done. We note that leading IT experts in Sweden agree with the Center Party on this. Why is it necessary? Because the function of analysing incidents, creating recommendations and disseminating advice, guidelines and information on the necessary improvements for both public and private actors is not fully available today. Today's system works in such a way that it has an obligation to report what has happened but that the state has no obligation to disseminate the conclusions of this. We can take the example of Klarna, who has been subjected to a massive cyberattack in recent weeks. They chose to go out on their own with what has happened in detail, such as the dissemination of knowledge. They had no obligation to do so. The state thus collects knowledge but does not disseminate the results and conclusions, which makes the dissemination of knowledge far too poor. We call it an accident commission. The system we have at the moment is comparable to that of an air accident commission which does not publish the final report. I can take a local example from my reality at home, where Region Gotland and the news house Helgotland were subjected to an extensive cyber-attack that lasted for a whole month. The region had to purchase a lot of consulting services to sort this out. It cost 1.6 million, with major practical consequences for, for example, health care and teleworking in the whole region. About a week ago, it was discovered that a minor under the age of 15, in practice a school child, had made the attack. This means that there is probably no possibility of imposing any criminal liability or reimbursement of expenses. The fact that denial of service attacks affect Gotland is nothing new. For example, last spring Bank ID was subjected to the same type of attack. The basic problem is that it is incredibly cheap to do so. Buying the system costs only a few hundred dollars online, and anyone can do it and carry out denial of service attacks. That is why we need to find a system to follow events better than we do today, without blaming anyone. The basic task of an IT accident commission should be to answer three simple questions: What happened? Why did it happen? How do we avoid this happening again? I would also like to raise the issue of misinformation. It is a huge social problem that we already have today. We know that psychological defence is about to start at the beginning of next year, and there are instructions to work on disinformation issues. I would particularly like to raise the concept of deep fakes, which I myself have gone in and Googled today for ten minutes. You get very scared of what's possible. It is based on the fact that with AI technology it is possible to get any person to say just anything, and it looks extremely credible. Go inside and google and you'll see. This will be a truly advanced threat to democracy. In my world, it's almost a horror scenario for the truth, and with the connection to the internet and social media, I don't really understand how we're going to get something to be true in the future. I think we need to work a lot harder on this. Another thing I want to raise is that broadband expansion is part of cybersecurity, and here the Swedish Armed Forces need to look at society's development, become part of it and seek coexistence solutions. This applies not least when we are building new mobile masts. Today, we have the attitude of just saying no, but we think that we should be helpful in finding alternative placements. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Center Party support the Moderate and Christian Democrats' motion on regulatory responsibility for cyber security certificates. I believe that the arguments put forward are correct. With this, Madam President, the Center Party is in favour of reservation number 4.
i-35fe201d511bb650-530	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like The development of recent years, with an increasing number of threats and intrusions into government and corporate digital systems, points to the need to constantly improve and develop our ability to resist unwelcome or even hostile attacks on cyber infrastructure and security-worthy information. It's an eternal cat-and-mouse game, where the race between the one who attacks and the one who defends goes on around the clock, all year round. As a society, we must ensure that adequate resources are spent on protecting structures and information that can be misused in the wrong hands. This work will never be finished and can sometimes feel like a sisyphoid work without end. Madam President, I would like As we have heard here today, the case has its background in the EU cybersecurity act and a sub-report from the Cybersecurity investigation that followed. The purpose of the Security Act is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market while aiming at a high level of cyber security, cyber resilience and trust within the Union. With regard to the complementary provisions of the EU cybersecurity act, the majority of committees welcome the government's proposal and endorse it for the same reasons as set out in the bill. Madam President, I would like I move on to regulatory responsibility over the regulatory framework for cybersecurity certification. The majority of the committee has made the same assessment as both the investigation and the government, namely that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is the authority best placed to carry out the tasks of the national cybersecurity certification authority. An important starting point for the establishment of this authority is, as both the investigation and several consultation bodies have pointed out, to take into account the independence requirements of the EU cybersecurity act. Madam President, I would like The majority of the committee supports the assessment of FMV's experience and competence. We have no other opinion than that FMV's experience, including from certification activities, and their technical competence and knowledge are an advantage in the construction of a system for effective oversight of the regulatory framework for cybersecurity certification.
i-35fe201d511bb650-536	Madam President, I would like We need to strengthen our defence to protect our democracy. The government has put forward a proposal for a law with additional provisions to the EU cybersecurity act and a proposal to amend it. It has also included examining the additional national provisions, including procedural and sanctions, which the Regulation requires and which may be necessary to introduce. They are needed to complement the EU cybersecurity act, including a national cyber security certification authority, oversight, sanctions and the process of this work. The objective of the EU cybersecurity act is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market while at the same time striving to achieve a high level of cyber security, cyber resilience and trust within the Union. The rapid digitisation and speed of the information society is making issues of vulnerability and resilience in our social systems increasingly topical. Disinformation is common, and the number of impact campaigns is increasing. Although the aim of the vast majority of attacks is crime for economic purposes, the results can be serious disruptions to large and important activities in society, and the weaknesses can be exploited for attacks on a state. Cyber security needs to be increased in all activities in society, both in the public sector and in the private sector, and Sweden needs to strengthen its ability to prevent and respond to cyber attacks. The global and open nature of the digital infrastructure is crucial for companies and organisations to be able to carry out their activities and share knowledge between people in different countries. An open world benefits Sweden in many ways and is a prerequisite for environmental threats and security threats to be managed. In order for Sweden and other countries to have access to a global and open internet, cooperation across borders is needed. Collaboration within the Swedish cybersecurity centre began in 2020 to strengthen Sweden's overall ability to prevent, detect and manage antagonistic cyber threats. The Government has proposed that a total of SEK 50 million be added in 2021 for the overall work. FRA, the Swedish Armed Forces, MSB and Säpo continue to work to establish the national cybersecurity centre. Co-operation will be developed gradually, and the increased coordination that the establishment of the centre entails will be an important component of the development of information and cyber security in Sweden. In order to strengthen cyber security at EU level, a European cyber security competence centre will be set up as well as a network of national coordination centres on these issues. The Centre will strengthen its capacity, knowledge and infrastructure by, among other things, developing services for business and research. Other tasks will be to bring together key stakeholders in the EU, including industry, academic institutions, research centres and other relevant civil society organisations, and to create a community of cyber security competences to strengthen and disseminate this competence across the EU. In order for us to work safely together, we also need to ensure a satisfactory level of cyber security for information and communication technologies. This needs to be done throughout the Union, and we need to avoid fragmentation of the internal market in terms of certification. That is why we are now working together to develop European cybersecurity certification schemes that will make certificates issued under these certification schemes valid and recognised in all Member States. A national cybersecurity certification authority shall be allowed to decide on the necessary injunctions in relation to the EU cybersecurity act and to ensure compliance with the new law. The Government, like the investigation carried out, considers that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is the authority best placed to carry out these tasks. The experience of certification activities and the technical knowledge of the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is an advantage in the construction of a system of oversight of the cybersecurity certification regulatory framework. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is also deemed to be able to handle sensitive information that will need to be made available both in this certification and in the context of oversight activities. On behalf of the Green Party, we hope and believe that the Commission's proposal for action at European level in the field of cybersecurity can create European added value through the coordination of expertise and competence in Europe. Cooperation on cyber security within the EU will be extremely important for everyone's security and functions in society. They will be important for democracy. I support the committee's proposal.
i-35fe201d511bb650-553	Madam President, I would like Explosives and shootings have unfortunately become commonplace in Sweden. People are killed, injured or destroyed. Families are forced to move or actually flee because the worry of being affected is too great. It is Sweden today. Uncertainty spreads out like a dark shadow in Social Democracy Sweden. What is happening today is unprecedented in modern times, to use the government's own words. Sweden is the highest in Europe on this type of crime. It is serious not only for those affected, but it also affects trust in society as a whole between us citizens and between citizens and the state. The social contract, as it is commonly termed, between citizens and states has been eroded. In fact, it has even disappeared in some parts. This social contract must be restored. The state must regain control and restore confidence in the rule of law throughout Sweden, whether it is in a suburb or in rural areas. One of the absolute core tasks of the state is the ability to maintain security for its citizens. Then blasts and shootings cannot be everyday in news reports, as they are today. If there is a blast, it should be a running note event – something that is very unusual. It is no coincidence that the support for involving the Swedish military in the fight against crime is great at the moment; we have seen this in recent days. I don't think the support would have been that great if the government had done its job. Madam President, I would like Harder penalties, more police officers and more resources for customs, prosecutors and courts are of course right and proper. In this context, however, it is a matter for the Committee on Justice and not for us in the Committee on Defence. However, in our area too, we can take preventive measures to make it more difficult and prevent explosives used in explosives from falling into the wrong hands. Precautionary measures must go hand in hand with the more repressive measures. One doesn't rule out the other. On the contrary, they complement each other. Madam President, I would like Explosive goods are something we need, for example, when building roads, tunnels, sewage systems and homes. The field of application is both wide and large, and these goods are needed for both large and small projects. This makes access to explosives relatively widespread throughout the country, which means that the risk of explosives falling into the wrong hands increases. Therefore, of course, the control of those authorised to import, export, sell and use explosives is extensive. However, it has not been comprehensive enough, but needs to be expanded, tightened up and followed up better to make it more difficult for criminals to obtain these substances. I think – and it is no secret – that the government is doing a terrible job. I would like to change the government today if possible. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the legislative proposal that we are now debating is basically a good one. Several important and good measures are proposed which will improve control and reduce the risk of explosives falling into the wrong hands. This is clearly a step in the right direction. Madam President, I would like I am of the opinion that it is very good when more people think about it, because the end product usually gets significantly better then. This also applies when we discuss and produce laws. No one can today be satisfied with the developments we have seen in the field of shootings and blasting in Sweden, and we fully agree that this must stop. Then I think all the good ideas that can be developed to achieve this are worth taking advantage of. That is why, Madam President, I am a little concerned when we Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals want to supplement the Government's proposals with further improvements and this does not win. The Christian Democrats have tabled a proposal which we Moderates and Liberals support. It is about giving the Swedish Customs the opportunity to check for themselves at the border who are authorised to handle explosives – that is, explosives. They cannot do that today; today, the Swedish Customs Agency has to call another authority, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, and ask. It takes time, it gets complicated and, of course, it makes customs' important work difficult. This proposal would further reduce the risk of explosives falling into the hands of criminals, and that is what we all want. Madam President, I would like I get the feeling that representatives of the government parties when they dismiss this do not really see the seriousness of what is happening around Sweden – the government's proposal would somehow be complete, and the opinions of others do not matter. I very much regret this, and I hope that the representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party can explain in their speeches why, at 03.15 a Tuesday night, the Customs Agency will have to call an on-call official at MSB to find an answer to a question they could actually resolve for themselves. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support reservations 1, 3 and 4.
i-35fe201d511bb650-568	Madam President, I would like This debate is, of course, about stricter control. The previous speaker raised the matter of the Customs Agency, and I share that view. There are very many good proposals from the various parties. I will mention some improvements that I see for myself. I've had a permit for blasts – explosives – for over 20 years and have done many blasts, so I know a little bit about how it works out in the workplace. That is why I think we should also listen to the practical experience. The previous speaker mentioned that the explosions in Sweden were unprecedented, and I, too, had written that sentence. But I also think that the Social Democrats have taken a substantial step in the right direction. Perhaps you should have talked a little more with the profession, which is involved in this, even if you have done it to some extent. The points I am about to raise here show, in my view and in the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, what has been somewhat missed. If you now decide to go through the process of applying for a permit, you will have to attend an explosive training course; it may be in Nora or elsewhere, Madam President. Then you take a sample and get permission, or an explosive card. The explosive card shows what you can do. This is not clear from the legislation, but it could have been done in the past. If you have a general condition, you can only show it. It facilitated a great deal, but the checking that the person who issued the permit was really allowed to do so was harsh. There's a problem. One of the proposals we have is to review the transfer. What does the transfer licence look like if, for example, someone blows up in a municipality and then will do so in the next municipality? This must be facilitated. You should think about this and review it – you can also supplement this legislation. You need to look at this, because it's going to be very complicated otherwise. I shall now take up another point that I think you should take to heart. Today, visitors are reported at the blast sites. Outside Stockholm, they work at 600 to 700 kg or even one ton. When you visit these workplaces, you pre-notify it and say that you will come next week or in 14 days. Perfect order, isn't it? It's supposed to be unreported visits! You're supposed to show up at a workplace and check what it looks like. That's when you get the best result; then you see. Then you also support all the explosives that handle this very carefully with ignition plans, drilling plans and calculations of how much explosives have been used– how much did I take out, and what do I have left? But that does not matter today. If you report a visit 14 days in advance it is nice at all workplaces. I now come to another point which I think should be corrected, in the long term, if nothing else. If a permit is issued for three years, a new permit must therefore be applied for after three years. You're supposed to file excerpts from the load register... maybe to the fire chief, who's taken over responsibility in the municipalities from the police. Then you go into it. There'll be extra work for the blaster base. We could consider whether it is the case that, after three years of automatic data can be collected from the load register and then sent out when the permit has been extended. This would facilitate practical handling. If a person needs to be hired somewhere, do it! But don't make the blasters think, "Yeah, well, now I'm gonna have to look for this! How long will it take? Is it gonna take a month to get it? Then it is important to be out in good time so as not to get rid of it, at least temporarily. Another point concerns workplaces. When you visit the workplaces, you can see that there are a lot of people who are in the blast sites who are not there, Madam President. Many of them are not controlled, and they will not be more controlled by the legislation than they are now. Perhaps it is an excavator who jumps in temporarily, Madam President, and other people. You have to limit that. Whoever's supposed to be in charge of that is the blaster base. He'll decide who's gonna be in the area. You can support this much more. You should also check others who work with explosives such as chargers and drills. We support reservation 2. It's about DNA marking and displaying traceability in the explosive. We discussed this in the exercise, but it can be made much broader. We'll come back with the broader one. We will also collect other proposals that are good from other parties. We will look at this, because there are many wise points of view. There is another thing too. It's something we've been doing a little bit. You don't touch rock fracturing in the same way. If I go out tomorrow, I can charge and blow rocks. I don't need a warrant. I'll call you and tell you what, I'm going to blow up. But I have permission. That's where you pick this up. You don't have to call it rock fracturing or blasting, you have to show off your condition. That's where you're on the right track. I don't have a problem showing it. Okay, he says. Then you can call each other, which I still do, and say: Now it blows out where I live. Then the neighbor calls and says: Now Richthoff shoots again. But then it's rock fracturing. That conversation is practically very manageable. All in all, these are the three proposals. I think you should take a closer look at them.
i-35fe201d511bb650-589	Madam President, I would like The case concerns the strengthening of the control of explosives. Let me also begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like Violence in criminal contexts has changed in the 21st century. The number of shootings has increased considerably, and many have taken place in public places. The increase in shootings can largely be attributed to conflicts between criminal groups. In recent years, these conflicts have also led to an increased tendency to use explosives. The number of explosions in Sweden in recent years is unprecedented in modern times. Let me stress that too. I share the previous speaker's view that this is something that is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like As a society, we can never accept criminal gangs taking the right to threaten, abuse, blow up or shoot, to murder other people. Never, ever. We must take all the measures we deem necessary to halt this development. Together, as a society, we must drive the criminal gangs back and smash their structures. But it is both preventive work to prevent recruitment and active police work and justice. But it is partly another debate and an issue for which the Committee on Justice has the main responsibility. Madam President, I would like A number of measures have already been taken. They include both punitive measures and government missions to the relevant authorities to reduce the use of explosives by criminal groupings. For example, penalties have been tightened on two occasions for serious violations of the permit requirement of the Fire and Explosives Act. Madam President, I would like The measures now proposed concern the extension of the scope of authorisation testing, the clarification and extension of the regulation of the possibility of withdrawal of authorisations, and other changes that may strengthen control, such as restrictions on the validity of certain authorisations and the extension of the regulatory powers. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by stressing the importance of taking the problems seriously together and of trying together to resolve them in the most constructive and pragmatic way possible. I appreciate the attempts at constructiveness that have been made here from the speaker's seat and that we are not merely discussing whose fault we are where we are. Instead, we are trying to solve the task ahead of us.
i-35fe201d511bb650-595	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my speech, I had hoped that the Social Democrats, who nevertheless represent most of the government, could have explained to me: Why is it important for the government that customs does not have direct access to the permit register that exists? Why is it a good idea for customs that they have to call an official at MSB in the middle of the night to check this out? ClasGöran Carlsson stressed on at least two occasions that we must act together to bring about change. I share that view. That's my whole point. But together here it seems that it is as long as it is on the government's terms. Let me hear, ClasGöran Carlsson : Why do you think it's a bad idea?
i-35fe201d511bb650-597	Madam President, I would like I shall make it easy for myself and refer to page 13 of the committee's report. The committee welcomes the fact that a preliminary study on a national permit register to facilitate the exchange of information and cooperation between municipalities and between municipalities and MSB and the Police Authority and possibly other authorities will be carried out in 2021, i.e. this year. We will certainly have reason to come back to and perhaps resolve this issue, possibly in the way that Jörgen Berglund is calling for.
i-35fe201d511bb650-598	Madam President, I would like That is exactly what ClasGöran Carlsson says. That is exactly what the report says. My point is, why should we do another study? Why should we investigate further, if we come to the same conclusion? The situation in Sweden is unique, and it is acute. If you want to do things together and if you want to act together, you should also listen to others. Why not go to a result immediately? There will be a lot of investigations and talk that may at best lead to something. I believe that the Swedish people expect us all politicians in this House to act and take the situation seriously. I am concerned that the government does not seem to do so sufficiently.
i-35fe201d511bb650-601	Madam President, I would like The statement by Jörgen Berglund that the government and the Social Democrats do not take this seriously falls flat to the ground if we look at what has happened in recent years and the speed with which the legislation has taken place in the years we have been in government. We take our responsibility as a government party. We have said that we will do whatever it takes to break the criminal gangs. It would be nice somewhere if the Moderates took their share of the responsibility for social development. The Moderates were responsible for the Ministry of Justice during the eight years of the Alliance, until 2014. Sometimes, Madam President, in the debate it is felt that the year of zero is the 2014 election, when the Moderates lost government power, and that everything has happened after the Moderates marched out of Rosenbad. I mean, really simple isn't the story. This is a joint responsibility that more than the current government shares with others who have been responsible for our being where we are today.
i-35fe201d511bb650-604	Madam President, I would like I want to start in the practical everyday life and in how important it is for so many residents and active entrepreneurs around our country to have access to explosives. It can be about building a new villa plot or getting flood water out of a fence where mountains slow down the flow. It can be about building a new road and bringing macadam, bearings and gravel to the individual roads around the country. The availability of explosives is invaluable and clearly a prerequisite for our growth moving in the right direction. It also contributes to the living countryside and to the development of the whole country. At the same time, I see as a center party also the very gloomy development that we have had in recent years in Sweden and that we still have. According to statistics from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, in 2019 a total of 257 cases of public destruction were reported by detonation. The statistics so far for 2020 show that 215 cases were reported. If we go back to 2018, we can see that there were 160 cases. We therefore need to take steps to increase control over those who handle or deal with explosives and to help do what we can to break this often criminal activity with such disastrous consequences. Madam President, I would like I think that what the government has presented today and what it has put forward earlier in what is currently being examined in the report today is a very good way forward, and I support the committee's proposal in the report. However, I would also like to draw attention to some of the referrals received during the work on the proposal. Among other things, both MSB, SKR – Swedish Municipalities and Regions – Storstockholm Fire Defence and some individual municipalities say that the proposals risk leading to a more time-consuming process and an increased case management – i.e. increased bureaucracy – for municipalities. It also highlights the cost implications for individual entrepreneurs and how administrative burdens and administrative burdens can be increased. Nevertheless, the government, as we can see in the bill, has made the assessment that the need for an increased examination and control of these goods outweighs the workload and costs that an extended examination may entail for those concerned. In view of the many discussions that we take part in from other areas of activity in society, where we see that people experience an exercise of authority that complicates life, it is important that we also ensure that the government monitors what the practical consequences are for people who are active in this area and who need to deal with the consequences of the change on a daily basis. It is important to make the most of what is possible in order to avoid regulatory problems but also unnecessary cost increases as a consequence of the measure. As I said, progress must be vigorously broken, and this is an important step in the right direction. Many have been involved in the dialogue until decisions. The transitional period included in the proposal, from 1 August this year to 31 January 2022, is a good one. I now hope that this will also lead to concrete cases of eliminating the use of explosives by organised crime.
i-FtdmTBKP7iPg8xLZyYnxoE	Madam President, I would like For the most part, the Swedish regulations on explosives are contained in the fire and explosives legislation, in the regulation on flammable and explosive goods and in various government regulations. The Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods entered into force on 1 September 2010, and we all know here what has happened since then. Violence in criminal contexts has changed tremendously in the 21st century. The number of shootings has increased considerably, and many have taken place in public places. The increase in shootings can mainly be attributed to conflicts between criminal groups. In recent years, those involved in these conflicts have also used explosives. The number of explosions in Sweden in recent years is unprecedented in modern times. The government is working to break this trend. Within the work, the Government is now proposing amendments to the Fire-related and Explosives Act. The licensing process is proposed to be extended and the role of the Political Authority will be strengthened. At the same time, the regulation on withdrawing already granted permits is clarified and extended. In addition, some other amendments are proposed which may strengthen control, such as restrictions on the validity of certain authorisations and the extension of regulatory powers. These are all measures that will lead to fewer explosions in the future. A decent society will provide security for all. Violence must never be a part of our everyday lives. One factor of great importance in creating security is the risk to the criminals of getting caught and the recent recruitment to the gangs being strangled. Being an adult ruthlessly recruiting young people into criminal gangs must be punished much harder. It is by the fact that as few young people as possible enter the gang-criminal environment that development can be reversed in the long term. We must never forget that. Preventive work is crucial to the future. Although it is far from self-evident that violence and crime in society have increased overall, it has obviously changed shape. The shootings have increased by four five times in ten years, and more people feel insecure in residential areas. Solved criminal networks account for a larger proportion of the violence, and minors are often used as drug or weapon couriers or to deploy explosive devices. Serious gang crime creates insecurity in already vulnerable areas. It creates fragmentation and polarisation and destroys the growing-up conditions for too many children and young people. It is a development that must be broken here and now. The draft legislative amendments contained in the bill are a measure taken by the government to act against the increased violence, against blasts and against shootings. The fact that the police have tools to access gang criminals is crucial. During the term of office, the police have been given several new tools for solving crimes and for prosecutors to prove that crimes have been committed. Now another tool will be added to the toolbox. There has been a change in the way the violence between criminals is carried out. The Authority believes that if arrangements were made in the past in hidden, hidden places or indoors, violence has today moved out. To a greater extent, public spaces are used for public settlements. More and more individuals in a criminal environment act impulsively and use firearms and explosive devices in conflicts. As I said, a number of measures have already been taken. They include both punitive measures and government missions to the relevant authorities to reduce the use of explosives by criminal groupings. For example, penalties have been tightened on two occasions for serious violations of the permit requirement of the Fire and Explosives Act. The government has also commissioned several authorities such as the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service to gather together to increase society's overall ability to handle explosives and their illegal use. What has come to light in the process of reviewing the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods is that the suitability testing that is currently being carried out in connection with the permit granting is lacking. Therefore, the trial needs to be tightened up. The explosives covered by the Law on Flammable and Explosives are of very many different kinds. The presence of a type of article held without authorisation in a place where people are staying may certainly constitute a risk of human injury, whereas another type of explosive is in the same place not necessarily entailing such a risk. It is therefore not self-evident that in individual cases the place where explosives are handled plays a crucial role. The Government has previously considered that the qualification basis is misleading and that it should not be introduced. This assessment remains valid. Madam President, I would like Questions have been raised during the debate as to whether more authorities should be given assignments. I think it is very positive that there are concrete, good and committed proposals in this area. There are also Members who have pointed out that they intend to make proposals in Parliament more times. Nevertheless, I would just like to emphasise that the government has also taken very strong action. The Ministry of Finance has just recently set up an investigation to review Customs' powers. As the Member of the Social Democrats also mentioned, the document states that we are also working on a national permit register to facilitate cooperation between the municipalities and the various authorities, including the Customs Agency. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-35fe201d511bb650-627	Madam President, I would like I have said some words of praise here, but I have certain things I still want to send along. The DNA label is not very complicated to make. At a workplace, you have storage and storage facilities of different sizes. If you visit a workplace, you can easily check the DNA label and enter it in the register: Who collected it? Who bought this? Is it here? Who's responsible at the workplace for this? That control is easy to do. Consider making traceability there with DNA labeling, also on packaging! Then it is the controls that are important. In my 20 years, I've never been checked for explosives. It is also very important to do this check unannounced in advance. There won't be anything else. Then I think you should consider one thing with regard to those who are now reporting and in a criminal environment. Pettersson, Madam President, has nothing in the register: You are going to take the course! He attends the course, two weeks, maybe three, comes back as an approved supervisor and gets permission. But the rest of the people who are on the blast site may only have the purpose of stealing explosives, which is extremely easy to do. It is easy to steal explosives at a workplace today.
i-35fe201d511bb650-631	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the questions, Roger Richthoff! After all, I am the vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and I find it wonderful to hear how positive members of the Riksdag are for increased supervision and unannounced visits. I would like that to be the case also in the field I am working on. I think it is very important to remember that both in this proposal and in the legislation which, after all, is at the heart of it, there are already a lot of measures in place today for good supervision, traceability and such things. But of course good things can be improved, and it is not necessarily the case that you need to add this kind of decision here in Parliament in order to be able to implement this type of action. Nevertheless, I take a very positive view of the commitment that exists. I also heard the honourable Member say in his speech that he wanted to bring together a number of positive measures for a motion. I am also very much in favour of this.
i-35fe201d511bb650-634	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers! I'm not trying to ask a lot of complicated questions, given that I've been doing this for so long, but I'm trying to be constructive. One of the important things about labelling is precisely what I said: control. Who bought it out? Where is it bought out? How much is spent? And so on. Another part of this is about something I have done for a long time. Now you're being a little more careful, but we mixed ourselves. You mix different chemicals – I won't tell you how to do it here – in three 100-pound charges. They are harmless on their own, but mix with caution and set fire to it and you will get a very powerful detonation, Madam President. This can be mixed by itself. Now it's a little more control: Why should you buy 100 kilos of it? Why are you buying this? There is really no market for this anymore, but it is still possible to do so. An eye should therefore also be kept on the purchases made of these chemicals. I don't have to buy 50 kilos; I can buy 10 kilos. Mr Nisse over there buys 5 kilos, Madam President, and eventually you get the 50 by acting like this. It is also one thing that we should take heights for before it happens, that is to say, to monitor the purchases of chemicals that enable the production of their own explosives and that nobody knows what they are doing. This isn't easy, but you should think about it. I am happy to assist with concrete proposals in a different context. We have the same goal. We have different paths there, but we're trying to help each other to get there. As far as customs is concerned, I look forward to them receiving these, as I see it, a little positive signals from government representatives.
i-35fe201d511bb650-640	Madam President, I would like I mentioned that the Ministry of Finance has set up an investigation to review Customs' powers and that there are also proposals for a permit register. So that work is under preparation and ongoing. I think it is extremely important to remember that all the issues and all the matters we prepare here in the Swedish Parliament must be dealt with properly. On these issues, I do not see that we have very different views, but there are a number of good ideas that need to be dealt with properly, and the government is working on it. I would like to thank you for the question.
i-35fe201d511bb650-643	Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, I had hoped that we would receive a response from the government parties regarding the possibility for customs to check who is authorised or not. I tried one of the government parties, the Social Democrats, but unfortunately I did not get an answer without a demonstration in a social democratic parade, namely to blame the alliance government. We're used to hearing that. But I'm making another attempt, now with the other government partner, the Green Party. I would like to hear a little more about this. Now I heard Maria Gardfjell talk about the fact that Finance has set up an investigation and so on, but I know that there is not in any investigation directive that this should also happen. That's what I mean by this being important. It should be borne in mind, Madam President, that the Customs Service itself has also said that this would be a good idea. I would like to hear from the Green Party and Maria Gardfjell why we are not just doing this and saying yes to it.
i-35fe201d511bb650-647	Madam President, I would like I would really like to thank Jörgen Berglund for his commitment to this issue. I have to say, however, that I thought our colleague from the Social Democrats expressed a very good response in which he highlighted what is in the document that we are debating here today. It shows that a permit register is needed, that you work with it and that the authorities, including MSB, but also the other authorities, including Customs, who work with this need to have access to a national permit register. I think that question is really going on. The fact that responsibility for Customs is under the Ministry of Finance and not under the Ministry of Defence may be a reason to have to deal with matters concerning Customs in special order. Since the Customs Agency has now also proposed that this is something that we want to improve, I am absolutely convinced that the government will catch up with this issue in a good way. There's absolutely nothing to disagree about in this. I note one thing, Madam President, and that is one that there is very strong support for this proposal and for these proposals. I feel that we are also very much in agreement that we must counter the crime that exists and the criminality in which more use is made of explosives. Madam President, I would like I very much look forward to working even more closely with the opposition on these issues. There is no reason to believe that the government is not on its toes and on these issues.
i-35fe201d511bb650-651	Madam President, I would like I really hope Maria Gardfjell is right. What concerns me is that we know that investigations take time and that it is fairly tightly regulated when it comes to access to different registers. We have seen in many other respects that it can be stopped. I'm most worried about that, and I hope Maria Gardfjell is right. Maria Gardfjell said that this is not her main area, but the Environment and Agriculture Committee. I guess I'll just have to pay tribute to Maria Gardfjell and say that I think she's done pretty well. Then she made a parable and said that there the Moderates, as I understood it, do not usually want so much supervision and permission. I'm really behind that, I have to say. It is about hard-working farmers. Here we are talking about potential criminals. One last thing I would like to send with Maria Gardfjell is that unlike the Swedish Democrats, I do not think it is at all a good idea to DNA-label explosives in Sweden for the simple reason that it is an EU-harmonised area. Should Swedish companies be forced to label their explosives as we sell from here, it would be a competitive disadvantage for Swedish companies, and that would be unfortunate.
i-35fe201d511bb650-654	Madam President, I would like I'd like to apologize for being vague. What I meant was that increased traceability is always good. That it would be precisely the proposal of the Swedish democrats that would be the basis for this, I do not think I have quite expressed it. Then I'll have to correct it in such cases, because it wasn't my intention. Traceability is good, and there are also tools for it within the regulations that we have today. That is what I said to the Swedish Democrats. I think it is extremely important to remember that when it comes to these issues, we are extremely much in agreement. I also think there is a great reason to look further at how supervision can be improved. The fact is that, even in the field of agriculture, there are a great many substances which, unfortunately, can be used and abused by criminals. I would like to say that supervision in this area too is extremely important.
