i-6dac03c742168037-2	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the report of the Committee on Justice on terrorism, and I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 15. I would say that all democrats take the work against terror, violent extremism and radicalisation very seriously. So also in this House. The separatist, violent and undemocratic ideologies must be combated. Our values are not under negotiation in this fight. Rather, they are the very reason why we are fighting. Madam President, I would like The Government's national strategy against terrorism should be the starting point for Sweden's long-term work in this area, both nationally and internationally. The aim is to create a clear structure for the work needed to combat terrorist crime. The strategy stresses the importance of cooperation and a clear follow-up to the work being done. The work is divided into three areas: preventing, preventing and making it more difficult. In addition to the national strategy, the latest cross-block agreement against terrorism forms the basis for political work forward. A particular focus of the national strategy is on prevention, and prevention has also been developed and given a permanent structure. A national centre against violent extremism, CVE, was established in 2018. CVE is developing knowledge-based and cross-sectoral efforts to prevent violent extremism at national, regional and local level, including by providing needs-oriented support to local actors. Several authorities have since 2016 been tasked with developing knowledge and guidance, such as the Prison Service, the National Board of Health and Welfare, the National Board of Institutional Affairs and the National Board of Education. These government missions have helped authorities and municipalities to be better equipped today to work, both individually and with the support of CVE, to prevent violent extremism. In order to further develop efforts to individuals who are involved in violent extremism or who are convicted of various crimes, the Prison Service, the Police Authority, the State Department Board and the National Board of Health and Welfare have completed a mission on a national defector program for interventions to individuals who want to leave criminal or violent environments. This proposal is now being prepared within the Government Office. Madam President, I would like The fight against terrorism is the responsibility of all of us. Most of the points in the cross-border agreement have been implemented. Much has been done, and much is going on. The Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Police Authority have been given strong resources reinforcements and also the task of developing their collaboration. It has become easier for the security police, military intelligence Must and FRA to share information with each other, and easier for the police to set up surveillance cameras. The new coercive device classified data reading entered into force on 1 April 2020. New criminalisations have been introduced in the form of, among other things, the new penal provision on the association of a terrorist organisation and extension of the penal provisions on training, travel and financing linked to terrorism. The Government prepares proposals from the investigation that has reviewed the whole of the criminal law on terrorism and among other things proposed several penalties. We also believe that it is urgent to criminalise participation in a terrorist organisation. The government has therefore mandated a parliamentary committee to investigate the possibility of restricting the constitutionally protected freedom of association in relation to terrorist organisations. The Committee proposes a change at constitutional level allowing Parliament to decide on legislation restricting the freedom of association of associations engaged in or supporting terrorism, such as a so-called participatory crime. The proposed amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2023. Referral is ongoing. The proposal is scheduled for this autumn. The Government prepares proposals from the report A more effective framework for foreign affairs with security aspects, proposing a new law that makes it easier to expel qualified security threats and increased penalties for expelled persons who defy the return ban to Sweden or violate the notification obligation. A large number of measures have been taken against money laundering and terrorist financing, including in the context of the EU Money Laundering Directive. Madam President, I would like The importance of international cooperation in law enforcement has not least been seen in the last week. Cooperation within the EU is of the utmost importance also in the field of terrorism. Extensive work is under way to strengthen the exchange of information and operational cooperation between responsible national authorities. Europol and Eurojust play important roles in providing effective channels for the rapid exchange of information on suspected terrorists. EU cooperation is also crucial for combating cybercrime, terrorist-related content online and crime using new technologies. Illegal terrorist content disseminated through host service providers has contributed to the terrorist offences committed in recent years, as well as the radicalisation and recruitment of terrorist groups. We welcome the regulation on preventing the online dissemination of terrorist content decided on 28 April. Illegal terrorist content should not occur online, and it must be vigorously combated. Madam President, I would like One of the announcements proposed by the committee concerns sanctions in the Security Act. As can be seen from the documents, the report adds to the new act on protection that the supervisory authority may, in certain cases, decide to impose a penalty fee on an operator who is in breach of the provisions of the law. A bill is announced to be submitted to the Riksdag in spring 2021. So we think so, and in other words a bill is on its way. In our view, therefore, there is no reason for Parliament to take any initiative in this matter. Finally, Madam President, terrorism is not a new concept or a new phenomenon. Terrorism is not static. It has changed over time from the reign of terror of the French Revolution, to airplane creations and kidnappings in the 1970s and to today's suicide bombers. Having said that, it is extremely important that we, as legislators, constantly evaluate and, if necessary, also change our legislation so that it also meets the terrorist of the future with the full power of open society.
i-6dac03c742168037-19	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on Terrorism, which deals with a large number of motions from the general period of exercise. The committee proposes that the Riksdag make five announcements to the Government. In addition, we have Moderates eight reservations. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6 on the criminalisation of participation in other violent organisations. Over the last few decades, Europe has suffered a long series of very serious terrorist acts. It has mainly been Islamist-motivated terrorism, but there have also been attacks with, for example, far-right agendas. We all remember the attacks in Paris in 2015 and the attacks in Oslo and at Utøya in 2011. In recent years, we have also seen several attacks in France, Austria and Germany, among others. After the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan four years ago, it became clear that the threat from terrorism is real also in Sweden. Sweden has, for a number of years, an increased level of terrorist threats. According to the National Centre for Threat Assessment, there are individuals, both in Sweden and abroad, who regard terrorist attacks on targets in Sweden as legitimate and who have both intention and ability to carry out them. Daish's ability to lead and coordinate terrorist attacks in the Western world has weakened, but it is likely that they or other actors will try to restore this capability. In parallel, there has also been a gradual growth of the violent Islamic environment in Sweden, which is mainly concentrated in socially vulnerable areas in larger and medium-sized cities. Historically, most attacks carried out in Europe have been carried out by people who have not trained or fought with violent groups abroad. The National Center for Terrorist Threat Assessment therefore considers that if an Islamic-motivated terrorist attack is carried out, it is likely to be carried out by a solitary perpetrator or by a small group using accessible means. We Moderates have contributed to two agreements against terrorism, 2015 and 2017 respectively. We have agreed across party boundaries on important initiatives to strengthen Sweden's security. Based on these, some measures have been taken by the government, but much remains to be done to protect Sweden against terrorism. The committee notes, among other things, that the level of penalties for certain offences in the field of terrorism appears to be unreasonably low. The terrorist investigation proposed in its final report, which came in 2019, more stringent penalties for several terrorist offences. However, we see that the proposed tightening up is not enough. For example, the Security Service states in its referral to the investigation that the proposed tightening up of the maximum penalty for offences of the standard grade will not lead to any tightening up of the penalty. The Swedish Security Service also notes that although the investigation's proposal is being implemented, Sweden will still have relatively low penalties for terrorist crime in a European perspective and that there is a risk that Sweden may appear to be a safe haven for terrorists. The government therefore needs to take the initiative for further tightening of the scale of penalties for terrorist crime, and the committee therefore proposes a declaration to the government on this. Madam President, I would like The law on special foreign control has been discussed several times in this House, and it has long been the subject of severe criticism. The Security Service has also pointed out in a special submission to the Government that the legislation is unclear, difficult to interpret and difficult to read. The recent shortcomings of the law have become clear as foreign citizens who are deemed to be qualified security threats are released because of obstacles to the execution of the expulsions. People who have been assessed by both the Government, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Migration Agency as posing serious threats to Sweden's security can thus, in principle, move freely in Swedish society. This is a very unfortunate consequence to which many in Sweden, quite rightly, have reacted strongly negatively. A fundamental task for each state is to protect its own citizens. In connection with the so-called "Terrorist Agreement" in 2017, the government committed itself to reviewing the Special Alien Control Act, but it took the government more than a year to set up the investigation that was a necessary prerequisite for going to the finish with it. Quite exactly a year ago, the investigation was submitted A more effective regulatory framework for foreign affairs with security aspects. It took three years from the government in the Terrorist Agreement promised to review the law until the investigation came back. Now another year has passed, and the government has indeed announced a bill in the near future. But it remains to be seen when it comes and what it will contain. Madam President, I would like The starting point for the Moderates is that foreign citizens who pose threats to Sweden's security should leave the country. If, for various reasons, this is not possible, these persons need to be kept in custody or monitored in a safe manner. That is not possible today. The study has carried out a thorough review of the legislation and is also proposing a number of tightening ups, but we see that it is not enough. The investigation did not focus on the type of situations where expulsions cannot be carried out, nor was it included in the investigation's directive. The committee therefore calls once again for the government to set up a new investigation to highlight how the type of situation where enforcement barriers exist can be dealt with more satisfactorily than today.
i-Wgzw5Z447iYSWoiTHfzaFt	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 14 on enforcement barriers in the case of expulsions of persons in the event of terrorist threats. Terrorism has become one of Sweden's greatest threats, and it has become one of the most explosive of the growth of violent Islamist extremism. In less than 20 years, the number of violent Islamist extremists in our country has increased from a hundred to a few thousand individuals who are judged by the Security Service to have both the will and the ability to commit or contribute to terrorist attacks. Madam President, I would like We could have avoided this. But both red-green governments and Reinfeldt's governments have chosen to pay tribute to all that immigration from Islamic-sympathetic countries has meant. They have sung in electoral movements to build more mosques in our country, where millions of dollars of tax money have been channelled to finance segregation and Islamist extremism. It is not a beautiful story, Madam President, that we are now forced to live with. Sweden naturally stands out in both the world and Europe when it comes to violent Islamist extremism. Today, from the centre of the Centre Party and parties to the left, it is still completely blinded, or in cold blood indifferent, as to the threat of terror that they continue to build into our country with their policies. The worst terrorist murderers of our time, the so-called Swedish IS terrorists, have been able to travel to, participate in and murder for the Islamic State through the work of the government without being hit by any new criminalisation or punishment on the part of Sweden. When other countries have fought hard against their Islamists, the Center Party-supported Social Democratic Government has rolled out the red carpet for the worst terrorist murderers of our time. They are now welcomed home to Sweden from Kurdish-controlled camps when the caliphate has fallen. It is likely that none of them will face any criminal liability, and for those who may do so, short penalties await. And, Madam President, certainly none of them will lose their Swedish citizenship, and no one will certainly be expelled from our country. We can't just let this pass. This must have consequences – political consequences. Are you going to accept, as a voter, that elected decision-makers let in terrorist murderers who declared war on our civilization, declared war on our people, declared war on our way of life and applauded the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan here in Stockholm? Can you accept, as a voter, that elected decision-makers have rolled out the red carpet for these terror killers? Can you accept that elected decision-makers force you to pay taxes for the livelihood of Islamic state terror-slayers in our country? The Swedish betrayal in the fight against the Islamic State will rightly be attributed in history to all parties that supported the Social Democratic Government. All the votes for these parties in the future will mean acceptance of Europe's most IS-friendly government. Madam President, I hope that none of us will have our consciences after the next parliamentary elections. Sweden, like other countries, must cut citizenship and expose terrorist threats at a rate that we have never seen before. We must begin to examine the grounds for obstacles to enforcement that prevent expulsions, make new assessments in general in the case of expulsions and begin to consider Sweden's safety as an aspect of expulsions. Today, the government does not take Swedish life and Swedish security into account when the threat of terrorism is to be expelled. At the least possible risk that terrorists will face unwarranted treatment in a recipient country, our government retains the threat of terror in our country. Madam President, I would like The time for excuses not to deport terrorist threats must be over. The Swedish Democrats have meant and will guarantee that we will go further than ever to expel as many criminal foreigners as possible and, of course, those who pose a threat of terror to Swedish lives and to Sweden's security. Sweden can once again become a safe country, but it requires that we all examine ourselves and choose the right government in the next election. Cut citizenship! Put terror threat in closed custody! Expel them for life from our country! The fact that this encounters opposition from a center-party-supported Social-Democratic government is beyond my comprehension.
i-6dac03c742168037-47	Madam President, I would like Legislation is a blunter instrument than many people think. The laws are not remote controls that can determine how people act, and the open society has safety flaws against those who want society to hurt. Nevertheless, we must do all we can to protect ourselves from the evil that threatens us through violent extremism and terrorism. We must work preventively to close practical safety gaps where they exist. It can be about how we plan our cities and how we through urban construction and street environments increase safety. It can be about how we work with people who are at risk of radicalisation and how we can reverse a potentially dangerous development before it is too late. It is also a question of punishing those who commit indiscriminate violent crimes hard – not because it is expected to deter a motivated terrorist from committing acts, but because we are so serious about the vile crimes involved. When we discuss these issues, we easily get into discussions about how we deal with third-country nationals who pose security risks in Sweden – not infrequently, or perhaps almost always, with Islamic pretences. If such a person has received an expulsion decision but is at risk of torture or death penalty if the expulsion is carried out, such a decision cannot be made. This is something that the European Convention on Human Rights prohibits, and it is perhaps also some kind of basic decency. Of course, the latter can differ. Madam President, I would like There are a lot of simplifications in this debate. Some claim that most things can be solved with so-called diplomatic guarantees. It should be remembered that these are guarantees sought by regimes in countries that in most cases are deeply unreliable and undemocratic. A large number of examples over the years have shown how little it is possible to rely on diplomatic guarantees. Others believe that it is only to lock up the people we believe are dangerous indefinitely. Please note that these are people who we believe are dangerous but who have not necessarily committed any crime – at least not yet. We can't just lock people up without a legal basis. However, Madam President, we may well create such a basis, a legal and proportionate basis which will in some way increase protection. A common modus operandi for those who plan to commit a terrorist act is to go underground some time before the deed, in order not to risk being caught before you have been able to do your deed. If we make a breach of the obligation to notify, which often exists in such cases, an independent basis for detention, we make it more difficult for those who intend to commit atrocities, and we increase security in Sweden. An additional way is to extend the time someone may be detained while awaiting expulsion. Together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, we want Swedish rules in this area to harmonize with European guidelines, and we want violations of the obligation to report to be the basis for detention. To be honest, how to oppose this is a little hard to understand. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 12 on breaches of the obligation to notify. Madam President, I would like It is easy to stare blindly at a certain type of terrorist threat. We have seen and been horrified in recent years by the violent Islamism and the bottomless evil that IS or Daish gladly boasts. But the protection of society must be equipped to face all kinds of violent extremism and terrorist threats. One area we had hardly heard of when we were working on the motions we are debating in this report is so-called eco-fascism, that is, right-wing animal justice. The crime in Christchurch, New Zealand, where 51 people in two mosques were murdered, was committed by a man who describes himself precisely as an eco-fascist and a green nationalist. Shortly thereafter, 21 people were shot dead in El Paso, Texas, U.S.A., even there with ecofascist motives. The killer was angry with the big business, which he meant is a predatory pursuit of nature. Somehow, with his perverted logic, he wanted to reduce the population and have an ethnically white United States. In Sweden, too, this type of madness occurs. Earlier this year, two young men were convicted of having set a fire on a mink farm in Sölvesborg. The court ruled that it was precisely eco-fascism, and the convicted are on picture where they pose in SS uniform. Many animal-responsive farmers also testify to an increasing vulnerability with threats, harassment and violations from animal rights activists who are moving further and further in their activities. I almost dare not finish the thought that there is a growing breadth below the so far few judgments that we have seen. This is something that we must be very careful about and develop new, powerful proposals to counter.
i-6dac03c742168037-59	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is, unfortunately, a constant threat in today's world. Terrifying examples of terrorism are constantly occurring. It is not only far away from our country that it is happening; we see it happening in Europe too through current, terrible deeds. Last year we saw a teacher executed on a street in France. The terrorist attacks in Vienna and Paris show that violent acts can take place in the midst of European cities. Säpo also notes that the combined terrorist threat to Sweden remains at an elevated level. Over the years since the terrible deed of 2017 at Drottninggatan, we have seen heavily armed police patrol Stockholm streets. The threat of terrorism persists in our society. In this society, people must feel confident that openness and human rights are respected, as are the fundamental values of democracy. No one should have to feel the fear of expressing their opinion or of participating in political or religious meetings. During the year, however, we have seen several examples of those forces that want something other than to protect transparency and human rights, forces that want to undermine democracy. Swedish jihadists have played an active role in Islamic State terror activities – acts of terrorism that have taken place elsewhere in Europe and also acts of terrorism in our own country. There are also a large number of people who, according to Säpo, have been radicalized but not gone to Syria, and there are a large number of domestic violent extremists within the right- and left-wing environment. Not all of these are prepared to commit terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, but they are individuals who can support, raise money, recruit and assist logistics in various ways. This is extremely serious, and we see the threats growing. Averting terrorist threats is about safeguarding the state's absolute core mission over others: the lives and security of its citizens. Sweden must have a strong defence against these threats. Terrorism threatens international peace and security, national security and our fundamental rights and freedoms. All in all, we Christian Democrats believe that efforts to prevent terrorism need to be further strengthened. Madam President, I would like Today's report brings together the majority of the committee around five announcements. This involves, among other things, cooperation between authorities. We believe that the Police Authority, the Customs Agency and the Enforcement Authority should be given a mandate to cooperate and carry out joint controls to combat terrorism and crime. On March 2020, new laws entered into force in Sweden that entail criminal liability for certain associations with terrorist organisations. This is a partial victory for the Christian Democrats, among others, as we have been pushing for years the issue of criminalising relations with, participation in and support for racist terror-stamped and criminal organisations. It was a demand from us that led to this being included in the terrorist agreement that we and other parties concluded with the government in 2017. Unfortunately, the problems are not solved with the laws that finally came into force. The Christian Democrats believe that the law has a far too narrow definition. This view is shared by the Swedish Security Service, which stated in its referral that it is important for the association to be given a wider definition. We believe that it should be made clear that no association or assistance to terrorist organisations should be tolerated in Sweden. For far too long we have had a far too permissive attitude towards those who fundamentally threaten our society. Any association with terrorist organisations needs to be criminalised. Other European countries have taken decisions on this a long time ago. Unfortunately, the government that we have managed to achieve at the moment has not yet been able to get there. It is therefore necessary for Parliament to again make an announcement on this. Madam President, I would like The committee also believes that the government should act in relation to the Security Act. In order to create greater weight in legislation, it also needs to include the possibility of taking action against those who violate the rules. Work must also be started to deal with situations where enforcement barriers exist. Consideration must be given to how situations in which persons who pose security threats and cannot be expelled should be dealt with and how society should be able to protect itself against such persons within the framework of the international conventions in force. We Christian Democrats also believe that the penalty for dealing with terrorist organisations must be tightened up. We believe that the current levels of penalties for certain offences in the field of terrorism appear to be unreasonably low. The punishment scales cannot be said to reflect the seriousness of the crimes. Increased levels of penalties would also increase the conditions for using secret coercive measures and thus improve the conditions for resolving the crimes. Against this background, a tightening of the scale of penalties for terrorist crime must take place as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have been involved in two cross-block agreements with the government on counter-terrorism measures. Both times we have pushed through a democratic requirement to receive grants so that no public contribution is made to extremist organisations. After the agreement in 2017, it took almost a year for the government to set up the investigation The democratic conditions in government grants. The investigator submitted his report in June 2019. Since then, the investigation has been on the table, but there is still no proposal or legislative referral – almost five years after a democracy criterion for grants was promised in the Terrorist Agreement. Parallel societies in Sweden are fattened by state and municipal subsidies that are exploited by both criminals and extremists, not infrequently in cooperation. It is high time the law changed. In their yearbook for 2020, the Swedish Security Service also highlights the problems and states that in their operational work they see that there are individuals associated with violent extremism who are active in organisations that receive public funds. Säpo's Yearbook states that the state and municipalities are not supposed to finance activities that do not meet the conditions of democracy, the conditions of democracy must mean something. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like A significant problem that is expected to grow in the future is that foreign power is trying to influence Sweden. What is most discussed are various types of Russian disinformation campaigns and psychological warfare. What is discussed less, however, is the wave of foreign funding of religious foundations and mosques that comes either directly from foreign states or from various actors with a close connection to such a state. There are states, foundations, organisations and others who have an interest in destabilising Sweden and undermining Swedish democracy. It is a serious threat that affects us in the long term. Sweden must act. The Christian Democrats propose a ban on foreign extremists being allowed to finance organisations, foundations, religious communities and political groupings in Sweden. Of course, such a ban needs to be thoroughly investigated. One of the starting points is the consolidated list of sanctions of the United Nations Security Council, but it also needs to be supplemented in all likelihood by an assessment by the Security Service, Must and the Police Authority. On this basis, I would like to endorse reservation 21. Madam President, I would like Terrorism will not overthrow our society, but it can do much harm. As today's debate shows, much more needs to be done to stop the emergence and threats of terrorism than has been done so far during the time of the S-government in power. We Christian Democrats support the announcements proposed by the majority of the committee and, of course, by the Christian Democrats themselves, but in this debate, as I said earlier, I am only in favour of reservation 21.
i-6dac03c742168037-82	Madam President, I would like This is an extremely important debate. Thank you to all of you who have participated in it, I would like to say. Terrorism is a fundamental threat to liberal democracy. Whether it is a terrorist crime committed by a left-wing terrorist, a right-wing terrorist, an eco-fascist, an Islamist or whatever it may be, they have in common that terrorists and terrorism are, by their very nature, opposed to the very essence of what we are trying to build in this country, that is, liberal democracy. We respect human rights and build stability in agreement with each other rather than stepping up conflicts and do not use violence as a method, but instead respect each other's rights and democracy. Terrorism is also different from other policies in that the individual cannot do much at all. As far as housing policy is concerned, there is much that the state should do, but it can also be said that the individual should take greater responsibility, for example, to save more himself. As far as education policy is concerned, there is much the state can and should do, but it is also a responsibility for the individual to make an effort in school. As far as environmental policy is concerned, there is a responsibility not to throw plastic into nature itself, although there is much that the state should do. But terrorism, by its very nature, is entirely the task of the state. It is a fundamental task of liberal democracy and of a state to protect its people from terrorism and to protect democracy from terrorists, no matter where they come from – right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism, Islamism, eco-fascism or anything else. Madam President, I would like I would like to note that in committee we are making several important announcements calling on the Socialist-led government to actually act. A lot of the announcements can be found in and come from the motion requests put forward by the Liberals. I can say, therefore, that I am pleased with the support that the committee has given much of the liberal policy that we have put forward. Those of us who care about these issues should probably also be critical of the fact that Sweden has not acted sufficiently, quickly enough – with enough so-called sense of urgency. You shouldn't speak English in this Chamber. But that's a term, which is why I think you have to say it. It is about a feeling, an understanding of the seriousness and how important it is that something happens soon. For example, in the case of returning terrorists, the Liberals have, since 2016, – long before this debate filled the Agenda studio or all of Sweden's editorial writers' texts in the newspapers – demanded that all returnees be immediately and automatically investigated for crime. There are also clear calls from the Swedish parliament to the government to act much more forcefully than they have actually done. I may feel that the government sometimes sounds a little presumptuous and content. These have been clear demands from the Swedish parliament, which has pushed the government ahead of it. But we haven't come all the way. The government has still been too slow. We believe that there is still a very great need to strengthen the regulatory framework and to ensure that the management of returns is much more satisfactory. No one should be able to escape prosecution. Anyone who has in any way participated must be prosecuted. Madam President, I would like When we talk about terrorism, it is easy to slip into rhetoric, and it is easy for people to believe that terrorism is something that comes from outside. It's not always like that. On the contrary, it is increasingly the case that terrorism also comes from within our country. We need tougher legislation and a clearer line that is common to all of Sweden's parties also against terrorism that comes from within, from our own country. There is a reservation, reservation 22, which I would like to endorse. It is about precisely the agreement on terrorism made by the various parties in the Swedish Parliament. We must implement all the points on which we have agreed. We must not sit back so slowly and wait for things to happen. This must happen now. The agreement was concluded in 2015 and 2017. There are a number of essential points on which we need to put a lot of gunpowder in order to tighten things up. For example, public contributions should never, under any circumstances, be able to go to non-democratic organisations or organisations that counteract democracy. We need to control that much better, more rigorously and with tougher regulations than today. Madam President, I would like Before I was in Parliament, I was chairman of the Liberal Youth League. I know very well how the reviews have been done in the past. I think that one misses a lot if reviews of democracy focus mostly on what it says in the statutes, is pre-announced impact on the business or it involves discussing, for example, the gender balance of an officially elected board. I understand it's not just what you do. But there has been such an attitude that you can read on a paper whether an organisation is democratic or works for democracy or not. That is not the case. Of course, it is totally unacceptable that a single crown should go to any activity which in some way opposes democracy, liberal democracy based on human rights, at its core. It takes national decisions, a national power of action, to overcome this. You can't make different assessments here and there in the country. Combating terrorism and protecting democracy is a national commitment and not something that one can drop wind by wave. Of course, we are calling for it to be stopped at local and regional level too, but the state must go ahead and set the standard. Madam President, I would like I mentioned domestic extremism and radicalisation, not least in our vulnerable areas. To continue on the anecdotic track I can tell you that I myself lived in Tensta outside Stockholm for six years. When I grew up on Södermalm, I never saw anyone handing out flyers with the message that you could not go and vote because it was against a religion. However, it is found in some of our vulnerable suburbs. The basis is social vulnerability. The major socio-economic problems are a breeding ground for extremism. We must ensure that people are removed from the structures underlying extremism. It is about strengthening both school and education. It is about ensuring that people have tools from the start, about combating unemployment and overcrowding. It is about ensuring that integration works and that there is a very stable, good and thorough core work also in school and preschool. In this area, the Liberals have several tough proposals. Madam President, I would like As I said, I would like to endorse our reservation number 22.
i-6dac03c742168037-98	Madam President, I would like This has been an interesting and exciting task to work with. I have never seen so many people wanting to speak, to have views and to make proposals while the issue has been almost invisible in the press, at least in the large publications that reach the general public. This applies to an EU directive on unfair trade practices in the agricultural and food sector, which the EU has been working on for quite some time. Since 2009, the EU has come up with various proposals and solutions on how to achieve good business practice, common sense and fair treatment in the food chain. Legislation for this already exists in a majority of EU Member States, but not in Sweden. Governments of different colors have refrained from introducing such regulations. Madam President, I would like The aim of the directive is to protect little from great. That's a good purpose. However, it is important that the aim of the proposal is properly implemented. The Government's proposal introduces a ban on buyers with a turnover of over 20 million to use certain unfair trading practices against suppliers and producers. Small buyers with a weaker market position, such as restaurants with less than 20 million turnover, are excluded. So a floor is formed. The Left Party welcomes new legislation that prevents unfair trading practices in the purchase of agricultural and food products. We think that the floor that excludes, for example, the small neighborhood restaurants is good. The lack of a level playing field for sales and purchases in the food sector is likely to have a negative impact on farmers, small businesses and consumers alike. As regards trade in food, there are large giants, both among producers and in the grocery trade. Ica, Coop and Axfood are major players who dominate when it comes to the retail chains where we buy our groceries. Arla, Nestlé and Ugglarps are examples of large groups on the producer side. It's giants with billions of turnovers that dominate. It is possible to raise percentage figures on market shares, but with today's legislation companies have managed to grow really large on both the producer and the buyer sides. Madam President, I would like When the EU directive is now to be implemented in Sweden, the EU has proposed a step model in which companies will be divided into different trades depending on their turnover. Producers with less turnover than buyers should be protected by the new legislation. According to the EU proposal, for example, a producer with a turnover of 150 million is protected against a buyer with a turnover of 500 million but not against a buyer with a turnover of 50 million. There are several steps in the proposal, and there have been criticisms that it would be difficult to apply and that it is difficult to know which rules apply to which company. The government has taken this on board in its proposal, and we agree. In order for the original aim of protecting small against large to have a proper impact, we want there to be a ceiling on who should be protected by the legislation. We do not think it reasonable that the largest giants, such as Coca-Cola, should be protected by the legislation against a small trader with a turnover of 25 million. Freedom to sign or not to sign contracts does not disappear. Do large international companies really need protection from a country store or a hotel with a restaurant? Madam President, I would like The Left Party proposes that the ceiling should apply to all companies with a turnover of more than 3 1⁄2 billion. They should therefore not be protected by the regulation of the EU directive. There are a small number of companies benefiting from this derogation, and the EU highlights, among other things, that unfair trading practices are considered to be a problem especially for SMEs in the agricultural and food chain. Most people can probably agree that companies such as Coca-Cola and Nestlé cannot be included in this group. In an opinion delivered by the Competition Authority, one can read the following: a legislative extension [as proposed by the investigation] to all suppliers would allow even for very large suppliers to invoke the rules even vis-à-vis significantly smaller buyers, which is not in accordance with the objective of the Directive. The Competition Authority considers that such an extension of the scope, which means that the regulatory framework may have a different effect from that envisaged in the Directive, needs further consideration. Among other things, it should be considered whether there are convincing reasons for achieving a general shift in market power in the value chain and what impact it would have on consumers. ..................................................... The method of having a ceiling that exempts the largest groups from the protective regulation is not unique to our proposal. In Finland, a system has been constructed with a ceiling excluding the largest suppliers with a turnover of more than 3 1⁄2 billion, provided that the buyer has a lower turnover. In Germany, a proposal is under consideration for a ceiling excluding the largest giants. Lithuania is also working according to the model with a roof. Madam President, I would like It is clear that this has been a difficult issue and that it has not been obvious how the design would be in Sweden. During the process in the EU, Sweden's position has been critical of the directive. This was something that would be voluntary or corrected with national solutions where needed. Sweden has therefore opposed what is now being introduced. Then it turned to trying to get as close to the Commission's proposal as possible. When the proposal reached the committee's table, it was with an over-implementing of the EU directive. The stairway model was removed, the roof disappeared and the floor was left for companies with a turnover of less than 20 million. Four parties were exercising to include the 31⁄2 billion ceiling which would exempt the largest companies from the protection of regulation, which would give a majority in favour of such a proposal. But only a few days later, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats – trip, stair, roll – had turned and no longer wanted to run their movements. What it was because they changed their mind after a few days, I can't answer. However, it indicates that the position on the matter has not been obvious and simple for all parties. In particular, I assume that they have received at least as much information and had at least as many meetings with stakeholders as we have. Now, instead, there is an over-implementing of the directive, which a lot of parties tend to resent. Quite a few times I have heard that over-implementing is not good and that Europe should not overrule what is happening in the various countries. But that's how it's come to be here. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-6dac03c742168037-115	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report as a whole. Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on the prohibition of unfair trade practices in the purchase of agricultural and food products, including abbreviated UTP directive. It is a matter that we have turned and turned around in the spring. There have been many dialogues, questions and answers before we have managed to make a good landing on this still so important issue. I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the Bureau of the Committee, the Registry and the rapporteur, Nina Liljeqvist, who have all made sure that we have the time for the matter, the opportunity to meet the relevant actors and authorities and, finally, a very well-written report. Many thanks also to everyone else who has asked and answered our many questions during the process. The proposed new law concerns the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive on unfair trading practices between undertakings in the agricultural and food chain. The legislative proposal aims to protect suppliers of agricultural and food products against certain unfair trading practices. The new law prohibits buyers with an annual turnover of more than EUR 2 million from using certain trading methods against suppliers. The proposal also contains provisions on supervision and sanctions for those who violate the prohibitions on unfair trading practices. The Government's legislative proposal also contains a proposal to amend the Public Access and Confidentiality Act. In committee, we have also agreed on a national evaluation of the implementation of the directive. It will specifically examine the impact of the new regulatory framework on the actors in the Swedish market. The new law and legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 November this year, and the Swedish Competition Authority has previously been appointed the supervisory authority responsible. The government has designed a regulatory framework that exempts smaller companies, which also includes most restaurant companies across the country that now under the coronapandemine and currently have a strained situation. The law must thus protect suppliers in the food chain from unfair commercial practices and thereby protect the weaker party in the purchase of agricultural and food products. Madam President, I would like New rules on unfair trading practices in the food chain have been discussed at EU level since 2009, and a Directive was adopted in April 2019. As I said earlier, the aim of the directive is to strengthen the weak actors in the food chain against unfair trading practices. It is usually agricultural companies and food producers with a weaker negotiating power. The regulation aims to improve the conditions for strengthening Sweden's primary production and processing industry and increase the profitability of companies operating in the agricultural and food chain. Even before the proposal for a directive was presented, a majority of EU Member States had their own specific national legislation against unfair trading practices. However, the rules of the Member States are very different from those of each other. At EU level, this differentiation was considered likely to disrupt trade in the internal market. Sweden is one of eight Member States that lack specific legislation here. However, there are Swedish rules that in different ways regulate the possibility of using different trading methods in the agricultural and food chain, including in competition and marketing law and civil law. However, unlike the directive, these regulations are general and do not focus on the specific sector to which the directive applies. Madam President, I would like There has been a lot of discussion about whether or not an upper limit should also be introduced. An upper turnover ceiling of EUR 350 million would risk having a very large impact on the entire Swedish food market. A ceiling of EUR 350 million would exclude nearly 60% of turnover in the Swedish food industry. These are to a large extent agricultural cooperatives, companies that are large buyers from primary producers and companies with a strong presence on our Swedish market. Swedish primary production would risk being hit very hard. Between 50 and 80 per cent of the farmers' provision, depending on the sector, is made to companies that would be excluded. In a highly competitive market, this risks leading to additional pressure on farmers' prices. It would have quite the opposite effect to what is needed to achieve our goals in the Swedish Food Strategy. This proposal on UTP is an important part of the implementation of the food strategy and in reducing vulnerability, as it aims to offset the imbalances in the food chain between the producer and the grocery trade. Increasing the profitability of food production is an important factor in increasing investment capacity, reducing vulnerability and being able to switch to sustainable agriculture. It is a necessity for us to achieve the goals of the food strategy, which Parliament has decided in broad agreement. Madam President, I would like The proposal is a straight and simple implementation of the EU's UTP Directive with only a lower amount limit. This means both avoiding distortions and making this easy to apply to both sellers and buyers. The proposal therefore constitutes the most reasonable application and is not an over-implementment, but the opposite. We can now ensure that Swedish legislation is implemented in a way that ensures the intentions of the directive, namely that trade practices that are considered unacceptable in other markets are also prohibited in the food chain. A well-functioning and transparent market with profitable companies at all stages is crucial for a wide range of products and the development of new products. This is a well-balanced legislative proposal that is in line with the national food strategy's objective of increasing the production and competitiveness of our food businesses.
i-6dac03c742168037-132	Madam President, I would like Just as has been raised here in the speaker's chair earlier today, it is probably rare for us to deal with issues that have been involved in so many different ways that the issue of the UTP directive has done this spring. There are an incredible number of organisations from different sides who have heard from themselves and wanted meetings and answers to questions, while in committee we have called for extra meetings and invited extra guests to sort out what is actually right and wrong on this issue. As mentioned by the Left Party representative, Sweden was previously opposed to this directive at EU level. As I understand it, it was a broad, straight across all parties, at European level. It is understandable – that we might have found solutions without this directive – but it is a directive, and it should be implemented in Sweden. In the Swedish report that was presented and that led up to this bill, there was talk of a proposal with a floor amount but no ceiling amount. This is justified by the fact that it is the best way to strengthen primary production. We can buy from the Moderates that it may well be so, but it has not been given for us. As has been pointed out, this could be over-implementing the directive, and historically we from the Moderates tend to be against over-implementing European directives. But we do not interpret this correctly, and the signals we receive from outside may not really indicate that this is an over-implementment either. Rather, it is a simplification of the whole directive. That is also what has led us to finally land as we have done on this issue. As this is sprawling and we see that different countries are going to land in different ways in this, we think it is very good and important that the committee has agreed with the Moderates' proposal to make an evaluation of the proposal after a while. It is quite clear that this evaluation is needed, so it feels very good. On behalf of the Moderates, I support the proposal in the report. We emphasise this with the evaluation; we think it is very good. As has been said, there is talk of how the directive would affect the food strategy and the conditions for Swedish primary production and Swedish agriculture. It certainly does – certainly – although I do not believe that the large agricultural chains, which were lifted earlier, actually reflect their prices vis-à-vis primary producers depending on how the UTP directive lands. I am not as sure of what the representative of the Social Democrats was. I see a number of different things we need to do instead to strengthen primary production and to achieve the objectives of the food strategy. The government does not really want to push them, so we are still waiting for them. With regard to the concrete tools for how we actually achieve the goals of the food strategy, which are approaching – we should have achieved them by 2030 – we have a long way to go. Madam President, I would like I am not going to prolong this debate too much. We on the Moderate side have clarified our vision. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved, and we would like to stress the importance of an evaluation.
i-6dac03c742168037-141	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the government proposal for a law against unfair trading practices. As previous speakers have said, this is a complex issue with widely differing interests, as all parties experienced during the preparatory work in committee – and certainly also in connection with meetings with the various lobby groups. My reflection was that it often agreed with the last speaker, and this time it was discussed with the various groups. So it has been a complex preparation. Madam President, I would like In this context, a few words should be said about the background to this law. This is not something that is being carried out in Sweden because the industry or other actors in Sweden have put forward that trading practices should be regulated by such legislation. It is also not based on the fact that any party in Parliament has been pushing, but the background is that France and other countries in southern Europe have been working for many years to bring about an EU directive. This EU directive has been rejected by both the government and the parliament. It is therefore a typical example of a growing Europe that is going into areas where it is simply not supposed to be. The Swedish democrats will always be a guarantor of combating a fragile EU and supporting the development of intergovernmental EU cooperation that will focus primarily on enabling free trade with goods and services within the internal market. Madam President, I would like Now, however, we are forced to implement the directive. It would have been preferable to resolve this with industry agreements or changes to the existing competition law we have. We see problems with the current proposal, but the question is how best to design the legislation. We have here producers and buyers with different places in the food chain, and what we are getting now is protection for sellers against buyers and exceptions for the very smallest. This can be good because we have an oligopoly-like market in the area of food sales with large players such as Ica, Coop and Axfood. But the issue is not quite that simple because we also have large wholesalers and large groups in the area of producers. The question is whether large players should really have extra protection even against smaller or even-sized players, and the question is also what it leads to if these extra protections are now given. Does this lead to increased administrative problems when, for example, setting a ceiling for annual turnover? It actually creates negative incentives. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we initially leaned towards introducing a ceiling amount, but with the passing of time we have become increasingly humble. As previous speakers have said, it is difficult to really define what is over-implementing and what is not over-implementing. After all, you just have to look at what is best or least risky to do at this point. It always becomes complicated when the state is to enter and regulate an otherwise free market. We have come to the conclusion that we are not prepared to make such changes to the legislative proposal at this stage, but we welcome the fact that the committee has been able to agree on requests for proper evaluation. We need to know more about the impact of regulatory changes on trade volumes, profit margins, profitability and general competition for all market players and how Swedish food production is affected. Madam President, I would like As has already been said, we see potential problems with the bill, but we still see it as the best way forward to implement it, look carefully at what the consequences are and, if necessary, return.
i-6dac03c742168037-149	Madam President, I would like An EU directive banning unfair trading practices– what is it, perhaps you are listening to this debate. With regard to the various actors in the food chain, there will in future be both a black list of the kinds of unfair trading practices that you do not want to see and a grey list where you will be able to enter into agreements on it – so it is not possible to use these methods automatically. Then someone may wonder if this is really needed. As a matter of fact, it does. Business practices that occur today and are now being banned are, as far as I know, not accepted in so many other markets. For example, the buyer may require transparency in the seller's finances, business secrets and profit margins. It could be a matter of unilaterally changing the terms of the agreements entered into. This may concern questions about delivery terms, prices and volumes. There is also a requirement for the buyer, at the seller's expense, to be able to return fresh goods bought and which have not been sold. These may be long payment periods. Previous speakers in the debate have mentioned that we have had many meetings on these issues. We have asked questions about how common it is with unfair trading practices, and then sometimes the answer has been that we do not really know. It can be very sensitive to address this issue in different ways, and it can also disadvantage you as an entrepreneur. Of course it is serious, but we have heard quite a few examples of the use of these unfair trading practices. The directive is about changing the balance of the food chain so that it is better, one might say, and it is important to create a stronger food production sector. In recent years, Sweden's power of supply has become increasingly topical, ever since the ash cloud more than ten years ago. We had a drought three years ago. There have been fires and disturbances in our surrounding world but also in our neighbourhood. In the construction of total defence, food production is mentioned as an important part, and during the ongoing pandemic there were at least initially quite major challenges linked to skills supply, transport, inputs and more. The original directive had a stairway that would protect it less from the larger one, which, for example, the representative of the Left Party has raised in the debate. But after doing an investigation based on Swedish conditions they landed in another model. It has been discussed whether it should be over-implemented or not. It is a more straight model, and most people still regard it as a simpler model in which the seller's role is strengthened in relation to that of the buyer and a better balance is created in the food sector. It is therefore not about the relationship with the customer but about different conditions before. The whole committee has also supported a wording to evaluate how the directive will affect the various stages, and that is a good thing. Many times when we convert an EU directive into Swedish legislation, there are many of us who, for various reasons, make criticisms about over-implementing, and representatives in the debate have also raised the fact that there are different images whether or not this would be an over-implementment. It is at least another implementation than the original EU directive. I am aware that there are questions, and of course we will follow this closely. If we compare the proposal with the investigation, it is the smallest traders who have a turnover of less than EUR 2 million that has been excluded. There has then been a discussion that selling companies with a turnover of more than EUR 350 million would be exempted and that a ceiling would be imposed. However, the committee has come to the conclusion that almost unanimously it has proposed that this should not be the case. It's just the Left Party holding on to it. We have heard the arguments for this, but from my point of view, the mechanism has not been properly understood. If we exclude the largest companies in this part from the unfair trading practices, then there is, in the end, only the price left to compete with. This puts smaller companies at a disadvantage, because when the issue has been negotiated with large companies and is to be addressed to a smaller supplier, the issue of prices will only remain to be negotiated. In the debate, the really big companies have been mentioned. The Left Party chose to mention Coca-Cola and Nestlé, which accounts for only 10 per cent of the Swedish market. But if you look at some of the large cooperative companies, such as Lantmännen, Arla, Ugglarp and others that have also been mentioned earlier in the debate, you can see that they are owned by our Swedish farmers. They would suffer double if we were to exclude them from this directive. It would not benefit the profitability and competitiveness of primary production, and it is surely also a part of the Left Party's support, linked to the food strategy. Trade unions have also raised the importance of the Swedish food industry gaining better opportunities in the future. Madam President, I would like Swedish food production faces a number of challenges, and this is certainly not the only answer to these challenges. But it is an important piece of the puzzle to meet the future, and so it is good that there is now such broad support for this bill. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6dac03c742168037-160	Madam President, I would like So today we are debating the UTP directive, as many have said before me. It is a question of banning unfair commercial practices in the purchase of agricultural and food products. We Christian Democrats support the proposal, and we also consider it very important that the new law be evaluated according to the Moderates' proposal to see the consequences and conditions for buyers, suppliers and primary producers in the agricultural and food chain. This is something that all parties support, which is positive and good. The crucial thing for us Christian Democrats when we support this proposal is to honour the agreement on the food strategy. It was adopted here in Parliament almost exactly four years ago and was a very important decision that was preceded by many discussions and discussions before we finally reached an agreement. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the then Rural Minister, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, who did an incredibly good job of implementation. Madam President, I would like The basis for the food strategy was that we wanted to see an end to the dismantling of Swedish agriculture and instead see its development. It was a very important decision and an important signal to all Swedish farmers that we politically agreed, and apart from the Left Party we also agree on the UTP. We talked about increasing profitability, strengthening competitiveness and increasing food readiness from the record low levels that were then – below 50%. That's all right, but that was four years ago. Madam President, I would like Then what happened? What has happened to the food strategy? If I ask the government representatives, they say that milk prices are now good. Meat prices are great. All the prices have gone up. The sun shines, and it rains when it rains. Look at how good they've been. One seems to have totally forgotten the connection between the extreme drought year 2018 and the effects we are seeing today. But the question remains what the government has done to increase profitability and strengthen competitiveness. What has happened to increasing our level of self-sufficiency? Has Sweden's food readiness increased in four years? The answer is no. It is steadily below 50 percent, and Sweden's food trade deficit is over SEK 50 billion. Madam President, I would like Four years is a long time. Here I mean that government representatives need to pursue self-examination. Concrete measures are being called for. For example, one of the food strategy's objectives was to reduce the regulatory burden. Farmers have not yet seen this. Instead, the regulatory framework is increasing in scope. When I meet farmers today, many wonder what is meant. They say that we are talking about reducing the regulatory burden, but on the contrary, it only gets heavier and heavier. What's the government thinking? Are there any suggestions? Action plans are being called for! If the UTP is a key, on which Ulrika Heie spoke, it is a good thing. But more action is being called for.
i-6dac03c742168037-167	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a fruitful debate. The report deals with the prohibition of unfair trade practices in the purchase of agricultural and food products. We have heard earlier in the debate that there has been a long process in committee, and it has become clear that this type of regulation is needed. You can have different opinions about what it should look like, and you can have different interests. It seems that there are several parties that have turned here and there because they have had new whims. It is not bad but good, Madam President. It shows that the members of the committee have listened, taken on board and taken into account the things that have emerged in the process. The fact that it is said as a bad thing that one has not been absolutely sure of one's position, had ideological blindfolds and not listened from the beginning is strange. On the contrary, it has been a solid process in which many have been heard. Finally, despite different positions from the outset, the committee has managed to land in a common product. I think it is a strength and shows that it is possible to move forward together in committee, even if you come from different directions from the beginning. The parties that have given reservations or specific opinions are those parties that have not originally wanted a European Union. At least you might suspect it's in the balance. Madam President, I would like It has been highlighted in the past that it has been a special process because these are not proposals that have come out of the parties' processes or that have been highlighted by some industry organisation or similar. That is true, but that does not mean that the proposals are bad. That is why we have a process like this, and good reasons have been found. Although the proposals from the outset have not been raised by an industry organisation, good arguments have come from there. That's a good thing. Liberals want free market and free trade. People should be allowed to deal with each other any way they want. That is the basic liberal starting point. But there is also a role for the state to play in setting up rules that make the trade work in a fair way. It's no stranger than that. The problems that the report and the proposal from the European Union are trying to tackle are in reality. They put small suppliers in a difficult power relationship with large buyers. It is reasonable that we should have legislation to protect the smaller suppliers from the slightly larger buyers. There may not be many people listening who are familiar with the matter, but you will listen if there is an interest. It may be worth noting that what has happened in the Swedish Parliament is that today we are making decisions on a simpler model than many other EU countries do. It becomes clearer and simpler, and it in itself benefits what is at the core of the product: to protect small from larger – simply because larger often have better resources to understand difficult systems. It is a simpler model, and it is a model that will be effective. The need has been expressed and brought to light in the solid process that the committee has had. It is worth saying that the smallest are excluded. It is particularly important for this issue in committee, precisely because it has been a complicated process, precisely because several parties have changed their positions during the course of their work, and precisely because it is a complex and complex issue with many interests in different directions, it is good that it is clear from the report, and it is a proposal for an announcement to the government, that the consequences of the new law should be evaluated. This shows how the process has progressed. Those of you who listen hear how the debate takes place between the various parties in Parliament. It shows that there will be a need. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal. Again, I can say that I am pleased that it has been a solid and broad process. It is a pity that not all parties are in favour of the kind of legislation that will protect the smallest from the largest and ensure that we get a better balance in the markets. I note that it may not only be due to the content of the product but also to a general scepticism about trade cooperation in the European Union.
i-6dac03c742168037-176	Madam President, I would like I have read a lot of articles in the media about unfair contracts, about blackmail and copying of products. But with the decision we are about to make in Parliament now, it is hoped that unfair commercial practices will be considerably more unusual in Sweden, just as in the EU. There are a few large food chains in Sweden. Three players account for 90% of the market share in trade. For a long time, trade has increasingly squeezed food producers in Sweden. The largest companies have profit margins that beat the international grocery giants with horse lengths. In this House, it is only one party that may have listened a little too much to the unfair lobbying practices of commerce, but I am pleased that we have such a large and broad consensus on the important issues in the Swedish Parliament. The background to these issues is about us consumers. There are many of us who think that the Swedish farmers are doing an important job. Food is produced in agriculture, but we, as consumers, can also be sure that we get more than the food itself. You can get biodiversity in the agricultural landscape, good animal welfare and good living environment if you choose food from these producers, and then at least I want to pay a little extra. I want to pay extra for organic food, for natural grazing, for local produce and for Swedish primeurs. But it is very reasonable that it should not only be the trader who puts these extra crowns in his pocket but that what we consumers pay should also benefit the farmers. The government has now proposed a new law to protect suppliers of agricultural and food products. The Act introduces a ban on unfair trading practices. The legislative changes are implemented because the EU has a directive on unfair trading practices. The new Swedish rules will take effect on 1 November 2021. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, as we have heard here today, has broad agreement that Parliament should say yes to this proposal. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that politics is at its best when we can come to an agreement. After meetings with food companies, farmers' organisations, the grocery trade and the Swedish Competition Authority, the committee has actually agreed that the Riksdag should address an invitation to the government to evaluate the consequences of the amendment. However, we have also agreed to support the new Unfair Commercial Practices Act. I am pleased that the demands we made by the Green Party in the preparation of this bill have had an impact. It is important to exempt small businesses in the commercial sector, those with a lower turnover than the equivalent of EUR 2 million. It's the smallest shops and the smallest kiosks. They are excluded, and that is because we have listened to the views of trade. I am also pleased that the issue of good business practice and unfair trading practices has now been discussed also in Sweden and not only at European level, where it has been discussed for several years. According to the Commission, there is broad agreement that unfair trading practices exist throughout the food chain, and I think that the information we have received to the committee clearly shows that this is a fact also in Sweden. In this Parliament, we already called on the Commission in 2016 to present an EU framework to tackle this area. I would like to say that it was absolutely necessary to get to grips with these problems in Sweden. We know that the position of trade on the market has been so strong that it has been impossible to implement Swedish proposals to strangle the possibility of unfair trading practices in the past. Sweden is one of only eight Member States that have completely lacked specific legislation against unfair trading practices until we now have this legislation. The aim is to protect smaller producers against large buyers and put an end to unfair terms. It shall be prohibited to have payment periods of more than one month and to require payment of costs not linked to the sale of the food in question. Commercial reprisals are banned and there will be a ban on refusing written agreements. Then I think that we should raise one thing that I think is extremely important and that food companies have stressed extra, namely that trade secrets should not be revealed. It has been an enormous problem that Swedish food companies that want to sell their products within Swedish trade have had to face competition from the trading companies themselves, which more or less while these products are launched on the market comes with their own brands with largely identical products. These are not fair trading methods, Madam President, and there will be a stop to that. I support the proposal.
i-6dac03c742168037-190	Madam President, I would like In letter 92 on a good working environment for the future, the Government presents its work environment strategy for 2021 – 2025. We Moderates welcome the fact that the government has taken on board the criticism that we have been making over the years against the policy on health and safety at work. This applies in particular to health and safety problems in the public sector, where high health rates among staff in women-dominated activities such as health care, school and care show major shortcomings in the working environment and preventive work environment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's previous inspections show, for example, that as many as 90 per cent of the special residents received comments regarding the work environment. The shortcomings discovered by the Swedish Work Environment Authority include preventive work environment management, for example that the employer has not investigated and addressed risks at work. The physical risks such as heavy lifting, stress and the like are an important part that has been recognised before, but it is also about how employers have handled the staff's high workload. The Corona crisis has, of course, made the situation of public sector personnel even worse. Some occupational groups have even risked their lives because of the lack of adequate protective equipment during their work. Madam President, I would like The trend in the vulnerability of employees in women-dominated public sector occupations is and has been negative for a long time, and it must be taken very seriously. Lack of time and procedures are factors that can lead to an unacceptable working environment. A particularly worrying trend is that the reporting of occupational diseases among women due to organisational and social problems has increased for nine consecutive years. It is important to continue improving the working environment, preventing ill health and accidents and preventing people from being excluded from working life, not least in order to enable a longer working life. We believe that consideration should be given to specific supervision of the psychosocial working environment in occupational groups with high absenteeism due to illness. It is often about contact professions, for example, often women-dominated occupations in publicly funded activities such as nurses, health care workers or teachers. When it comes to public activities, politics has a large, heavy responsibility to create the conditions for a well-functioning organisation and good leadership, which is crucial for a good working environment. Madam President, I would like The government's previous strategy on health and safety at work may have failed. The latest occupational injury statistics from the Swedish Work Environment Agency show an increase in the number of reported accidents at work, and in 2019 there were 46 fatal accidents at Swedish workplaces. Thus, on average, one person dies a week in a workplace accident. In this case, the government bears a great responsibility for making improvements in this area. We see that the government has good intentions with the new strategy in most areas, but we do not have proposals for concrete measures and answers to when and how the said proposals will be implemented. Unfortunately, we can also note that the government has not been able to assume its overall responsibility for neither the zero vision of fatal accidents nor the handling of the legal process in the case of occupational health and safety offences. The police authority has noted in a report that the handling of occupational health and safety offences is inadequate. It is of great importance that there is a holistic approach and that many different parties interact in a much better way than they do today. Investigations of fatal accidents at work can in some cases be complicated, with longer processing times. We Moderates are committed to ensuring that the legislation is modern and effective. We therefore want to see a review of the regulatory framework in order to increase the possibility of simplification and shorter processing times for occupational safety and health offences. An existing health and safety strategy and a zero vision must include adequate resources and a well-thought-out approach for the authorities involved. Unfortunately, this is missing in a number of paragraphs today. There is therefore a great potential for improvement here for the government. The most important part of ensuring a good working environment is a well-functioning preventive work environment work at the workplace. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, employees, employers and the state have a common responsibility in relation to that part and that work. Many employers want to do the right thing but unfortunately do not always know how to do it. Simplifying the regulatory framework is an important part of making it easier for businesses, especially smaller companies. It must simply be easy to do the right thing. Guidance and support are constantly being sought by entrepreneurs. Interventions of this nature are therefore an extremely central and important part of the work environment. Madam President, I would like The Government stresses the importance of cooperation between authorities. Work environment issues are addressed within several agencies, and sufficient resources are of course necessary for both the quality of the investigations and the processing times to be optimised. In their budget, the Moderates allocate 1.7 billion more to the judiciary than the government. Of course, the government's significantly smaller funding has major negative consequences for the area of health and safety at work. The Government should therefore continue to give priority to cooperation between the relevant authorities and resources for the judiciary. Add also the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences, which in our opinion are too short. The limitation period for normal occupational health and safety offences is now two years. In the case of a serious crime such as fatal accidents, it is extended to five years. However, experience shows that this is often not enough for prosecutors, police and courts to carry out the appropriate investigations that are needed. The Moderates therefore want to double the limitation periods both for the standard grade and for serious occupational health and safety offences. The government has so far, which is remarkable, said no to this proposal. The Moderates believe that the aim must be to continue to improve the working environment in our workplaces. The policy's focus should be on preventing ill health and accidents and preventing people from being excluded from working life. Action in this area should also focus on enabling a longer working life. We believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has a central role to play in achieving well-functioning working environments in the Swedish labour market. We therefore want to see a review of the Agency's activities in order to further streamline its work. Part of the streamlining process is also to close down the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The expert authority, which itself has major health and safety problems, receives guidance on how to handle their own work environment through consultants, and this for taxpayers' money. It is also remarkable. Competence and knowledge about the work environment will do the most good if it is collected in one and the same authority. We believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should take over this. All in all, we note that the government has now finally heeded Moderates' long-standing criticism of the work environment policy pursued and that there are good intentions to increase ambition and improve the working environment at Sweden's workplaces. However, good intentions are not enough. Concrete measures related to these are necessary in order to achieve important improvements in this area. The success of the OSH strategy requires adequate resources, better interaction between stakeholders, modernisation and efficiency. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support reservation number 2 in the report.
i-6dac03c742168037-213	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but we choose to accept only reservation number 9. Madam President, I would like In the tracks of covid-19, new work environment problems have arisen, while previous work environment problems in some parts have worsened. Due to the pandemic, acute health and safety problems have arisen in several sectors, and we cannot yet assess the long-term consequences and effects of these. A good work environment work is on several legs at the same time: research, implementation of research results in both strategic and local work environment work and, above all, a strong action against work environment crimes. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Work Environment Authority's statistics show that one third of all employed people in Sweden experience some kind of problem. Examples can be stress, bullying, threats and violence – something that unfortunately increases in our Swedish workplaces. That is why, Madam President, we welcome the government's new strategy on health and safety at work. However, we can see that the strategy lacks strong proposals and should therefore be seen primarily as a vision document. Nevertheless, we largely share the Government's vision for health and safety at work policy. What distinguishes us is what measures we think are needed to achieve the goals of a better working environment. We believe that the objectives are best achieved by depoliticising the work environment in Sweden as far as possible. There the government is unfortunately of a different opinion and has previously put forward several proposals where the intention was to link the work environment to a further highly politicised trade union movement through legislation. Madam President, I would like Trade unions are important in the Swedish labour market and play an important role in the work environment as well. But it is wrong when, above all, the Social Democrats believe that they have a monopoly on which employees are to be included in the work environment. We believe that such proposals risk being excluded for a large part of Sweden's employees. We believe that this is the wrong way to go. If the government's objectives are to be achieved, all employees and companies must be involved in the work environment. Madam President, I would like We believe that today's work environment work needs to be adapted to the changes that have taken place on the employees' side, where more people choose not to be members of a trade union because they do not, above all, share the views of the Social Democrats on society. Today, there are workplaces where it may be difficult to get someone elected as a safety representative because of the lack of union links. There are examples where employees have wanted to choose one person but the union has used its prerogatives because that person did not fit into the political template and simply appointed someone else. We believe that it is self-evident that suitable people with both an interest in and knowledge of work environment work should not have to be or become members of a trade union or a political party in order to become a safety representative. The power to appoint representatives shall lie with the employees of the workplace, without restriction. We believe that the position expressed is particularly relevant at a time when the degree of union organisation is decreasing as Swedish employees are increasingly leaving social democracy. Madam President, I would like The reduction in the rate of accession leads to fewer union elected representatives, which in turn makes it difficult to appoint union-based safety representatives. The bottom line is that work environment management suffers. It is not reasonable to allow development to continue in this way. Work environment must be prioritised and carried out regardless of whether trade unions have representation in the workplace or not. That is why it is absolutely horrifying and very provocative to see Social Democratic ministers and trade union politicians throwing out pure lies on the press's debate pages that the Swedish Democrats want to ban employees from becoming safety representatives, when the truth is, on the contrary, that we want more people to be able to take on the role of safety representative. You act completely without facts and self-awareness. Such action is not worthy of ministers in the Swedish Government. We can see that Sweden's employees, especially within LO, have grown tired of the Social Democratic rhetoric, as reflected in SCB's latest survey, where Sweden's democrats' confidence has greatly increased at the expense of the Social Democrats within the LO collective. Madam President, I would like In May 2020, the Government was invited by means of a notice to set up an investigation to evaluate the impact of the activities of the Regional Safety Officers. Unfortunately, however, the answer is delayed, and it is only to be regretted. It would have been an important part when we are now launching a new work environment strategy, while several Swedish workplaces are left out of the important work environment work. And this must not be the case in Sweden in 2021. Safety representatives paid by the state must have access to all Swedish workplaces, unconditionally. Anything else is unreasonable. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about Mynak, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which we believe will play an important role in the work environment of the future and, above all, in research into the consequences on the working environment in the tracks of the coronapandemine. They should be broadened and the agency given a freer role in their research assignments. Madam President, I would like In a number of debates in this House, I have highlighted the proposal to extend the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences, which the Moderates have supported now. But, Madam President, what surprises me is that the Social Democrats consistently say no, because the proposal is basically their own and something that was written into their election manifesto in 2018. It was an issue that was pushed into Swedish workplaces among Swedish employees. And despite the fact that there is a majority in favour of the motion in Parliament, you choose to print red. I'm having a hard time understanding that. This shows, Madam President, that the power and rejection of certain parties are put before the right of Swedish employees to redress and a good working environment. I think it is a very cynical act that I can only regret. Madam President, I would like If we are to tackle the health and safety problems we have in the Swedish labour market, we need to involve more people in the work. We need an unpolitical trade union movement that works for all employees, its members, and which is not supported by political parties on the left. We need to give more chance to become a safety representative. We need to let the safety representative be the safety representative. Above all, we need to involve all Sweden's employees in the work environment. Swedish employees want to see a change. They don't want to stay in old wheel tracks, as SCB's latest measurement shows very clearly. There even the Moderates have greater support within LO than the Left Party has. These are figures showing a political breadth within the Swedish labour movement. It is far from the image that the parties on the left side paint.
i-AQkPUBAPzuVFKJjeWFTdoj	I would like to welcome the ministers. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Questions are answered today by Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of State Matilda Ernkrans and Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-6dac03c742168037-232	Mr President, I would like to When Löfven became Prime Minister, his great promise was that Sweden by 2020 would have the EU's absolute lowest unemployment rate. It was the other way around when we came to the beginning of 2020. Sweden's unemployment was then one of the EU's highest, and now, after Corona, Sweden is in the EU's absolute ironing class. This has nothing to do with Corona, because it is not only Sweden that has had a pandemic. The promise in Aftonbladet yesterday that unemployment will decrease when the economy restarts. This is not a very bold ambition given that virtually all sectors have been banned for almost a year. My question to the Minister for Labour is: is there any new level of unemployment going down to, or are we just going to return to the level that existed before the Corona when Sweden had the fifth highest unemployment rate in the EU, also after a long boom? What's really going on?
i-6dac03c742168037-235	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mats Green for the question. There is no doubt that the coronapndemy has tried both our country and our labour market and jobs very hard. We now have a high level of unemployment, but we also see points of light. We push back unemployment, and there are now more people going from unemployment to employment and education than what comes in as a job seeker at the Employment Service. It goes without saying to the government and me as Minister of Labour and Social Democrats that the long-term objective is always full employment and that women and men in our elongated country should be able to support themselves, have their own salary and feel the community and freedom of their own work.
i-6dac03c742168037-238	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, that was not an answer to my question, so I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the government has abandoned all the objectives of Swedish unemployment following Lövven Job Promises. This is not good enough! We need to have an active policy for more jobs. It is remarkable that despite the highest unemployment rate, the Minister for Labour has not presented a single proposal for more jobs in Sweden for a long time.
i-6dac03c742168037-240	Mr President, I would like to The government is taking very strong measures, and we have pushed back unemployment. Our policy has made a difference. We are now presenting an entire agenda for reform packages for LAS, security and transition, start-up jobs and Employment Services – all in order to create a better labour market policy and a more effective match so that employers who are looking for labour are also given the opportunity to hire. Today there are more than 108 000 vacancies to apply for at Platsbanken.
i-6dac03c742168037-241	Mr President, I would like to You have your clan on the work. This is how an employee explains the thousands of unlawful beatings made in the Migration Board's register. The employee also says that all those who have made these beatings themselves have an immigrant background. Sensitive information from asylum investigations is at risk of leaking, and privacy is being violated. In the worst case, people who have fled from violent clan structures risk facing clan structures again, but now within the Swedish authority. It may also be data of interest to foreign power or criminal networks. Within parts of the Migration Agency, the background control of the personnel is non-existent. In many cases you don't even have to be a Swedish citizen.
i-6dac03c742168037-246	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ludvig Aspling for the question. The introduction of the question already tells us what it is all about. These are illegal beatings and illegal activities, and whatever the background and context, they should be prosecuted. That is one of the reasons why we are adding more resources to the police and the prosecutor's services than ever before, and are providing resources to the law enforcement authorities. We are also ensuring, not least by means of the security law in the matter, that our authorities increase the control of those employed. Regardless of the background Ludvig Aspling wants to make a point of, the starting point is that everyone should be able to be checked if they have secured jobs and that we should of course prosecute criminal activities. It's obvious!
i-6dac03c742168037-249	Mr President, I would like to If it were individual cases, it would have been one thing, but here we are talking about thousands of such beatings. The problem also seems recurring. I was amused to google this a little quickly before Question Time, and the oldest case I could find occurred more than 12 years ago. So the same thing happened at the time. It makes me suspect that this problem is persistent and that it is also further up the authority's hierarchy. Someone seems to allow this to continue. Does the government have any idea how high up in the hierarchy of authorities this infiltration has stretched?
i-6dac03c742168037-252	Mr President, I would like to It is not unusual for representatives of the Swedish Democrats to express their distrust of the authorities, be it the police, the Migration Agency or other authorities. We see this trend in much of the world when populist and xenophobic forces want to increase distrust of science, truth and government. Of course we should have proper controls. This applies both to our authorities and to the security legislation we have today.
i-6dac03c742168037-254	Mr President, I would like to The climate issue does not take a break, and we know that transport emissions in Sweden are high. One of the fuels best placed to reduce emissions is biogas. Biogas reduces emissions by somewhere around 90%, and we know that particulate emissions are going to be low. Anyone who today goes to any gas station and gas tanks gets an average of 95 percent biogas, with very great climate benefit. Climate benefits can even be over 100 percent if biogas is made from manure. We also know that the residual product from biogas production becomes a biofertiliser that replaces fossil fertilizer. Despite all this, the government has proposed that biogas cars should no longer be classified as environmental cars. My question to Tomas Eneroth is therefore: on what environmental grounds does the government want to make this decision?
i-6dac03c742168037-259	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that biogas vehicles are incredibly important and a central part of the transition. We have seen this in public transport and in private cars. It is, I believe, a misconception about a European directive that wants clean electric vehicles. This means that 38.5% of publicly procured vehicles should be clean environmental vehicles. This means that biogas vehicles, when they have a higher emission level, are not allowed. This means that municipalities and regions can continue to procure a large proportion of biogas vehicles. O ch d et means that individuals are not at all affected by this. But the state wants to go ahead. Now it is perhaps only about thirty biogas vehicles that the state has, but when the state procures vehicles in the government activities that exist, it may be a point that we tighten up environmental requirements and make sure that it becomes increasingly electric vehicles. I don't think Rickard Nordin would mind.
i-6dac03c742168037-262	Mr President, I would like to Do I correctly interpret Tomas Eneroth – does it mean going ahead of us to exclude one of the very best environmental fuels we have? What is about going ahead, for example to 61.5 per cent, the remaining part, could be biogas cars. This is not about going ahead. It's about backing into the future – excluding one of the very best fuels we have. Will the government maintain that the environmental car definition should be changed and, if so, why?
i-6dac03c742168037-265	Mr President, I would like to In fact, the percentage currently provided for under EU legislation would mean that the share of biogas cars could be increased in municipalities and regions. It is for the small state share that we say we want an environmental car definition that means that we reward clean environmental vehicles. The proposal is now being referred, and I have said that I will listen to the consultation bodies. Let us have a dialogue on this, but let us also agree that we need to change the fleet of vehicles in order to meet the climate requirements.
i-6dac03c742168037-267	Mr President, I would like to On Monday, Eva Nordmark presented the proposal on how the agreement between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK, Kommunal and IF Metall should be implemented. The proposed changes in labour law are very far-reaching. It will be easier and cheaper to lay off people. The proposed improvements do not weigh up the deterioration. My trade union Trade has since 2012 a regulation on fixed-term employment in the collective agreement, similar to the one proposed. Nevertheless, the proportion of employees on a fixed-term basis has not decreased, on the contrary. As far as planing is concerned, the proposal only regulates, not stops. The employers can continue to plan in working time – it gets a little more tedious. How can Eva Nordmark be proud of this agreement, which provides a more precarious labour market, and in what way will there be a better balance between workers with different conditions of employment?
i-6dac03c742168037-270	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ciczie Weidby, for the very important question! The Swedish labour market is changing at high speed. Jobs both change and disappear, and new jobs are added to the economy. Then it is very valuable that we have a strong partnership model in our country where unions and employers jointly take responsibility in negotiations to meet a new labour market. What was presented last Monday is about increasing flexibility for employers but also about creating greater security for employees, both in employment protection and in being able to switch to a labour market where jobs disappear and change at a very rapid rate, including putting an end to the eternal stacking of fixed-term contracts and being able to regulate so that from one day to the next you can not plan down working hours. We'll put a stop to that.
i-6dac03c742168037-273	Mr President, I would like to Fixeds, planks and involuntary part-times are a plague in our labour market, especially for Trade members. The fact that more young people want secure jobs is not surprising because they lack it. Insecure fixed-term contracts are now being exploited. We must ban these forms of employment, point one. When does the government submit such a proposal to Parliament?
i-6dac03c742168037-275	Mr President, I would like to It is important to see that the Swedish labour market is regulated partly through politics, which provides the conditions for the parties to agree on the wider rules of the game and to adapt what we lay as a basis in the legislation. We improve opportunities for those who have temporary employment and halve the qualification period. When you have been employed for one year, you are qualified for an open-ended position, which is a difference compared to today's two years. There are therefore important improvements in this agreement and in what the government and the cooperation parties have presented.
i-6dac03c742168037-277	Mr President, I would like to Reportedly, several work integration social enterprises, so-called ASF, have been hit hard during the pandemic, so hard that they have unfortunately gone bankrupt. It is, of course, bad for all companies that are forced to go bankrupt in connection with the pandemic, but it is particularly worrying when it comes to social enterprises. Employees in social enterprises find it very difficult to enter the regular labour market, which means that they run a huge risk of being excluded from the labour market in the long term when their companies have gone bankrupt. I have two specific questions for the Minister for Labour. Why did the government have no special efforts so that social enterprises could overwinter the pandemic? That is the historical question. The question for the future is: What does the government intend to do now to support social enterprises so that they can restart?
i-6dac03c742168037-280	Mr President, I would like to I thank Michael Anefur for the important issue, which we had the opportunity to debate on Monday. Labour integration social enterprises play a very important role, not least in labour market policy, for those people who are far from working. We have taken a number of different support measures during the pandemic. I look forward to being able to give a message to Parliament and the Committee on Employment about the DS that we will present before the summer and which will focus on what labour market policy will look like in the future. I would like to stress that we need to have a variety of actors and that I see that work integration social enterprises are very important, not least for those who are far from the labour market.
i-6dac03c742168037-284	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer so far! Samhall and social enterprises are for about the same groups of people. Does the Minister have any idea how to make these two different forms that work with vulnerable people better complement each other in the future? I believe that this is quite crucial.
i-6dac03c742168037-286	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we have a labour market policy and an employment service that has many different tools in its toolbox. Samhall has a very important mission. Every day 26 000 employees go to work, and many are extremely proud of it. We have given a number of assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen to review the target group and the instructions so that we are sure that the right target groups are assigned to Samhall. But we must have a variety of players and not see the different parts as competitors, but rather as complements to each other.
i-6dac03c742168037-289	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. We have collaborated on the research proposal decided by the Riksdag a few months ago, but in parallel with its work there is a rather noisy debate on academic freedom. Unfortunately, it has become a bat where everyone chooses to interpret it so that their thesis is strengthened. In other words, there is a need to refine what we mean by academic freedom. The research bill states that the government is open to setting up a parliamentary inquiry to investigate how academic freedom could be included in the constitution.
i-2JDvTDDjUr1YPKoxTeYWmg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for the question. It feels very right that, according to a proposal from the government that we have worked up to the House together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the Riksdag has decided to legislate on academic freedom. I think that together we have been able to describe in the bill what this means, namely a principle that applies to all universities: that academic freedom should be promoted and protected. This is a work that is welcomed by our universities, and it takes a great responsibility to get it in place in a wise and good way that calls for what we may all need to think about, namely how we stand up for what is ultimately our democracy. As regards the part that Maria Nilsson is asking about, constitutional changes are made on behalf of the Riksdag and a broad association from the Riksdag that wants to push forward this constitutional change. It is also true that we can do such a thing if the Riksdag so proposes.
i-6dac03c742168037-296	Mr President, I would like to It was decided that academic freedom should be written into the Higher Education Act – absolutely. But we don't think that's enough. Why are we so concerned about this? Well, we believe that by entering it in the Constitution, it shows its importance and renouncing the concept, and it is given stronger protection than it has today when it is only in the Higher Education Act. So we're ready. Is the government ready to start such work?
i-6dac03c742168037-298	Mr President, I would like to Again: To enter it in the Constitution is a change made on the basis that there is a broad association in the Swedish Parliament that agrees that such a change should take place. I am very proud that we have legalised academic freedom as a general principle. It didn't exist before. The freedom of research is already constitutionally protected. But academic freedom is now legally protected by the Swedish Parliament having taken this step. Changing the Constitution is a much larger process.
i-6dac03c742168037-300	Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the Minister for Labour presented proposals for changes in labour law and strengthened transition opportunities in the Swedish labour market. These are major changes, and I think many people are wondering how this will affect their own position and security in the labour market. Women are currently over-represented among those who have precarious employment in the Swedish labour market. They work more often part-time and have fewer opportunities for skills development.
i-6dac03c742168037-303	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johanna Haraldsson for the important question. Too many women have precarious employment and a precarious situation in the Swedish labour market and too little opportunities for skills development. For this reason, I am very pleased that on Monday I was able to tell you that there are a lot of reinforcements and improvements here that include the fact that the so-called SMS contracts – temporary contracts – will count as a whole month if you have three jobs. That is an example. I've already mentioned planing. However, the new conversion and study support is also directed at those who work part-time and to fixed-term employees. This will mean major improvements for employees in welfare and trade, for example.
i-6dac03c742168037-305	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. A year ago, the so-called LAS investigation presented its proposal to which we Social Democrats were extremely critical and which we were happy to put in the trash when the parties presented their proposal and which forms the basis of the proposals that we now have on the table. But what are the main differences between the proposals of the LAS investigation and those of the Contracting Parties which now leave the Minister for Labour ready to move forward with changes in labour law?
i-6dac03c742168037-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this supplementary question. A year ago I received an investigation that had a strong list in favour of the employer. It would have been impossible for me as a social democrat to put forward such an unbalanced proposal. Instead, we now have a product in which unions and employers have negotiated together. It is a balanced starting point which also strengthens the driving forces of collective agreements and which significantly improves both security and transition opportunities in the Swedish labour market. It's something I'm proud of.
i-6dac03c742168037-310	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth a question. There is a legislative referral on its way to the Riksdag with more stringent penalties for offences against animals. There will also be a provision on gross animal cruelty in the penal code. The investigation that forms the basis of this bill has suggested that there should be four years in prison for those who misbehave or behave ruthlessly against animals. Recently, in the media, we have seen serious reports from animal farms where animals are suffering immensely. We have seen dead cows and serious neglect simply.
i-6dac03c742168037-315	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Gardfjell for a very important question. Of course, what we have seen in some media elements recently is totally unacceptable with almost systematic animal cruelty in some cases. Of course, it is very welcome that attention is being paid to it and that the media are reporting on it. In fact, with the change in new animal welfare legislation just a few years ago, we have pushed forward a completely different awareness, knowledge and opportunity to act. Now we have set up an investigation that is complete and has proposed increased penalties. There's something we want to see. And we will be able to put forward a proposal shortly to tighten the penalties for animal cruelty.
i-6dac03c742168037-319	Mr President, I would like to My follow-up question to Tomas Eneroth is: Does the government really believe that this will now stop the reporting that we so often see about the neglect of animals?
i-6dac03c742168037-320	Mr President, I would like to I really hope so. I very much hope that clear penalties and clear legislation will stop the animal cruelty that we have seen. But I am also aware that there will in fact continue to be times when owners of animals do not accept their responsibilities. Then we must be constantly prepared to act and to have a high level of supervision. But there must also be a clear signal from society that this is not acceptable.
i-6dac03c742168037-321	Mr President, I would like to What we need to restart Sweden is an infrastructure policy that works throughout the country with a focus on jobs and growth. Dalsland is rich in innovative companies, has a hot establishment market and is rich in forest. And even though the roads are described as Sweden's most beautiful, the condition of them is terrible. What people, companies and employers need are accessible roads that are not broken by frost and that do not have reduced permitted speeds. It is therefore extremely frustrating that the Finnish Transport Administration says that their budget allocation is not enough to equip or even maintain the standard on the roads. My question is: When will there be more money, more road grants, for road maintenance in the more beautiful parts of Sweden, in Fyrbodal, in Dalsland and in Bohuslän?
i-6dac03c742168037-326	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ann-Sofie Alm for the question. I share the view that these are beautiful parts of Sweden. It is of course incredibly important that the road standard in Sweden is improved. We have had underinvestments for a very long time in Swedish infrastructure. This was one of the reasons why we already increased funding for infrastructure in 2018 and not least for road maintenance. In the infrastructure bill that I have presented and which the Riksdag is actually dealing with right now, a substantial increase in the funding is proposed for road maintenance – SEK 197 billion. This means that Trafikverket has never had as much resources as now to improve road maintenance. This, together with BK4 efforts, to increase road load, will mean that we will see an improvement. But it is a tough challenge, because we have many miles of state roads in Sweden. It has been years of underinvestment, not least after the Moderate government as a priority tax reduction instead.
i-6dac03c742168037-329	Mr President, I would like to Total defence-related positions are placed by the Swedish Armed Forces in a security class. This means that those who, for example, are required to do military service are screened before participating in security sensitive activities. This is regulated by law. The fulfilment of military service today rests on duty and not on voluntary service. However, the Security Act requires the consent of register checks and special personal investigation from the total defence-obliging individual. If the total defence officer refuses, the Armed Forces cannot place this person in a position, which in practice makes military service optional. In 1996, the law was last reviewed. The Swedish Armed Forces considered that total defence obligations should be exempted from the requirement for consent. However, a socialist government felt that there was no basis for exceptions with regard to personal integrity. The question to the Minister for Defence is: Can the government now consider listening to the Swedish Armed Forces and introducing an exception, and if so, how quickly can this be put in place?
i-6dac03c742168037-333	Mr President, I would like to After the general conscription was suspended by a former bourgeois majority in the Swedish parliament, it has been reactivated according to the government's decision. We are now a bit into some military service hills. Of course, from time to time it may be appropriate to review these systems and how they work. But I have not seen that this is precisely a major problem within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces and within the framework of the military service activities that we are carrying out today. The most important thing is that the military service we carry out has a good quality, that it has a good reputation and that it can contribute to strengthening Swedish defence capabilities and Swedish defence forces. What becomes real problems and what we perceive as problems, of course, we should be prepared to attack and look at whether we are going to change.
i-6dac03c742168037-336	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ernkrans, who is responsible for higher education throughout the country. On Thursday night, Peter and Wilma had to load Corinne and little Sky, a small sick foal with almost 40 degrees fever, swollen joints, severe diarrhea and so on. 200 miles away is the animal hospital in Skara. There they said: No, here it is full. A hundred miles [400 km] away is Helsingborg's animal hospital, and that is where you had to go late in the evening on Thursday. It is clear that the concern has been raised that there is no access to veterinary skills throughout the country in the way that one would like to see. It has also been pointed out, for example, that Strömsholm's emergency hospital has closed at night. The University Chancellor's Office came in April with a report pointing to a number of deficiency professions. Not least, there will be a shortage of veterinarians until 2035. It is a problem that we do not educate enough people in Sweden. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: what measures do they intend to take to ensure that skills are available throughout the country all day long?
i-6dac03c742168037-339	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question. This shows how important it is that we together ensure that we have higher education but also research and scientific connections throughout our country. If we are to cope with animal welfare, welfare, our business community and our development power throughout the country, this must also exist throughout the country. In the middle of Swedish politics, we are making a very large expansion of higher education. This year alone, there will be 19 000 new places of study distributed across universities throughout the country. A lot of them are directed to the shortage professions. Then it is the universities that will dimension the education according to the needs of the labour market and the students' demand. We also strengthen the team's collaboration task for our higher education institutions with the surrounding society. I think we are making a great deal of effort, but we are certainly not done.
i-6dac03c742168037-342	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Eva Nordmark. For decades, the exposure of train crews to threats and violence on board and in station areas has escalated. During the pandemic, the situation has worsened significantly. It's a matter of pure assault and threats. Staff gets spit on, gets sprayed with unknown fluids in the face, gets objects thrown on them and so on. The crimes are committed both on board and in the station areas. Rarely do the cases go on to prosecution. Investigations are closed. It is under all criticism that employees in Sweden are forced to go to work afraid and worried about what will happen during their shift. Lonely manning is very widespread. Employees often work alone on board a vehicle that runs in at least 150 and where there is no place to go if something happens.
i-6dac03c742168037-346	Mr President, I would like to No one should have to be afraid to go to work. Everyone should be able to feel safe at their workplace. The Government presented a new strategy for health and safety at work in February. I intend to come back with a health and safety investigation, in which we are looking, among other things, at the issue of sanctions, which is important. However, what I would like to highlight as the most central aspect of this situation is the important role of safety representatives. A safety representative can decide whether there is a danger to life, health and safety. I hope that this opportunity will be used when this type of situation is at risk.
i-6dac03c742168037-348	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. We have a great deal of trouble with the many wildlife accidents on our roads. The number increases year after year. To help the police find run-down animals, there are hunters. The terrible thing is that there are attacks and threats by criminal animal rights activists against precisely hunters who have been given the public mission to search for the injured game. This also applies to hunters who have been assigned protection hunting. According to the media, there is now at last a majority in parliament that wants to tighten the penalty for this. It's an announcement. My question to the Minister is: how will the government deal with this issue so that it becomes a sharp proposal, and will it be dealt with urgently by the government?
i-6dac03c742168037-351	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Oscarsson for his commitment. It is extremely important that we give clear signals to put an end to threats and harassment, whether it is against hunters or others who carry out important activities in our country. In the case of announcements, the government formally responds to budget proposals or letter 75. But, of course, I assume that for the responsible minister there is a discussion going on about whether there is also a need for law enforcement in this context. There is no doubt that we need to be clear about not accepting threats and harassment, whether it be against hunters or others. We've got a harder tone in society. It is more hate and threats in the media and social media and in society at large. There, too, we as politicians have a responsibility. It's about the tone we use and how we express ourselves on Twitter and social media. This is spreading otherwise. Let us take joint responsibility for reducing hatred and threats in society!
i-6dac03c742168037-355	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. This week, the Government, through Minister for Labour Eva Nordmark, presented the report on the partnership agreement on security, transition and employment protection and how to implement it. It is really good that a holistic approach is finally being taken on the issues of adaptability, skills supply, flexibility and security in the labour market. We see that education and labour market issues are becoming increasingly integrated with each other and that the conversion study support is an important piece of the puzzle in order to succeed in this integration. How does the Minister see that the transition study support will affect the education system as a whole and people's opportunities to grow, switch and study further throughout their lives?
i-6dac03c742168037-358	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The conversion grant is indeed a huge reform within what Minister Eva Nordmark presented together with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals on Monday. It is a reform that will affect lifelong learning through the lives of many people. We have waited many years for this opportunity for professionals. If the circumstances around one change in any way, a very good student support and a good education offer can now be used to further strengthen the labour market. At the same time, it builds Sweden as a country stronger, because with this we can also ensure that we can occupy the vacant jobs available on our labour market. This is a huge reform that will affect the labour market and individuals in Sweden in a very positive direction for many years to come.
i-6dac03c742168037-361	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. In two reports – one from 6 September 2019 and one from 13 October 2020 – the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticises the Swedish Transport Administration regarding the control of the status of roads and railways as well as the procurement of maintenance. In view of the number of billions involved, it is frightening reading. Equally frightening is the government's response to these letters. There are no specific measures to tackle the problems.
i-6dac03c742168037-365	Mr President, I would like to It is of course important to ensure that the resources we make available to – in this case – the Finnish Transport Administration to improve the standards on our roads and railways and to build new infrastructure are used as efficiently and well as possible. The Swedish National Audit Office has indeed done a good audit. Perhaps the most serious thing, I thought, was the sharp increase in road maintenance costs. The increase was almost 60%; it is not acceptable. Whether this is due to a lack of competition, long lead times or something else needs to be properly investigated. The government has acted. I have given a special assignment to Trafikverket, which they have reported, precisely to study the cost increases for infrastructure investments and maintenance. The Finnish Transport Agency has had to review its processes and make an assessment of what makes the costs increase more than they do for housing construction or in other parts of society. Of course, we will ensure that we use taxpayers' money in the very best and most effective way.
i-6dac03c742168037-370	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Eneroth. The working environment of public transport employees has deteriorated in recent years. The staff testifies to the fact that threatening situations are commonplace. Threats, vicious complaints, spitting and sometimes physical violence are part of situations that bus drivers, train drivers and train hosts have to count on at work – sometimes on a daily basis. The government has not taken any steps to reduce this. In the 2019 Seko survey, every second member of the Seko staff replied that there were threats at the workplace on a daily or weekly basis. The Swedish Democrats have long advocated access bans for violent people, increased staffing on trains and increased penalties for those who threaten or use violence against personnel on board. Nothing has happened, however, and you wonder if someone should have to put their lives to death before the government acts.
i-6dac03c742168037-375	Mr President, I would like to The question was recently asked here, and we received, among other things, answers from the Minister for Labour to what efforts are being made in relation to health and safety legislation. It is interesting that the issue and commitment now come from the Swedish Democrats, who have actively opposed the opportunities for safety ombudsmen and who have previously supported the closure and reduction of resources for occupational health and safety research. This is an issue where the employer should take a clear responsibility and where safety representatives can act by requesting a stoppage. Of course, the operators and others involved in public transport must also – it is usually the one involved – ensure that those who work there have a safe working environment and a good staffing. I follow this issue very closely in a good dialogue with the trade union movement. However, it is essentially also a question of the working environment. There we have a strong commitment, and we have moved forward positions since the turn of the government.
i-6dac03c742168037-379	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. A few weeks ago, I and some committee colleagues met with the new Plikt Council. Very high on their agenda for this year is the work against abusive treatment and harassment. Last winter there were reports of violations on a regiment, and the Pliktrådet told us that this occurs in several different places. We then had a discussion in committee on this. Now there has been another report showing that conscripts are experiencing offensive treatment and that this has increased by a few percentage points in recent years. I wonder what the Secretary of Defense is going to do about this very important issue.
i-6dac03c742168037-383	Mr President, I would like to I intend to continue with the work already carried out in the Swedish Armed Forces, to regulate this in the regulation letter that we have and to follow it up in relation to the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership. There is always extensive work in the Swedish Armed Forces on violations and harassment. The view is that such things are unacceptable. Out on the regiments you take hold of this kind of problem when they arise. When it comes to the example that Hanna Gunnarsson mentioned, I have been in contact with both the regimental leadership and conscripts on the regiment, and I know that this has been addressed in a thorough way. The last report that came was, as I understood, very much about violations between conscripts. Of course, these are things that must be observed in the units, but it is not always simply for the officers to discover. Any violation is unacceptable.
i-6dac03c742168037-388	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Tomas. During the week we saw how the police in Sweden achieved a great success as participants in an international operation initiated by the FBI in the United States. About 800 people were arrested in 16 countries, of which 155 were criminals in Sweden, almost 20 percent. This great effort was made possible by the FBI being able to access and monitor the communication of criminals, similar to how the French police succeeded through the Encrochat operation. But these successes are based on the Swedish police receiving information from other countries. In today's Sweden, the corresponding efforts cannot be carried out. The head of the Swedish police is asking for more possibilities for electronic surveillance. The Committee on Justice decided today on an announcement that meets this wish, but there Mr S. voted 'no'. The government highlights the good results of the monitoring exercise. Shouldn't Swedish law be changed so that Swedish police get the same conditions as colleagues in France and the United States? What exactly is the government's opinion?
i-4QQcpYYKMq7aJyKH1whkVv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for your commitment! Let us be very pleased with the success of the Swedish police when, having given us the resources and strengthened, not least, the international cooperation of the police, we have succeeded in arresting up to 155 people. According to police records, several crimes were prevented. This is a success. It is also a success that we can use international cooperation and its tasks to tackle what is often organised crime. This government has for a number of years been providing both resources to the police and strengthening the police's surveillance tools – not least camera surveillance and interception. I hope that we will continue to have a joint dialogue as to what means of interception we will have in the future. This is an important balance between, on the one hand, privacy and, on the other hand, the possibilities of protecting society and preventing crime.
i-6dac03c742168037-396	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Tomas. The Social Democratic-led government has made major investments in the production and distribution of biogas through the Climate Cell. Climate change has granted a total of 40 measures for new and expanded biogas production since 2015. Swedish municipalities also play an important role in the Swedish biogas model, which has made Sweden the world leader in biogas. They handle waste that can become substrates for biogas production, produce biogas and procure and buy biogas as fuel.
i-6dac03c742168037-400	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important, as Malin Larsson says, that we should now change the transport sector. We signed the Paris Agreement. We also have the ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In that case, emissions will be reduced by 70% by 2030. That's why we have not least rewarded biogas cars financially and invested in developing biogas buses. That is why we must also ensure that we can continue this transition. In the environmental car definition that we now have out for consultation, this means that the government in its procurement – it is today about some thirty biogas vehicles, as I understand it – will be clear to switch to clean electric vehicles. But for municipalities, regions and private individuals biogas vehicles are a very good option when you want to reset, not least to phase out fossil fuels.
i-6dac03c742168037-402	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. The Finnish Transport Agency in Jämtland County points out that due to low road funding, the county can now be forced to lower road standards. The county has 600 km of state road and 200 km of gravel road. Jämtland County has a lot of wear and tear on the roads as we have the important basic industries of the forest industry and tourism. But wear and tear are not taken into account in the distribution of money. Instead, the number of inhabitants controls the county laws. Jämtland County therefore receives only one tenth of the national average, which is clearly the lowest in the country. We therefore need new, fairer bases of calculation. My question will be: will the Minister of Infrastructure heed the proposal for new bases of calculation, a proposal that would provide a fairer distribution of road appropriations?
i-6dac03c742168037-406	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Saila Quicklund! I really appreciate the commitment to getting better standards on our roads, not least in rural areas. We, from the government's side, have made extra money in addition to those in national planes to roads in rural areas to ensure that quality is good. When it comes to redeployment of resources, because that is what lies in the matter, one should be aware that the specific efforts we make for BK4. There we increase the carrying capacity on the roads to cope with heavy transport from, for example, the forest industry in Jämtland. There is a redistribution to Jämtland, Norrbotten, Västerbotten and my own county of Kronoberg, while the metropolitan areas do not get much of it, because the needs are so much greater. Let's look at the distribution in the future. The important thing is that, overall, we have more resources. It will now be when the government invests nearly 900 billion in an infrastructure bill to improve the infrastructure over the next twelve years.
i-6dac03c742168037-411	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Higher Education. The Swedish Tax Agency has decided that universities of applied sciences should pay VAT on external teachers, consultants. The Administrative Court has verified the decision e.g. It will increase the cost of universities of applied sciences enormously. Many programmes are at risk of being closed down and will be closed down according to the universities of applied sciences themselves. This is at the same time as the search pressure is expected to increase significantly in universities of applied sciences, including through government decisions in connection with the pandemic. The universities of applied sciences have requested VAT compensation, which one might think is a smaller sum in a government budget. It's very necessary.
i-6dac03c742168037-415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. The University of Applied Sciences is under Anna Ekström's responsibility. I am responsible for college, research, space and study funding. The best answer to the honourable Member on this question, which was also quite specific, is enough for the honourable Member to put the question in writing or in another form to the Minister responsible for the University of Applied Sciences. It is simply the best answer in that way.
i-6dac03c742168037-417	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Infrastructure. Swedish Television has recently reported that hundreds of thousands of trucks drive illegal transport every day in Sweden. It is about illegal so-called cabotage transport, temporary transport in Sweden, which violates the rules that exist. This is about social dumping. It is also about environmental dumping, where we have less opportunity to control the emissions of these lorries. Denmark has introduced much tougher rules to prevent illegal cabotage. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what measures the Minister for Infrastructure intends to take to prevent these illegal cabotage operations through Sweden. I wonder whether the Minister for Infrastructure has allowed himself to be inspired by the Danish example of going beyond EU legislation to prevent social and ecological dumping in professional traffic.
i-F3jrUWjXGGJRZV8uzCWYDh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm! That's absolutely right. It is incredibly important to prevent illegal cabotage. That is why I and the government have today been able to present a proposal which means that we will increase sanctions by 50% in the case of illegal cabotage. These are the highest charges across the EU. These are the toughest rules in the EU. The rules are tougher and the fees are higher than in Denmark. It is because we want to demonstrate this government's clear commitment to preventing the illegal cabotage activities that exist. We've sent resources to the police for increased controls. We have introduced clamping so that you can lock the wheels of the trucks when the rules are not complied with. Then they have to pay the penalty fees before they can drive again. We have introduced a customer responsibility in which the person ordering transport must ensure that there is legal transport all the way. Today, we are increasing penalties by 50%. It will be the toughest rules and the highest fees across the EU. This is to prevent illegal cabotage.
i-6dac03c742168037-424	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The defence decisions that we here in Parliament decided on last December mean a 40% increase in the level of defence appropriations to 2025 in relation to 2020. It is the largest increase since the beginning of the 1950s and will significantly increase military capabilities in relation to the current situation. One area that receives a lot of attention in the defence decision is air defence. The decision will, among other things, complete the investment in the ground-based anti-aircraft system Patriot, and the Visby corvettes will receive a new robot anti-aircraft. Six combat aircraft divisions are retained. Four are re-armed to Jas 39E Gripen, and two fly on with C/ D versions. In total, about a hundred fighter planes are retained. In view of the major efforts that are now being made, I wonder how the Minister for Defence sees Sweden's air defence capabilities in terms of what it looked like before the government took office in 2014.
i-6dac03c742168037-428	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. What is becoming very clear now that we have the first Patriot unit delivered at the end of this year and with the development that then comes with additional deliveries is that we go from being able to defend point-by-point areas – one can call it base areas, smaller land areas – against having an air defence that can now defend entire regions. We'll be able to meet missile and air strikes from a long distance. We will be able to face long-range ballistic missiles. That means a proper upgrade. If it is then added together with the new robot air defence on the Visby corvettes and the actions themselves are coordinated between Patriot units and Visby corvettes, we get a very good and important impact force. That is something that a possible attacker must also deal directly with. It also means that we can use the Air Force more effectively.
i-6dac03c742168037-432	Mr President, I would like to The Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Digital Management to develop a digital infrastructure for vaccination certificates. The aim was that it would be in place on 1 June and then be put into service on 1 July. Yesterday, the European Parliament gave the green light to the EU's digital covid evidence.
i-5bQvkbXKffdwSYZZq8nCyx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Antoni, for the question! There is and has been intensive work going on at EU level precisely to get common covid passport systems. The ambition is that it can be implemented well. Here, my colleague Anders Ygeman has worked with the relevant authorities to ensure that it can enter into force so that we can all have it not least for travel. Then, of course, there is a lot of regulatory work where one thing is to ensure that the vaccination data are correct. In addition, the directive, which I understand it, has opened up the possibility of providing other information on infection. It is of course important that this information, if it is contained in that type of passport, is secured and verified by all the authorities involved. It's an intense job. But of course it should happen as soon as possible.
i-6dac03c742168037-438	Mr President, I would like to There are currently no resources available to deal quickly with measures and penalties in relation to occupational health and safety offences. Therefore, it was gratifying that the Social Democrats, like the Swedish Democrats, pushed the issue of increased limitation periods for occupational health and safety crimes in the election movement 2018. The Social Democrats also chose to include it in their election manifesto. When the government's efforts in the field of health and safety at work policy were then taken into account, it was strange that it was not possible to see the proposal for extended limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. The Swedish Democrats then chose to put the proposal on the table, and the Social Democrats chose to vote against their own proposal. I then asked why it voted against the Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark and received the answer: I do not know. It may be excusable when she had just taken up her position. But now it has been a while, and now Mr M has also supported the proposal. So there is a stable majority in this House to get through the election promise of the Social Democrats. Once again, however, the Social Democrats are voting 'no'. My question to the Minister for Labour is: why is it voting against its own proposal, which should be a natural part of the new strategy on health and safety at work? I also have a correction to the government: Sweden Democrats invest more money than the government in occupational health and safety research.
i-6dac03c742168037-444	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I have to say that I do not quite understand, and I am trying to seek eye contact with Socialist Members of Parliament here in this House. But I suggest that you, Magnus Persson, return to me in a written question, and I promise you will get an answer to it.
i-6dac03c742168037-446	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. There are many of us who follow the course of events on our roads. We all agree that there should be fair conditions for professional drivers and fair competition in the transport sector. We welcome the fact that the EU Member States have agreed on new rules that create the conditions for fair competition and conditions. At the same time, we see with dismay that we are trying to circumvent the rules in force and in this way we are competing out our Swedish haulage companies.
i-6dac03c742168037-450	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Abraham Halef. It is an incredibly important piece of work that we have been doing for a long time now in order to create order in professional traffic. It was freedom of movement that applied when we had an alliance government at one time, and there were no control possibilities for professional vehicles. Since then, since 2014, we have been working systematically on complaints, fines, ordering responsibility, increased resources for the police and earmarked resources for cabotage. It is a successful negotiation at EU level with mobility packages where rules on posting from day one will apply as early as February next year. Of course, we will prosecute illegal cabotage. Today, we have been able to make decisions and declare that we are doubling sanctions – increasing them by 50% – and tightening up the rules. We get the toughest rules across the EU to prosecute the criminal activity that is competing out Swedish hauliers – those who are doing well – and which also helps us to have unreasonable working conditions for foreign drivers in Sweden.
i-6dac03c742168037-455	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns total defence planning, for which the Minister of Defence is responsible. Today we have had draws in the Defence Committee regarding standby airports, and the Swedish Armed Forces have told us that they do not think digital remote control at some airports is so good for security reasons. I asked a question in committee, but Minister Eneroth referred to the Minister for Defence. That is why I would like to ask the question here. Will the Minister and the Government, through a clarified mission to the cybersecurity centre, increase preparedness to prevent or manage any foreign power from entering the remote control towers?
i-6dac03c742168037-458	Mr President, I would like to Security issues are something that should always be reviewed, always followed up and always taken with great care and seriosity. Here the responsible authority has the main responsibility. For all types of security issues, this should be part of the basic work to be carried out. What we have from the department is obviously a follow-up function when it comes to how these things can work, and we will normally live up to that.
i-6dac03c742168037-460	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. Sweden tops the list in Europe when it comes to deadly gun violence. Sweden is regarded as one of the worst problems in international efforts to combat organised crime. Nevertheless, Sweden has one of Europe's weakest laws against organised crime. This concerns the penalties against the gangs, which was noted when Swedish gang criminals were convicted in Denmark. This is a matter of authority, which is made visible when the French police or the FBI deliver evidence to Sweden through methods that are forbidden to use for Swedish police. The Swedish Democrats have proposed annually that Swedish legislation against organised gang crime should be tightened up and have encountered an annual opposition from the government. Mr President, I would like to When Sweden has the worst problems in Europe with organised gang crime, I wonder how the government has landed in the conclusion that we should be pleased to have at the same time the weakest legislation against organised gang crime.
i-WrUB6tw9BDqrgPpjnbhjLN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for the question! I don't share the reality statement. On the contrary, the government has provided considerable resources both to the police and to the whole legal chain and strengthened legislation. The result is not least now, when 155 gang criminals can actually be detained and when crimes can be prosecuted. The media are no longer only reporting on the crimes committed, but are increasingly reporting on trials that are going on because we are now making people responsible for the criminal acts that are being carried out. It is a gradual effort to create security in society, hopefully also in a broad consensus throughout the Swedish parliament. I don't like to think there would be any differences of opinion here. We need to prosecute gang crime, and we're going to do everything we can to make you feel safe. It's gang crime. This also applies to other crime, not least violence against women, where it is also extremely important that we focus on the right efforts and that we inject resources.
i-6dac03c742168037-472	Mr President, I would like to Work environment and work environment strategy is a large and important area. We have seen in recent years how tragically heavy but also how positive it sometimes weighs. I would like to focus on one of the positive aspects that, in the middle of this heavy pandemic year, was presented on Monday. The social partners have agreed on an important part for the work environment in Sweden: skills development. We see in different measurements of the type that the OECD makes that safety in the workplace is very dependent on not square and outdated rules, as we previously had in Sweden, but that one is strong in terms of competence. That is why the agreement that was confirmed on Monday with three ministerial letters is crucial for the health and safety at work in the country. Mr President, I would like to Now, for the first time, there is the opportunity for people who are in the middle of life and who need to build on their opportunities to develop in the labour market to acquire skills such as getting up to the equivalent of a full year of studies. Nurses can become midwives. Nurses can become nurses. Workers who may have seen new chances in life will have the opportunity to go to polytechnic education and get a fresh start on the labour market. It will be a new start not only for the person himself but also for Sweden. It will strengthen security and trust in the workplaces in Sweden tremendously. It is a bright spot in this heavy year. There has also been very heavy news. As a result of the pandemic, fewer people have been in the workplace, especially on construction sites. The number of fatal accidents at work has therefore decreased in Sweden, although 24 per year are still far too many. But the sad thing is that at the same time the number of occupational diseases reported has increased terribly. It's almost doubled, 84%. For women, it has more than doubled. In particular, it has been those working in the field of health and social care who have been affected by covid. The Government has made efforts to protect the working environment in the workplace. But we have pointed out the shortcomings that have existed in education, which is a central part of work environment work, in health care and care. Many have missed what they needed to face the pandemic. It's got to get a lot better. A health and safety situation that we have so far not debated very much in this House has also become the focus. A new report from the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work shows that around 40 per cent of all people in Sweden have worked from home during this year. I'm sure a lot of people will know that again. This has given rise to quite significant changes in the working environment during this year. It has become a completely different individualization. Work environment has changed in many ways. The Center Party has pointed out the rather obvious, which has not been given much thought; if we are to enter a digital era, the working environment in the home must also be adapted. It's about ergonomics, given the chair we're sitting on and the screen we're looking at. It is also about the social situation you end up in when you are suddenly alone at work. Previously they have had friends, coffeetimes and a community. It puts quite a lot of psychosocial pressure on many people. Not everyone likes to sit alone at home in front of the screen. That is why I would like to support reservation 28 on domestic work, which we have together with the Liberals. There are also great benefits, both environmental and other, from teleworking, for example in terms of flexibility. So it is not only negative. But what we point to in the exercise is that you have to think in a new way. You can't just send safety representatives to people to check the work environment. How, then, is it to be done? Is it to be checked digitally? In the motion we find that we need to have a dialogue about it in Sweden. We need to have a dialogue with employers. Although we may, hopefully, be on our way out of this heavy pandemic period, there needs to be a readiness for the future, which for good and bad will mean a much greater dependence on a digital work environment at home. In terms of work environment management, we also highlight that small is beautiful. It is important that we look at the conditions of the small company. There is the opportunity to have a much more close and wise work environment. However, since the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the work are often adapted to the large units, the large inspections and the standardised solutions to the problems often lack the dialogue with small businesses. You want to do the right thing, but it's not that easy. The measures and collaboration are not adapted to the work environment situation of the small company. Instead of being the best in terms of health and safety, which many small businesses are really aiming for, it can sometimes happen that you are completely excluded. This is not because you want to, but because, as one previous speaker has said, it is difficult to do the right thing instead of being easy to do the right thing. That is why we have a special opinion on it. As mentioned here, there are also occupational health and safety situations of a much more serious nature. It has to do with exploitation and vulnerability when people end up in a position of dependence. We will debate this on the following matter in this House. But we also have reservation 12, which is that the Swedish Work Environment Authority in situations where people are exploited and vulnerable should actually have the opportunity to start an investigative work. Otherwise, the police will have to pick up, and they will not always be able to deal with the situation observed on the spot. But as I said, it's coming back. Thus, even though this year has led to apparent – indeed – occupational health and safety problems in relation to covid and workers' vulnerability to the pandemic, it has also provided solutions. These are solutions where the parties can agree on proposals to strengthen skills and make the working environment much more strong and stable in our workplaces. It is about solutions where we dare to see the work environment's need for expertise in healthcare and solutions where we have started to see the work environment and the digital home environment as a natural part of work environment work. In all this sorrow and sorrow, it bodes well for the future. I support reservations 12 and 28.
i-6dac03c742168037-487	Mr President, I would like to We have so many Madam Presidents that you are almost surprised when there is a Mr President sitting in the chair! Today we are debating the government's strategy for health and safety at work, and although I think there are very good things in the strategy, there are of course a few things that are missing and that I think the government can do better. In order for the employer to be able to meet the requirements of the Work Environment Act for preventive and systematic work environment work, the employer needs to have a good knowledge of the work environment. There are many employers as well, but unfortunately there are also many who lack basic knowledge of both the work environment and how to do good work environment work. In the long run, this can lead to accidents at work, occupational injuries and sick leave. In order to address the problem of lack of knowledge, I would like to draw attention to a proposal presented by the Safety Officers of the Federation of Real Estate Employees and Seko that there should be requirements for health and safety training in order to start a business. I believe that the government should actually set up an investigation to consider rules on precisely mandatory elements of occupational health and safety knowledge for companies that want to employ. It is good that the Government's strategy aims to ensure that everyone is able, able and willing to work an entire working life, but I can see that concrete measures are a little bright with their absence. The lack of measures is unfortunate, but it is unfortunately in line with the policy pursued since the retirement age was raised in January 2020. The increase has not been followed by any measures that make it possible to work longer, such as improvements in the work environment and rehabilitation, a good occupational health care and better opportunities for further education late in life. Mr President, I would like to I take very seriously the many fatal workplace accidents that have occurred in recent years – most recently just a few days ago. It can never be accepted that people die as a result of their work. Every death is a tragedy for those involved, and it is unacceptable in a modern working life. I therefore believe that decisive measures are needed to reverse developments. The government has initiated a series of measures to reduce the number of fatal accidents in working life, and this work is positive. But if the decided zero vision is to be achieved, sharper measures are needed than those previously taken, not least with regard to the government's new vision of nobody dying at work. I therefore believe that the government should set up a government crisis commission that takes a holistic approach to fatal accidents at work and proposes concrete measures to reverse developments. A good working environment is an important prerequisite for a long and sustainable working life. Local and regional safety representatives play a crucial role in this work. In order for the safety representatives to be able to carry out their mission, they need to be given good conditions to carry out their mission, but unfortunately there are far too many and significant obstacles to this. What is needed now is for the role of safety representatives to be strengthened. Firstly, the situation of regional safety representatives needs to be changed to allow them access to more workplaces than is currently the case. If the employer is bound by collective agreements, it must reasonably mean that a regional safety representative is welcome at the workplace to support local work environment management. It is very unfortunate that during the last Parliamentary Session, a majority of the right-wing parties voted down the government's proposal for increased access rights. It is just as unfortunate that the committee is now continuing to show a lack of understanding of the importance of the activities of regional safety ombudsmen and the need for precisely greater access rights. Therefore, I believe that the government should come back with a proposal to amend the Work Environment Act so that regional safety representatives are given the right to work in companies with collective agreements even if there is no member at the workplace at that particular time. Secondly, I would like to point out that safety representatives must be given good conditions in terms of education, further training and further training in order for them to be able to carry out their mission. Today's regulations do not allow this to a sufficient extent, and many safety representatives I meet also feel that they are being questioned by their employers. Unlike the committee, I see reasons for changing the regulatory framework in this area. I think that the government should come back with a proposal that the duration of the safety representative training should be at least five days, with the statutory right to further education and training of at least one day per year. Furthermore, Mr President, there are a great many safety representatives who testify that they are excluded from planning and risk assessments. As a result, serious shortcomings in the working environment are at risk of being ignored and addressed. This increases the risk of incidents and accidents, which are fatal in the worst case. The Construction Workers' Association has proposed that the Swedish Work Environment Agency should be able to impose fines if safety representatives are not allowed to be involved in the risk assessment in the way that the law actually provides, and I am definitely in favour of the proposal. I therefore believe that the government should come back with proposals that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should be able to impose fines on employers if safety representatives are not allowed to participate in the risk assessment. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, the decision was taken to introduce 8 hours working day on 4 August 1919. It happened after decades of union struggles, and industrial workers then went from 16 hours of exhausting jobs to 8 hours – finally. Since then, nothing has happened, except in 1971 – 50 years ago – when the five-day week was introduced and a normal working week was 40 hours long. I agree with the committee that the social partners have a very central role to play in dealing with working time issues, but, unlike the committee, I believe that there is a need for clearer support in legislation that can form the basis for negotiations and deviations from collective agreements. The protection of workers in the law needs to be strengthened in several ways. There is a need for a more humane working life with room for more people, where people are not worn out prematurely but are able to work until retirement age. Increasing the influence of workers on the organisation and scope of working time is therefore central to achieving a sustainable working life. There is also a need for better conditions for couples to live on an equal footing. Shorter working hours, i.e. a general reduction in working hours, would be a decisive step in such progressive and freedom-enlarging development. I regret that the committee is once again closing the door to the possibility of moving in this direction. Furthermore, it is not, in fact, reasonable for workers to have to pay with their health and leisure time in order to meet the employer's need for flexibility and precision staffing, for example in the case of shared tours. The attempts made by the trade unions concerned to limit shared trips through agreements have been good, but there too is a need for support in legislation, for example through some kind of ban that can form the basis for negotiations and deviations from collective agreements. The rules on daily rest periods should also be simplified and improved. It is important to have clear protection legislation for people who work on uncomfortable and irregular working hours, as night and shift work is hard on people. We all know that. An important issue is also to review the regulatory framework and the compensation system for on-call time. A change in the Working Time Act would, among other things, give women-dominated occupational groups affected by the current regulation of on-call time the opportunity to work full-time and pay for all the time they are actually at the employer's disposal, including during on-call time. A further concern is to strengthen the rights of workers whose employers have re-regulated former full-time jobs into part-time jobs. In Norwegian working time legislation, for example, there has been a regulation since 2013 that gives part-time employees who have worked more time the right to expand their employment. I very much welcome the fact that there are trade unions that are pushing this issue in contractual negotiations with employers. It would be a good thing if we looked at a similar proposal for Sweden as well. In order to address the various issues I have just raised, I believe that the government should, among other things, take the following steps: 中 set up an investigation tasked with highlighting the possibilities for a general reduction in working time 中 return with legislative proposals that limit the so-called split tours
i-6dac03c742168037-511	Mr President, I would like to I know I've oversold my speaking time, but I have a few final words. The current Swedish class society is reflected in working hours. It is mainly officials who get shorter working hours through collective agreements today. In fact, 20 percent work less than 40 hours a week. If you are a worker, about 96 percent have no reduction in working hours, but an increase in overtime. At a time when a large part of the population realizes that the fruit of wage labour is increasingly spelled overtime, stress, wear and burnout, the issue of working time should be so much more important than it is. That is why I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation 29.
i-6dac03c742168037-514	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the Christian Democrats are, of course, behind all their reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 25. The working environment is crucial for both companies and individuals. A good working environment where you feel safe is good because it leads to good results. Similarly, a poor working environment leads to uncertainty and poor results. This means that health and safety issues must always be up-to-date and develop into an even better standard. Of course, much has happened over the past 50 - 75 years. Thankfully, the most obvious and disgusting working environments have disappeared. But that does not mean that the work is done – not at all. As long as the Swedish labour market does not reach the obvious goal of a zero vision of fatal accidents in working life, we all have more to do. We Christian Democrats see the obvious problem that there is no overall picture of what causes fatal accidents in connection with the work done. That is why we want a proper analysis of the causes of fatal accidents. There is a need for a national strategy, a proper analysis and a long-term perspective in that work. Unfortunately, Mr President, the committee rejects this fundamentally self-evident proposal in order to achieve the zero vision of work-related fatal accidents. Mr President, I would like to No one has been able to miss the coronapandemy, which has put great strain on the whole country and the whole world. There's a lot of infected and sick people. Many are hospitalized, and more than 14 000 people have died with or from Corona. At the same time as it became a strain for all of us it was an extra tough strain for those who work in health care. Many have worked long shifts and overtime and been given cancelled leave and vacations. Mr President, I would like to That's not enough. When the pandemic struck, it turned out that the preparedness was poor, really bad. In the care of the elderly, there were not enough protective equipment, even when it came to the purely basic as protective gloves, mouthguards, visors and aprons. I think we all remember the pictures and reports of the desperate attempts to protect ourselves by self-making visors of overhead film. The important thing now, however, is not to complain and point the finger, but to build a readiness for the next crisis, because we can be sure that it will come in some form. We Christian Democrats believe it is important that the Safety and Health Act makes it clear which protective equipment must necessarily be available in different health care situations. It is also important that this protective equipment is stored and available when a major crisis occurs. Unfortunately, Mr President, the committee rejects this too. However, as the Corona crisis now subsides and hopefully disappears, it is not over for everyone. Among health and care professionals there is a high risk that almost overwhelming work will lead to psychosocial problems for the individual. We believe that we need to be able to monitor this properly in order to be able to provide individualised support. It would also be very interesting for this House to have a national picture of whether and if so how much mental health has been affected for health care personnel, in order to be better prepared next time. These proposals are not supported in committee either. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the work environment is a major and important issue that each individual company has to follow up and develop systematically. But not least for smaller companies, it may be difficult for various reasons to fully comply with the rules and adapt their activities. Therefore, controls are of the utmost importance, and the implementation of the controls lies with the Swedish Work Environment Authority. That is all well and good, but our view is that what is being done today is not enough. Therefore, we propose that a pilot project within the Swedish Work Environment Agency should be initiated, which includes a self-declaration from the company about its own workplace's work environment. Such a pilot project could have at least two positive effects: on the one hand, that companies must continuously review their working environment every year in connection with the submission of this declaration and, on the other hand, that the number of inspections and monitoring of the working environment is increasing. Not surprisingly, Mr President, the committee did not approve of this either. As a result, we Christian Democrats will continue to work towards a strong, individual and developed working environment. We'll be back with more proposals in a year.
i-6dac03c742168037-526	Mr President, I would like to I will try to make a leap for my colleague Arman Teimouri in the debate. Having a job is not just about making everyday life go together. A job, when it works well, strengthens your well-being and independence and gives a feeling that together we contribute to our common welfare. But working life must also be sustainable. Accidents, crime and other abuses must be minimised and effectively combated. Liberals welcome the fact that the government, with its new strategy on health and safety at work, is taking important steps towards a policy for a better working environment for all, but there are several perspectives that we believe the government should have included. Madam President, I would like Among other things, the occupational health and safety strategy is inadequate in creating the conditions for employers to prioritise preventive measures against sick leave. Similarly, it is important to give employers incentives to prevent stress in the workplace. Liberals believe that the government should set up an investigation to suggest how stress related to mental illness, bullying and sexual harassment can be included to a greater extent in the health and safety regulations. This, Madam President, is important from the point of view of gender equality, where new mothers often fall into working hours but are expected to produce about the same as before, which often naturally causes a lot of stress and subsequent sick leave. Throughout, we would say from the Liberals that there is a lack of an entrepreneurial perspective in the document that is going to affect thousands of entrepreneurs around the country. Employers generally understand the importance of creating a good working environment for their employees. The regulatory framework must make it easier for entrepreneurs to do the right thing, not just increase the burden of accounting. That is why we would have liked the strategy to have had a larger entrepreneurial perspective where carrots and demands could have gone more hand in hand. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Work Environment Authority plays an important role in the work environment on the Swedish labour market. The work deals with important issues about reducing the risks of ill health and accidents at work and improving the working environment from an overall perspective. But a small authority with a great responsibility requires a sharper governance and political will for the work to be as effective as possible. In particular, we see four elements that should be improved. Firstly, we Liberals are good friends of both statistics and above all good research. We need to do a review of the work and procedures of the Swedish Work Environment Authority in order for the Agency to focus its efforts more closely on the type of workplaces that according to statistics and research are over-represented in workplace accidents and occupational health and safety crimes. Secondly – we have said it before, and we say it again – we need to give a mission to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and DO to facilitate tips and complaints, especially with regard to mental illness, bullying and sexual harassment. Thirdly, we need to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers in workplaces. Having said that, we welcome the Government's proposal to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers. We are not going to deal with this proposal here and now, but we would have liked the government to have raised these important issues in the strategy for health and safety at work. Fourthly, we need to give an assignment to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to provide more advice and support on good work environment to employers in healthcare. This applies to support and care to reduce stress, musculoskeletal injuries and other ill health. Given what health care and care have been through over the past year, the government should have learned that lesson. Madam President, I would like We would also like to highlight the important role of occupational health care in promoting health. Its task is to help companies and workplaces to develop the physical and psychosocial working environment in the long term. It aims to prevent ill health among employees and to create the conditions for a long-term sustainable working life. We need to develop health promotion work. It has therefore been important to enable and intensify the work of occupational health care services for health promotion purposes. Madam President, I would like As has already been said from the speaker's seat in the debate, we have all had to change in different ways over the past year. Only here in Parliament have we adapted to the reality. At least we're spoiled here having an office to go to. But when homework has become more the rule than the exception, there have been amazing solutions to getting the right office feeling even at home. Our ironing boards have acted as standing tables, and books have fixed the height of the computer. One hour we are on the couch – probably Arman, not me – the other we are sitting on a chair in the kitchen and the third in a sun lounger on the balcony – probably also Arman, Madam President. That's how it goes around. We really get to appreciate the creativity we still have, but with that said – we can laugh a little when we feel that we're coming out of the worst – there are still big challenges, perhaps especially at home work. The examples of books and ironing boards are familiar to most people, but it is also well known that many have felt hampered by not having the technology they want and that broadband is malfunctioning. Above all, it is about the social when colleagues are only visible on a screen and it is not possible to have a coffee in the corridor and talk a little bit about how the weekend has been. Now that the government is doing this strategy work for the working environment, it is important to acknowledge the situation here and now. We realize that laws and rules have not always followed. Where is the line between voluntary and expected homework, and how should working hours be handled in homework? What is the employer's responsibility for the psychosocial work environment at home? These are just some of the questions we need answers to. Madam President, I would like Finally, I want to go back to where I started. Liberals welcome the fact that the government, with its new strategy on health and safety at work, is taking important steps towards a policy for a better working environment for all. At the same time, we would have liked the government to have included further perspectives in that strategy. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-6dac03c742168037-544	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by expressing my pleasure at the great interest in health and safety at work expressed by the Swedish Parliament by addressing the 71 reservations and the government's strategy for health and safety at work in this report. It is noticeable that the active work carried out by the Government in the field of health and safety at work has an effect on the working environment in our working life. Today we are discussing the Government's strategy for health and safety at work 2021 – 2025. It is the government's second strategy on health and safety at work that the Riksdag takes a position on. We have also taken note of an evaluation of the previous strategy on health and safety at work, which shows that it has had an effect. But, of course, we need to move on. The last year, or the last 18 months, has been an eventful time. Covid-19 has very much affected the working environment. As several other speakers have mentioned, occupational diseases have increased, mostly as a result of the pandemic that we have experienced and, in part, are still living through. The strategy focuses on four areas: A sustainable working life so that everyone is able, able and willing to work an entire working life A healthy working life that contributes to development and well-being 中 a safe working life so that no one should risk their health because of the job 中 a labour market without crime and cheating – a poor working environment should never be a means of competition. It is the salute we have in the work environment strategy that has been developed. We have higher ambitions in this strategy on health and safety at work than in the one we have had so far. They need to be higher in order for no one to get hurt or get sick of the job. Working life should offer everyone who works security, development and the opportunity for good health. Creating healthier workplaces is an important part of promoting health and should be a central part of daily work environment work. A good working environment provides room for people with different backgrounds and different abilities in working life. The government also extends the zero vision of fatal accidents to the fact that no one should have to die as a result of their work. It is about workplace accidents that lead to death but also about work-related mortality due to, for example, illness, unhealthy stress, cancer and suicide. These are important parts of an issue that we may not have talked about much before. The safety and health rules must provide the same level of protection for women as for men, regardless of their occupation, industry or sector. The work environment framework needs to be reviewed. It has been announced by the government that we will continue to look at what our legislation looks like. The Swedish Work Environment Authority should of course be adapted for today's and tomorrow's working lives. It is clear that we were all quite affected when the pandemic struck and we saw quite a few examples of a lack of equipment, protective equipment and others, which were needed to care for those in greatest need of care. This is what I think you can never be fully prepared for. But may have plans to work in a different way with pandemics, as we may see in a different way from before. It has been a period of a lot of telework. We Members have experienced it, but so have many others who are currently active in the country. Here I want to beat a punch for the report that the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, has produced regarding homework and how important and valuable it is to have a good work environment work even for those who work at a distance. The employer has full responsibility for this. What is also important is that we have a good working environment that ensures competence in important sectors. Here the government and the cooperation parties have invested a great deal of support in the public sector in ensuring good quality in health care and other parts. Another important aspect is the fight against working life crime. I wasn't going to go into that much, because that's what we're going to debate here later. An important part of being able to carry out good work environment work is the partner model, i.e. that you have employers and employees who have good knowledge of work environment work and the value and importance of this. It cannot be overemphasised how important the safety ombudsmen are. Unfortunately, today we see a trend in the number of safety representatives in our workplaces falling. It feels like an issue where we really need to take a strong stance to ensure that we appoint safety representatives and preserve the partner model we have, which is so established in the Swedish labour market. We are talking about the party model in many other situations, when it comes to minimum wage and other parts. It is at least as important in terms of the protection organisation and the organisation of health and safety at work. The Swedish democrats talked about the Regional Safety Officers. I can only regret that there was no support in this House for granting regional safety representatives access to workplaces where there are collective agreements but there is no local work organisation. It is an issue that we will pursue in the forthcoming election movement. We will seek a mandate to really get to a protection organisation that is worthy of the name. Not least the time we have now lived through shows that it is needed in this part. In 2019 the Regional Safety Officers carried out 56,000 visits to different workplaces, so they really have an important job to do. With those words, Madam President, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved, for the strategy to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-6dac03c742168037-570	Madam President, I would like A good working environment is essential for a well-functioning labour market. Everyone who works in Sweden must have a working environment that provides the conditions to both be able to and want to work an entire working life. It is important for the individual but also crucial for the whole of society, not least in the light of the skills challenge we face. Creating healthy workplaces is an important part of promoting people's health while contributing to the profitability of businesses and society. No one should risk life or health because of the job, and it is welcome that the government continues to prioritise and strengthen work to combat fatal accidents at work. A poor working environment should never be allowed to be a means of competition for rogue companies. Here the Swedish labour market model has an important role to play. However, the Swedish Work Environment Authority's supervision work also needs to work well. Madam President, I would like The working environment is also a gender equality issue. We know that nurses and other staff in home care and home care and in nursing homes are on sick leave to a greater extent than other occupational groups. This is a warning bell, and we must act. A sustainable working life in the women-dominated health and care professions is perhaps one of our most important gender issues. We are talking about nurses, nurses and nurses who have for too long sacrificed mental and physical health to care for others. Modern welfare policies need to take this seriously. We cannot have care and medical care that makes the staff ill. The Environmental Party's and the Government's recovery bonus is an important part of speeding up the journey towards a sustainable working life and increasing the influence of staff. The Coronapandemia has been incredibly tough for the employees in healthcare, but the need to strengthen the working environment in healthcare and care has also been great in the past. Prioritising the working environment for those working in health and long-term care is therefore important in both the short and the long term. Fewer people will have to get sick from their work and more people will have to want to work in these professions if we are to cope with welfare in the future. The recovery bonus is not a short-term bet. For 2021 there are SEK 300 million allocated and thereafter a total of SEK 1 billion per year. The Environmental Party will give high priority to the working environment in health care and care. Madam President, I would like In the longer term, the Green Party wants more people to gain more power over their own time. We want to bring about reforms that reduce normal working hours and increase people's ability to influence their working hours and working conditions. Our goal is to take out our increased prosperity in more time for each other rather than in gadget consumption. As I have previously highlighted in this House, a few steps along the way towards a reduction in normal working hours may be to allow older people to go down in working hours while maintaining pay or to offer people to take their salary increase in more free time instead. Another may be reduced working hours while maintaining pay in heavy, female-dominated occupations, such as health care and care. Madam President, I would like The Government emphasises in the strategy for health and safety at work that offensive discrimination, harassment and bullying should not occur in the Swedish labour market. I think we all agree on this. It is extremely important that work against discrimination and harassment in the workplace continues. Therefore, we need strong anti-discrimination legislation as well as sufficient resources for both the Discrimination Ombudsman and the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The government has strengthened this work in recent years, and much has been done at government level. However, there is reason to come back to these issues when the report on effective and effective supervision of the Non-Discrimination Act comes up with its final report in October. Madam President, I would like Work is a major part of our lives. It is important that people can feel good and secure throughout their working lives, not least at a time when the labour market is changing. Therefore, the government's strategy is both welcome and necessary. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6dac03c742168037-583	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's efforts against the exploitation of labour. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the report. It is gratifying to see that the committee agrees with the demands of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats for changing the rules of confidentiality, as this is a problem and something that limits the possibility of carrying out joint checks against working life criminality. But the Swedish Democrats had wanted to go a little further. It is about coordination, mapping the scope of labour exploitation, clearer directives to our authorities and investigating how the law should be designed so that it is clear that it is illegal to charge for a job or to recover wages from an employee. The Swedish Democrats note that the majority of the committee refers to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's mission within the framework of the Government's new strategy on health and safety at work, which we do not think is enough because it is a strategy and a vision that lacks sharp proposals. We have here a problem that is escalating, and that requires sharp proposals and not visions. Foreign workers who have been forced to pay for their jobs and who are exploited in the Swedish labour market are not helped by visions, but here action is required.
i-6dac03c742168037-586	Madam President, I would like We are debating today a report concerning the National Audit Office's report on the state's efforts against the exploitation of labour. The theme itself, i.e. the exploitation of people working in Sweden, is great – unfortunately too large – and very important. The Swedish labour market has a widespread working life criminality. The results of the work carried out under such conditions can sometimes be highly visible. Yet the people who do the work and the people who exploit them and profit from their work are quite invisible phenomena in Swedish social debate. There are probably quite a lot of people in Sweden who don't know that this is part of the reality here at home. In an article in the latest issue of the magazine Clarté, trade union activist Emil Boss describes what happens primarily to migrant workers in Sweden. I quote a small paragraph: "A middle-aged chef who came to Stockholm from Egypt five years ago put it this way: I have worked in Egypt, I have worked in Greece and in Sweden. It is only in Sweden that I have met workers who work for food and a sleeping space. This is unusual in most African countries. ..................................................... A burrower from Albania worked on the construction of the Mall of Scandinavia. The team drilled at 50 meters all night and was then driven directly to a new object in the morning. His longest shift was 36 hours in a row. "Sweden is one of the worst countries to work in, but many still think it's good here," he says. ..................................................... This is not a reality for everyone who works in Sweden, but it concerns a large enough group of people in our country today to make it clear that it is a major social problem. Unfortunately, even in addition to this type of extreme exploitation, there are rogue players who dump wages and conditions and systematically violate laws and rules in order to gain competitive advantages. Labour crime therefore affects workers, businesses and ultimately society as a whole. Workers are exploited and forced to work at low wages and poor conditions, which also lowers wages and conditions for other employees in vulnerable sectors. Companies that comply with laws, agreements and rules are being competed out by rogue operators. Society loses billions through non-taxation. To stop this development requires strong action by the state. A central part of this work is, of course, to prevent the exploitation of labour at all on the Swedish labour market. It can be noted that the majority exploited are foreign workers, many of whom are non-EU labour migrants, so-called third-country nationals. This is not surprising, unfortunately, because the current labour immigration regulations introduced by the bourgeois grouping, formerly known as the Alliance, plus the Green Party are rigged to enable employers to exploit workers with low wages and poor conditions. It was expected that it would have these effects when the regulations came into place. In order to prevent labour immigrants from being exploited in the Swedish labour market, the regulations for labour immigration need to be fundamentally changed. The Left Party has long demanded that this be done. There needs to be a link between labour shortages and labour migration in different sectors. The position of migrant workers must also be strengthened in order for more people to be able to and dare to speak up, so that problems can be overcome. The Swedish National Audit Office's report mentions the regulations for labour migration as one of several factors that have the potential to counteract the exploitation of labour. However, for reasons of space, the Swedish National Audit Office chooses not to touch upon the regulations for labour migration within the framework of the review, although this is a major cause of labour exploitation that characterises parts of the Swedish labour market. It's a bit remarkable. A comprehensive change in the current labour immigration framework should be one of the most central measures that the state can take in this area. Unfortunately, the issue has been somewhat stalled because of the unfortunate January agreement, where the government has committed itself not to remedy the problems as it would make the neo-liberal cooperation parties sad. It is a regrettable approach to a very serious social problem. Madam President, I would like Although an important aspect is lacking in the review, it is nevertheless a good and interesting review that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out. There are a number of recommendations to the government, and some of them we think the government should have handled differently. This includes the recommendation that the government ensure that appropriate authorities produce information that is available to all risk groups on workers' rights and obligations, information on where to turn and how to obtain help and support if you are exposed to labour exploitation, and a process of protection and support adapted to the victim of labour exploitation. It is a very important point that it is those who are affected who must have stronger opportunities and support to speak out. This is the only way we can get to the bottom of the problem, not by a mass of police and other officials running around trying to solve these problems in the myriad of workplaces that exist. There is therefore a potential for improvement here, and that is something that the government should tackle. The Swedish National Audit Office also recommends that the Government investigate how risk groups for labour exploitation can be better able to demand an agreed or outstanding salary, how housing standards and housing costs can be imposed on the employer when an employee is offered housing as part of the employment, and whether the authorities should supervise working conditions for foreign workers in industries with an increased risk of labour exploitation. It is precisely with regard to the opportunities and rights of the authorities that there are things to discuss. But one must certainly strengthen the right of those affected by exploitation to claim their outstanding salary. There are also international regulations that say that if you have done a job, for example, it does not matter what migrant status you have, but you should at least be entitled to your salary. And there must be structures to support those people who are in a very vulnerable situation. The government chooses not to proceed with that recommendation either, and that is regrettable. The Left Party therefore has a reservation number 2 in the report, which I support. I also note that there is a unanimous committee on a motion by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats who also support the Left Party. This is an issue that has previously been highlighted by the Tax Agency, among others. It is a question of changing the confidentiality rules in order to facilitate co-operation between authorities in the work against the exploitation of labour. Finally, it is, I am pleased to say, a united committee which is now making an announcement to the government on this matter. Otherwise, in these political contexts, it has often been a long way off with proposals that challenge companies, which are said to need business secrecy, while privacy issues relating to individuals' rights tend instead to be handled fairly lightly in the debate. There is, in any case, a happy agreement in this case. There are also a lot of other things that you can do much more widely to tackle the exploitation of labour. It is about strengthening trade union rights, strengthening the position of safety representatives and more. But these are broad societal issues that we will return to in many other contexts.
i-6dac03c742168037-607	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals and for reservations 1 and 2 to be rejected. This is a very urgent report and an urgent report that the Swedish National Audit Office has produced regarding efforts to combat the exploitation of labour. Like the previous speaker, I may think that the National Audit Office might have looked a little more at the parts relating to the exploitation of labour. Today we have the legislation that we have. There has been a great deal of work on the subject of labour crime. It is good that there is a broad consensus on this in this House. Then we will see what it will look like when we come to sharp proposals in the future. I will just mention a few things that have happened with regard to this work and that we may sometimes forget quickly. Lex Laval was demolished on July 30, 2020. There were new posting rules, which gave opportunities to demand Swedish collective agreements. It was part of an improved working environment. We have given 30 million more when it comes to the possibility of working with work crime, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority has the task of coordinating the work. This means that there have been more checks and strikes. More than 4,000 checks have been carried out since 2018. The focus of controls has been on the most risky industries, such as construction, the beauty industry and the restaurant industry. In 2019, one out of ten controlled companies chose to close down all or part of their business due to the deficiencies found. And over $10 million has been fined. It has also seen trafficking in human beings, hazardous working environments, dangerous and unprotected work machines, a lack of safety equipment and a breach of subsidies. None of this belongs in the Swedish labour market, so we really have reason to move forward with implementing measures to curb this. An investigation was submitted from Mikael Sjöberg, Authorities in collaboration against labour crime. It may sound rather dry, but it is a very readable investigation that I can recommend to you who have not taken part of it. There are recommendations which have been submitted to the government and which are now being prepared in the Government Office to come up with a position in this House. I can promise you who listens to the debate that we will do everything we can from the Social Democrats to overcome the problem of working life crime. Madam President, I would like Once again, I support the committee's proposal and reject the two reservations.
i-6dac03c742168037-617	Madam President, I would like As I said, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's efforts to combat the exploitation of labour force is being discussed today. The exploitation of labour is a serious and well-known problem on the Swedish labour market and also a serious social problem, and unfortunately the development is going in the wrong direction. It is a question of workers not receiving a salary or a low one. It is also about long working days, poor living environments, dangerous work environment and more. This also means that companies that comply with laws and regulations are disadvantaged in terms of competition, which is bad.
i-6dac03c742168037-620	The Swedish National Audit makes the observation that the state's efforts against the exploitation of labour have – heard and amazed – major shortcomings. The shortcomings are found in all parts of the system and, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, are mainly due to the fact that the government has not given the authorities a mandate and clear mandate to counteract the problem. The government is recommended to give clear mandates and mandates to the authorities in this area in order to implement measures. As I said, exploitation of labour is a serious and growing social problem, and we believe that the government should take the criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office very seriously. Just not agreeing or saying that we are doing a lot and intending to continue along this path is not enough. The government cannot avoid the sharp criticism that the government has not given the authorities a mandate in this area and clear mandates to counter the problem. The government speaks warmly of more cooperation in its letter but does not do enough to remove the obstacles to cooperation that exist. One such obstacle is the confidentiality of the authorities. In Ds 2021:l Authorities in collaboration against work crime are proposed to investigate confidentiality. The Moderates agree with the investigator's proposal that the Government should urgently set up an investigation to identify the most appropriate legal means to enable all or a subset of the cooperating authorities to share information with each other in the context of joint control work. That should be self-evident, Madam President. This concerns information on which establishments are considered appropriate to control public authorities jointly, information which is a prerequisite for the practical implementation of controls, such as the addresses of establishments, information on whether enterprises in a particular establishment are beneficiaries of labour market policy support and the like, and information obtained during the checks carried out. In this context, it is also proposed that the investigation should in particular consider the effectiveness and possible design of a breach of confidentiality rule in law for the purpose of the investigation and assess the possibilities for the intended transfer of information within the current regulatory framework. Furthermore, the investigation should assess whether measures are needed to increase the effective ability of public authorities to share information under the Intelligence Obligations Act in the event of incorrect payments by welfare systems, which is an important issue. The Government mentions very briefly and cautiously in its letter that it considers it important for the cooperating authorities to be able to exchange the information necessary for effective and effective control activities. Increased information sharing must always be balanced against personal integrity. The Government intends to review the need for changes to the regulatory framework on public access and confidentiality that may be required to enable improved cooperation between authorities. But that is not enough. The follow-up motion by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the report reads as follows: we believe that the government should come back by April 2022 at the latest with proposals on how the confidentiality rules can be changed in order to counteract the exploitation of labour and improve the possibility of administrative cooperation on issues such as these. It is extremely gratifying that our follow-up motion on such an important issue also became the committee's announcement to the government.
i-6dac03c742168037-633	Madam President, I would like I know that we often debate difficult issues here and that it is important that the options are clear. But sometimes it is also clear when we agree. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on exploited people who have ended up in a criminal context where they are exposed to everything from human trafficking to completely unreasonable conditions has brought together the entire Parliament in a common view that everything must be done to prevent this exploitation. Let me remind you of something that has not been mentioned very much in the debate. What the report really points out is that the people who have ended up in a situation where they have been mirrored and where the authorities have been informed about conditions that are not at all right should know their right and not be afraid to go to the authorities. They should also be able to be right and thus be able to demand pay and have housing conditions corrected if they are not as they have been told to them and the authorities. We are all behind this. In addition, we have wisely agreed that the confidentiality barriers that have existed against sharing information between different authorities need to be changed urgently so that information can be shared, the problems seen, access them and change them. This is what the Center Party and others, as well as the government, have been running. In another motion put forward by the Center Party in another report, the Centre Party has also highlighted what this report is about. When the Swedish Work Environment Authority inspects you should also be able to start investigating, because otherwise the police lose very important information if there is exploitation or human trafficking. When they come in, they cannot do as much, and they also have many other tasks. The Swedish Work Environment Authority should therefore be able to help the police with information. Of course, I am not calling for this here and now because it belongs to another report, but it is close to today's issue. So much for unity and support behind it. I will also say something about those people who have come to Sweden and wanted to be part of our labour market and who in many cases could really have contributed if they had not been exposed to exploitation. To them, we should not say that our goal is to stop their ability to come to Sweden and contribute to the shortage professions, for example as chefs, as mentioned, or, as the most common is, in professions that are not affected by this type of exploitation in the IT sector. There is a huge wave now to confuse the situation of these vulnerable people with the fact that we all want to defend them and to stop labour migration at all. The extreme cases are confused with an overall extremely successful labour migration in a large number of sectors that are critical to supporting Swedish jobs and development here. I'd like to remind you of something. If a person is in a vulnerable position, does it provide security to know that the slightest fault that the employer makes means that the person can be thrown out of the country? It is sometimes referred to as competence expulsions, as it is often people with high skills who end up in such situations. Or does it give the person security to know what applies and be able to demand their right and that the police investigate and stop and that the Swedish Work Environment Authority starts with it? It is, of course, the latter, not to tighten the thumb screws, which many in this House want to do for those who want to do right in Sweden and for those who then actually want to do the right thing for them. We should punish those who do wrong, who should be detected and who should be sanctioned, and help those who are vulnerable. The security of successful labour migration, which exists in many countries and in many places, also essentially in Sweden, lies in the fact that the rules are clear, simple and clear and that, when someone violates them, they know their right and that it can be prosecuted. So please, in this debate, when we protect these people, let us not make them even more vulnerable by going against labour immigration as a principle and idea at the moment we want to stand up to those people's defence!
i-6dac03c742168037-644	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that all exploitation of labour, of people, should be fought all the time. That is the summary of the exploitation of labour. It is above all for the sake of the individual, the individual who is exposed to atrocities, but also to society as a whole, because the exploitation of labour puts an end to competition. Honest companies who want to do and do the right thing are being knocked out on the market because others are cheating and pandering. It is not sustainable in any way. Thankfully, the entire Parliament agrees on this. It can always be attractive when you have time in the speaker's chair to hold on for a long time, but I am not going to do that today because we agree. It is clear that we have the same goal, that no one should be exploited as a labour force in Sweden. I am very pleased that the committee agreed to our and Moderates' motion to make sure that the confidentiality legislation works better, even if there were five in twelve. It's always better late than never. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-6dac03c742168037-648	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that labour migration is good for Sweden. It enables companies to recruit the skills they need and thus grow and compete in a global economy. In the long term, this creates more jobs in Sweden. It also gives us tax money to pay for welfare, and it allows people from other countries to make a better life for themselves. Sweden is undoubtedly a country with a need for international competence. Today there is a shortage of labour in both low-skilled and highly-skilled professions. The purpose of the Swedish labour immigration framework is to add skills to sectors and sectors with a shortage of labour under serious and controlled conditions. However, there are also serious problems linked to labour migration. Labour exploitation is a major and growing social problem, despite all the efforts made to counter it. The exploitation mainly affects migrant workers and means that the employee receives low or no salary, long working days, dangerous working environment and poor living conditions. The exploitation risks leading to serious companies being competed out by companies exploiting their labour force. And in order to compete for international labour, Sweden must be an attractive country for foreign workers. Madam President, I would like The trend in fraud, fraud and crime at work is worrying and is heading in the wrong direction. It is of the utmost importance that we address these problems. People from other countries should not have to work under worse conditions than Swedes, and employers who deceive and exploit immigrant workers must be discovered and prosecuted. The Green Party has been involved in the introduction of several control systems in recent years to strengthen supervision. For example, we have introduced requirements for employers to report employers' contributions and staffing systems every month so that authorities can check who works at a workplace. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's report clearly shows that the efforts made so far are not enough. An investigation is now working to improve both control and sanctions further. The investigation is reviewing the regulatory framework and will propose measures to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, stop the focus on skills, facilitate attracting talent, counteract abuse of labour migration and prevent exploitation of people. At the beginning of February, the interim report of the inquiry presented proposals for increased controls on the conditions for migrant workers. These are important proposals that have now been consulted. However, it is important to recall that the Swedish labour market model means that it is primarily the social partners who negotiate wages and other conditions on the labour market. This principle also applies to migrant workers. The final report of the investigation shall be presented in November. At the end of this month, we will also have to take note of the report by the special investigator who has been tasked with analysing whether we need to further strengthen the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. Madam President, I would like We have just debated the government's strategy on health and safety at work in this House. It highlights, among other things, a crime-free and fraudulent labour market as one of the four main areas of the strategy. It is positive that the government is taking this issue very seriously. In addition to this, the committee proposes an announcement that the government should come back with proposals on how to amend the rules on confidentiality in order to counteract the exploitation of labour and improve the possibilities for regulatory co-operation in this area. I look forward to the Parliament returning to these important issues several times during its term of office. It is only by tackling the abuse of the acquis that we can protect what is good about labour immigration. No one should be exploited in the Swedish labour market. However, we will see the value of people wanting to come to Sweden and contribute. It makes Sweden better, it's good for our companies and it's good for our welfare. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-6dac03c742168037-662	Madam President, I would like The social networks are created by people together. They are a natural and crucial part of our lives. These social networks are particularly important when people face difficulties of various kinds. The aim of Christian Democrats' social policy is to support the communities and individual people for their own livelihoods, to provide good care and to enable active participation in society. Social services therefore have a broad and fundamental role to play in the public sector. Social services have the ultimate responsibility for people in the municipalities having a good time, shelter and food on the table. However, the mission is wider than that and is about providing security socially and economically and working for good living conditions and participation in society. Social services thus have a broad area of responsibility to be seen both geographically and in terms of content. This places great demands on a municipality, and it is one of the main tasks of the municipality. Madam President, I would like In recent years, social services have been characterised by an increasing mission when more people need help during part of their lives. At the same time, staff shortages have become acute in several areas, affecting both continuity and quality. The municipalities are responsible for social services. Although general state grants have increased, most municipalities are experiencing increasing pressure due to staff shortages and increased costs that are not met by sufficiently increased state subsidies. But there is also a need for reforms that affect the conditions for the operation and the mission. If social services are allowed to deteriorate due to a shortage of staff and a lack of financial resources as the mission increases, there will be a lack of well-being. People have a good right to expect social services to fulfil their mission as an ultimate safety net and to provide support and assistance to those who fail. Social services and their employees perform a more important and difficult job than they are often recognized for. To further strengthen the position, competence and authority of the profession in this work is therefore an important political task. Support and guidance and opportunities for specialist and further training strengthen the skills of the staff. Good access to handlers with the right skills is important for those who need support and assistance from the social services. In order for the social services to function properly, it is crucial that the staff are continuously provided with skills-enhancing measures. Similarly, it is important that the various work activities of social services are based on methods that are proven and work. Research is needed on already established working methods and the development of new methods. I am pleased that the committee has been able to form a majority for many announcements in the field of social policy. One of them is about strengthening competence in social services. Madam President, I would like Social services are, of course, local. It is in the municipality that social services have to take responsibility for the area and assess efforts based on the conditions. At the same time, in many cases there is a need for knowledge collection and fora for its dissemination. A national competence centre can then be a good support for social services. The Christian Democrats want the government to investigate how a knowledge centre can be set up to support social services throughout the country. Knowledge acquisition and dissemination are important, and a national competence centre can help support good development. Madam President, I would like Several of the declarations proposed by the committee focus on children, both in this report and in others. It's because we're worried about children growing up. Children's rights need to be strengthened and children's rights need to be made visible in all relevant legislation. I am pleased that we Christian Democrats actively contributed to the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming Swedish law. However, the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not enough. We must monitor and report annually on the situation of children before taking new decisions of different kinds, not just in the municipalities or in the regions. Follow-up work is also needed nationally. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 66. Madam President, I would like We have also set out a request from the Liberals, which we believe should have obtained a majority. I regret that we are too few parties to support it. It is about the research connection of social services that needs to be strengthened. Operational research needs to be encouraged and it needs to be possible to combine a doctoral programme with part-time work. This is an issue that we will come back to because it belongs to what needs to be prioritised in social services. All in all, Madam President, the Committee on Social Affairs' motion for a resolution shows a great and broad interest in the work of social services and children's issues. There are many announcements, and on many issues we have a united interest in the committee in achieving something more than today. Social policy needs to be made visible and given a stronger place in the debate and in society. I hope that through the report the committee will contribute to this.
i-6dac03c742168037-678	Madam President, I would like The basis of the Social Services Act is to provide people with economic and social security, equality in living conditions and active participation in society. That's what it says in the portal clause of the Social Services Act. Unfortunately, however, not all children and young people grow up in this security today. The gaps in the economy have made society more unequal. We see that children born in Sweden and living in residential areas have far greater chances of succeeding than children living in an apartment in a million programme area. We also see that more people live in exclusion, where precisely the lack of access to work and language means that they end up side by side. Children in these residential areas rarely meet children from other parts of the city or community. The opportunities to speak Swedish are limited, and often those who live there get to stay within their own society because they lack a car, driver's license and simply economy. Many families who live there long for another life – to be able to get into work and that the children learn good Swedish, clear school and not get into trouble. Madam President, I would like We see this clearly in the field of social services, where the income support group is increasing in times of unemployment. But we also see that more people remain in unemployment and benefit dependency even when the economic cycle rises. That is why supply aid needs to be complemented by various measures that can really provide the conditions for self-sufficiency and a more independent life. Learning Swedish is good, but it should be combined with internships, broad labour market interventions and education at different levels. The government's investment in the spring budget for jobs and education, where vocational training is combined with SFI, is a good example of an important contribution for those who are long-term unemployed to enter the labour market more quickly. We Social Democrats are convinced that no human being wants to live voluntarily on support for livelihoods, because the support they receive means that they live on scarce margins. Families have to fight every day to make ends meet. And it's extra tough for the kids who stay home from activities and have to wait to buy new shoes when the old ones are worn out. It is therefore important that the level of support is appropriate and that it is adapted to the needs of children as well. Children should not be punished for receiving support from the family. Madam President, I would like During the Corona we have seen a 50% increase in complaints to social services in some municipalities. It is especially the school that sees that more children feel bad and get sick. It is from mental pressure to pass school during home studies to the fact that a parent has become unemployed or that there is violence or drinking in the family. Here, society needs to act quickly, because we know that when children get hurt, early intervention is important. The efforts should consist of tried and tested methods that we know produce results, all to give more children and young people a better life so that they can more easily become part of society. The Government has therefore placed great emphasis on quality assurance of support for children and young people in child and youth care and in youth psychiatry. Here are a few examples: The report on the coherence of good and close care for children and young people stresses that youth psychiatry must become more equal across the country and that it will be easier to get help from curators and psychologists in primary care, but also that there will be greater interaction between care, school and social services so that different relief measures can be coordinated in a better and clearer way. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, MFoF, has an important mission to develop an action plan for crime prevention parental support, the purpose of which is precisely to develop effective and sustainable ways of working that can clearly provide good support to parents. Madam President, I would like Preparation is also under way within the Government Office regarding the investigation into the best interests of the child, which was presented in March this year. The investigation made several suggestions to address the security and safety around placements of children and young people. Among other things, children's best interests should be taken into account to a greater extent when reconsidering treatment under LVU. It should also be beyond doubt when treatment according to LVU should cease and a child should move home to their parents. Another proposal that is being worked on is that social services should follow up on a home move from, for example, a family home for up to six months, all to ensure that it works for the family and the child when moving home. Furthermore, we are waiting for the new Social Services Act; the report was presented in autumn 2020 and is now being prepared within the government. Here, the investigator places great emphasis on the need for social services to be more equal and for the efforts to be proven and deliver results. Madam President, I would like Social services today need a high level of expertise and experience. Unfortunately, the tendency to pass through the profession has led to many difficult cases in social services being handled by inexperienced staff. An investigation of a family can lead to a placement that affects the whole life of the child and the family. Therefore, knowledgeable and experienced investigators are needed. Here there is responsibility both in parliament and municipalities to do what one can to increase the status of the socionomie profession. It is not enough simply to establish the profession, but better training and career paths are needed to make the profession attractive. During the period 2017–2020, the Government has invested SEK 360 million annually in increased staffing and competence enhancement in social services. The support will be evaluated now in 2021, but the government was already clear in the spring budget that more needs to be done in this area. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight the debate on violence in close relations, which took place this week. Parliament has taken steps forward in this important work. We also know that the government is working on further legislative proposals to reduce men's violence against women. What I would like to further highlight is how we strengthen the children's perspective for children living in sheltered housing. This is where society needs to improve. Children who accompany their mother to sheltered housing must be offered treatment for their traumatic experiences, be able to go to school and be like other children. Here society still has a lot to learn. Therefore, I look forward to more efforts being introduced from the investigation A window of opportunities that came in 2017. The government is currently preparing several proposals from the investigation. They concern, among other things, measures to make the child more visible and involved in issues relating to the child while in sheltered housing, but also how the children's right to schooling, health care, dental care, support and treatment are ensured when staying in sheltered housing. Madam President, I would like I agree with all of our reservations, but I only support reservation number 7.
i-6dac03c742168037-698	Madam President, I would like I noted that the honourable Member mentioned the forthcoming Social Services Act. It has been investigated by Margareta Winberg. It has also received quite a lot of criticism in the referrals. At the same time, the government – quite wisely, I think – has asked for an elderly care inquiry, which means that you should have your own elderly care law. Is it the honourable Member's assessment that we will proceed with the Social Services Act as planned? Is it not a good time to take a look and listen to both the criticism and the referral and perhaps think again from the point of view that we break out the care of the elderly?
i-6dac03c742168037-700	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for the question. After the Social Services Act was presented, it has become a discussion about an older care law, which we from the government stand to investigate. I don't have the latest from the department, but I can state that there is a social services team that is being prepared and that you look at what it should look like. The result of the preparation is not yet ready, but we will have to come back to that. But it's clear you're gonna have to take a case after this whole old-age care thing came up.
i-6dac03c742168037-701	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Wiking for his reply. I think we need to take action, both on the basis of the new conditions and on the basis of the criticisms or referrals – it is natural that comments should be made in a referral. But even what has happened with regard to children's rights and the work that has been done, not least by this committee, means that we should now probably see this in a new light. We are some who have proposed it, but there is not a majority for it, and the honourable Member does not share that view. It is still good to hear that it is not locked, because this is an issue that we need to keep open and look and think about in the future.
i-6dac03c742168037-702	Madam President, I would like I feel that these questions are so important that we cannot just go on. We need to find broad compromises, as we did when discussing the Sis issue, for example. Just going on wouldn't benefit the children and families who get hurt. On these issues, we need to find good ways that are sustainable over several terms of office.
i-6dac03c742168037-703	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservation 17. There are so many important issues that need to be worked on, but few things that feel so incredibly important as improving opportunities and conditions for our children. I come from a party that is working very clearly to ensure that it does not matter where you come from; it is where you are going that should mean something. So much in Sweden is amazing, and the opportunities are so many – but not for everyone. For children who grow up in different kinds of dysfunctional families and are placed when the home doesn't work and for children who grow up in places with institutional character, things don't always go as well. We know, for example, that children placed on a horrendously small scale pass their education. We also know that the absolute best vaccination against future exclusion is a completed and completed schooling and education. For these children, we have a responsibility. We have a duty to ensure that society is strong when it needs to do so. Madam President, I would like A little over a year ago, an intense journey began for the Social Affairs Committee. For us, it has not only been about covid-19 but also about what started with the well-known case. We Moderates proposed a committee initiative with three sharp legislative proposals from an investigation that came in 2015 and that the Red-Green Government has chosen to put in the drawer. Only when we in Parliament began to prepare these legislative proposals did the government get a fire in the butt. Six of the eight parties in the Riksdag, all except the two government parties Social Democrats and the Environmental Party, supported the moderate proposal. Without us working so tight and so constructively together, and without the commitment of the members of the Committee on Social Affairs, we would not have been able to do what we are doing now. This is really teamwork. In his speech, Mr Mats Wiking, the Socialist Member, has just highlighted the work on the lex Lilla heart and the investigation we had at the beginning of March. I know I'm not just talking to myself and my party when I say that we were quite a few who were surprised. Even more, we were disappointed. The government knew that there was no support for the proposal it was making. What the investigation said, we had been saying for a long time. In the group in which Mr Wiking is sitting, it was very clear that six parties wanted to see the best interests of the child as their own props in the legislation. My friends and Madam President! It was truly disappointing — and surprising — to take part in this. I do not really know how the Social Democrats and the Green Party believe that this proposal will go through the Riksdag. In addition to the work on the legislation on issues related to the Little Heart, two of the laws entered into force on 1 March, we have handled announcements after announcement to the government. The report that we are debating today tends to be one of these, but this report has grown and developed through the tireless drive of the Committee on Social Affairs towards an uninterested and weak government. In February, it was a broken-out report on children. On Monday, we will be debating another suspended report, which deals with a broad review of Swedish compulsory care and which all parties except the two government parties support. A little while ago, Madam President, the committee called on the government to come back to the committee by August at the latest to explain what concrete steps it intends to take to address all the problems in Sis, that is, the activities of the State Department Board. Despite the fact that we are many parties that have been repeatedly known for several years as both the minister responsible and the authority and its directors-general – it has been plural over the years – there has been no radical change. Although I have put a number of questions to the Socialist representative of the government here today on several occasions in previous debates, I have not received an answer. Today, I hope that we will be prepared to have a debate on why we reserve ourselves against the other six parties and why it has not happened more for seven years when we have also had so many important investigations to collect important proposals from and have a government office with large muscles to collect proposals from. As you know, Covid-19 appeared at the beginning of 2020, but I do not believe that all government officials are working on this particular issue at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I hope – the hope is the last thing that leaves the human being – that in today's debate the S-representative is present not only to read a written speech but also to debate why nothing happened until we Moderates presented a committee initiative to the Social Committee on 12 March 2020. Madam President, I would like Today, I am proud that the report contains 13 announcements. I am sometimes told that it does not matter how much we tighten up legislation if we do not at the same time provide social services with the right education, skills and conditions. I couldn't agree more. We have, among other things, far too much turnover for social security officers in our operations. It does not guarantee security for the families and children in greatest need of security. The children that are being enforced, and not least the children that are on Sis, should not have to have as many different social secretaries as in the horror stories that many of us have heard. Not infrequently, Madam President, it is the graduates who have to deal with the most complex and heavy family investigations – far too often without adequate supervision, mentoring and experience. This does not guarantee qualitative investigations or a good working environment that makes you want to stay. This is likely to play a major role in the large turnover of staff. We need to evaluate this important work. We do this by providing the right resources for the work, including by ensuring methodical mentor support and structured introduction training, having higher competence requirements for social services staff and ensuring further training and the possibility of research at work. The research link of the social services must be strengthened. I share the disappointment of my colleague, Mr Ankarberg, that only Liberals, Christian Democrats and Moderates support the important demands of the Liberals. It should be self-evident that all parties agree on this too. It needs to be ensured that evidence-based methods are used in Swedish social services. Greater national responsibility is needed through more systematic work on national guidelines, follow-up and feedback. Only then do we see that we are working steadily in the right direction. Madam President, I would like Otherwise, the need to support relatives is very great. Today we are proposing a focus on family support and that this be reviewed. We need, among other things, to get a picture of how family support and family support in the municipalities work today and how this can be strengthened and developed in the future. We also highlight a collaborative model that has been successfully implemented in the Västra Götaland region and which has taken inspiration from the so-called Iceland project. This is about cooperation in the event of violence in families with children. Finally, Madam President, it is my hope that there will be parties in this House who will come to their senses when we vote on this issue next week and ensure that the announcement of a new social services law becomes a reality and not just a so-called false announcement. We are patching and legislating existing legislation as best we can and with the conditions we have. But basically we have a social services law that was created in another time and that does not start from the children in the way that is important, correct and reasonable. Madam President, I would like My final words will be that I am pleased that we have another report in which we can strengthen the child perspective. I am convinced that this will continue to be our overall focus in the Committee on Social Affairs. It is our duty to ensure that the children most in need of support also receive this.
i-6dac03c742168037-726	Madam President, I would like It is nice to be up here talking to Member Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. I feel a great deal of commitment from the honourable Member on these issues. We have had these discussions before; last time, however, we did not have a change of line. Many of these questions and announcements are important. I think that all parties have great credit for taking these issues seriously. My view and that of the government is that many of these issues are being prepared in the Government Office. Then I can agree that sometimes things go too slowly and questions are sometimes put aside. We know that we are not going to get a majority for this investigation of little hearts and so on. We can count too, so we understand that. But the investigation is out for a referral, so we'll hear what the referee says when they get in. As I said to Mr Ankarberg, we obviously want to get legislative proposals that are sustainable over time, and it is clear that then we need a broad majority for the proposals – absolutely. It's really important. Member Waltersson Grönvall knows that I have a past in social services and have worked on these issues for a very long time. There are no simple solutions, but it is complicated. The target group is very broad, so a lot of different efforts are needed to solve the problems. We are, of course, prepared to discuss good solutions, but it is not self-evident that all announcements go through. Perhaps we have a different view. We are also dealing with certain things that will, of course, be completed.
i-6dac03c742168037-732	Madam President, I would like The very thing that Mr Wiking concludes with is something that we in the Committee on Social Affairs have devoted ourselves to very much: we have been waiting. We have waited and waited, and I note that it was only after a committee initiative was laid in March last year that things actually started to happen. And I am pleased about that, because I am also among those who believe that we need to find long-term, cross-block solutions on such important issues. Maybe that's why my disappointment was so great. I had hoped that an investigator of the Social Democratic Government would come back with something that we could find broad support for throughout the Riksdag. My aim in working on these issues is for all parties in this House to be able to support it. Only then do I think that children and families who need the support of society can feel really safe in knowing that security is not torn up at the next elections but should remain and develop. It is also important for all the people who work with this. I've been out for the past year, what I've been able to do, making study visits to our social services. I am met by the same picture there: You want other tools. There are many things that do not work, and one is concerned about the high turnover of staff. That is why I am very pleased that today we have a number of important announcements. The questions are those that I keep coming back to: why did nothing happen before March 2020? What did the government do? What were you waiting for? After all, there were so many studies with ready-made legislative proposals to be based on.
i-6dac03c742168037-736	Madam President, I would like Why didn't something happen? We have had that debate before. I am thinking of looking ahead to what we can achieve with the investigations that are now in place, and I will press for them to be completed in the near future. When it comes to a small heart, we know a little bit what the opposition thinks, and it is clear that then we must find other solutions. Let's see what the referee says. The trial, which is basically about a little heart, and your committee initiative in March 2020 are absolutely important issues. And it's important to find the right one in these matters so that it becomes a good social services team forward, over time. We also know that Norrköping municipality, which had this case, did not comply with the regulations 100%. The existing Social Services Act could therefore have worked if it had been properly followed. We need to find solutions that allow social services in all municipalities to comply with the regulations and can easily do so. Madam President, I would like I can only say that we agree on a great deal. We have seen the shortcomings concerning Sis, and it is very important that we have a broad majority on this. We talk a lot about both competence and evidence, something that the honourable Member is also talking about. Nevertheless, I hope that Mr Grönvall will see the 360 million investment made by the government. It could of course have been more during these years, what we invested in increased competence and staffing in social services. Probably the honourable Member will say that it is too little, but it is still an effort that we have made and that we will evaluate in 2021. We also say in our proposal that we are prepared to do more in this area. It may not be enough from the honourable Member's point of view, but we are absolutely prepared to do more.
i-6dac03c742168037-742	Madam President, I would like It is commendable that Mr Wiking admits that there is probably a great deal more that the government can and should do. I am a member of the Sis Transparency Council, and I note that the management is drawing and stretching the resources available to rebuild these sites according to 2021 and not after the time when they were built up, often in the 1950s. We who have been out on a lot of study visits at Sis-sites note that one is almost shocked by the conditions under which the business lives. There have also been a lot of concerns around the escapes and other things, which means that you need to safety-grade these facilities in a completely different way. I note that the resources allocated are not sufficient for all these endeavours. More needs to be done, just as the honourable Member suspected I would say. These are extremely important issues. Madam President, I would like I would also like to point out that when it comes to the pursuit of legislation that shifts the focus from biological parents' rights to their children to the best interests of the child, we have no other intention than that it should be a law of legal certainty. That is why we are also setting up a qualified investigator to deal with this so that we can have a proposal on the table, something that the government has not succeeded in doing. I can only hope that on the day the motion is on Parliament's table, there will be no prestige that will prevent us from getting along without finding a consensus that will make these children feel safe for a long time. Above all, we shall get to this important shift of perspective that the government's investigation unfortunately does not provide.
i-6dac03c742168037-747	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the previous speaker for a good introduction and clarification of what the committee has been doing recently. It was a good thing it came out. I would say that social services actually have the most complex and most important task in the municipality, Madam President. Few missions have as great an impact on the individual as those of the country's municipal social welfare boards. They have the mandate to take children away from their families when there are grounds for such decisions. Of course, this is based on a solid basis from the Social Secretary, and that these are of the best quality are fundamental to correct decisions. It is therefore extremely important to me that we ensure that staff are given the space and the conditions to strike a good balance. In today's debate on social services and children's issues, the committee agrees to send 13 announcements to the government. We have dealt with around 460 motion requests, and there is a great deal of commitment in the committee. We therefore agree that a great deal needs to be done in this area and that the government is simply slow on many important issues relating in particular to children. I cannot touch on everything I would like to mention here but choose to stay in a few areas that I think are important in the broad context. I'm going to dwell first on our social services staff. The role of the social security secretary is extremely important. We usually put it briefly as a key social secretary. It is a great responsibility that rests on the shoulders of social secretaries, and it is therefore important that they have sufficient support and competence, but also the right tools and conditions to be able to do their work in the best possible way, not least in a healthy working environment. It can have enormous consequences for the individual if decisions do not land right. Incorrect care or no care at all affects children and families. We are talking about people who make decisions that affect many people, and it is our duty in this House to ensure that they are given the right conditions to do the work that we impose on them by law. Today, unfortunately, staff turnover is still high, and according to recent statistics, the proportion of socionomie education officers with at least five years' experience of child investigations in the country's administrations lands at about 38 percent across the country. These are worrying statistics, Madam President. To be added, statistics may be slightly better if you look at the proportion of children's inquiries with three years' experience. Then we'll land at 64%. It's a little more than half – a little better. The task of the administrators includes making difficult decisions that can determine the life of the child. Experience, continuity and trust are therefore important prerequisites for their work and also for the children placed. It is therefore important that social secretaries' opportunities for education, skills development and the conditions for development be reviewed. As we assign more assignments to social services, it is also particularly important that they receive both skills and resources in order to be able to shoulder that work. That child investigations are correct and that good placements are made is A and O for the individual – and also for me. One of the announcements we are about to make to the government is about our requirement for competence for social services staff. I am, of course, pleased that this is being presented to the government. Furthermore, we believe that licence requirements and specialist training for public authority employees in social work should be investigated. In 2009, the Child Welfare Investigation Office proposed an advanced-level specialist education for social welfare secretaries in social care for children and young people. Most consultation bodies welcomed the proposal, but it never materialised. The introduction of specialist socionomies with children and young people as a focus would increase the competence of social secretaries and would give already experienced social secretaries a career path. We therefore believe that there should be a national specialist training at advanced level for social secretaries in social care for children and young people. A licence requirement for social security secretaries would increase the status and competence requirements as well as provide an aptitude review. With this, I would like to support reservation 9 in paragraph 7 on specialist training. Another proposal that we highlight, and which is also important to mention, is how placed children are, especially after completion of the placement when the operation is completed. According to SBU's 2018 survey, fewer than half of the municipalities surveyed reported that they had procedures for monitoring the health and dental health of the children placed. A number of studies have shown that children placed in comparison with their peers have a higher risk of having serious problems in adulthood. Many times they have a school course lined with gaps and twitchiness, and mental illness is much greater for that group. The most recent open comparisons show that 39 per cent of women and 32 per cent of men placed in grade 9 have completed three-year high school at the age of 20. This compares with peers who have not been placed, where the proportion is 81 and 70 respectively. When it comes to the use of psychopharmaceuticals, it is noted that 11 percent of girls and 6 percent of boys aged 15 to 16 who were placed in grade 9 received a long-term medicinal product from two or more different psychopharmaceuticals in 2019. This compares with peers who were not placed, where the proportion was 2 and 1 per cent respectively. It simply requires targeted efforts to meet the ill health of many of the children and young people who are, and also those who have been, placed in the care of the municipality and the state. Follow-up, support and assistance must be provided for those who have been placed. The need for aftercare is high and should be offered to a much greater extent than at present. This is regulated by the Social Services Act, which says that the Social Welfare Board should work to ensure that the children placed receive the health care they need, but we believe that this issue needs to be reviewed and clarified.
i-6dac03c742168037-761	Madam President, I would like Social services and children's issues are on the agenda for today's debate. The issues raise enormous commitment, and we are pleased to see that there is a great deal of consensus on many of the issues. What is important for the whole is the issues that cover such a huge area, from aid assessment to children's rights issues. In other committees, parallel processes are underway, including in the Civil Committee. Many parts of the issue are underway. It is therefore important to have a holistic approach to laying the foundations for a coherent social service. Not least, there is a great deal of commitment to the number of announcements in the report. Social services are really one of the cornerstones of the activities in our municipalities. Social services should be the fine mesh network that should be close and accessible and capture you when you need them most. It is the task and responsibility of politics to lay the foundations for a well-functioning social service. Any report of misdemeanors or of children and the elderly who are in trouble is a case too much. Madam President, I would like When we visit our municipalities, we often encounter a disturbing picture of social services. Lack of skills, too little staff, too little resources and too little time. This often leads to the removal of important elements, such as preventive and preventive measures or family support. Field assistants and parts of social services that are not statutory may simply iron their foot. But I believe, Madam President, that we will bite ourselves in the tail if we continue not to give more priority to the activities of social services. I particularly remember a presentation during my time as a councillor about how much it actually costs if we let a child slip behind, slip away, not pass school, not move on to work, end up in alienation, crime or addiction. That's a huge amount of money. If we put that sum in relation to how much a preventive effort actually costs, the equation is clear, and the choice of what you bet on should be simple. Why isn't more done? Why do we not ensure that preventive and preventive work is strengthened? If we succeed in our preventive, preventive, supportive and sometimes caring work, we have great benefits to make for both the individual and society at large. A key to our success in social services, whether it is for adults, the elderly or children, is that we politicians create the conditions for cooperation and collaboration between different businesses and authorities. Fortunately, one of the announcements today is about strengthening cooperation between pupil health, health care and social services. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party has put forward a number of proposals, and I note that many of them have been fully or partially endorsed by the committee. The first announcement that I would like to highlight is that the government is to set up an investigation to review the issue of evidence-based methods for social services child investigations. As I said, social services handle a number of important investigations, which often have a decisive impact on children's lives. It can be anything from custody to custody. The fact that the investigation is factual and well-done is therefore of the utmost importance, and for the investigation to be objective, legally certain and well-done, the investigator must have the necessary expertise to be able to make a fair assessment based on the child's situation. An investigator who conducts a child telephone call in a criminal case usually has specific competence for this. A similar requirement for specific competence should also apply to those who investigate and conduct child-care talks, for example, in a custody case or in a case under the Social Services Act. These are issues that we in the Center Party have been highlighting and pushing for a long time. I am pleased to note that they have been approved today. Another important issue on which we also have an announcement is that we want complaints to be searchable. Perhaps you can reflect on why it would be so important. It is about that if a complaint is made but not investigated, it is also not searchable after a while. We want an alarm report, whether it leads to an investigation or not, to be searchable in the future in order to get an overall picture of what the child has actually experienced. That's why that part is very important. A third announcement that I would like to highlight concerns the cooperation between health care, pupil health and social services. As I began by saying, this cooperation is very important for us to have a coherent chain for children in particular. It can't be stressed enough. Obstacles that currently hamper such cooperation and exchange of information need to be reviewed in favour of legislation and guidelines that promote interaction for the best interests of the child. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to highlight a fourth announcement on the review of family support. We have many family supporters in Sweden who draw a huge load by caring for and supporting their relatives every day. We note that there is an announcement in this area, which is to be welcomed. But we in the Center Party would like to take another step and give our social services and authorities, including the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, more tools to ensure equal family support throughout the country. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 22.
i-6dac03c742168037-777	Madam President, I would like Member Sofia Nilsson gave an exciting speech. I would just like to make one point about the searchable complaints. I hope that Mr Nilsson will be aware that there is an investigation going on about what is about to be completed, to be consulted and will be presented in the near future. That is an example. I am also thinking of the announcement of evidence-based methods. That's exactly what the government has set aside funds for over three four years – evidence-based treatment methods and evidence-based investigation methods. It is therefore something that we are already working on and working on quite hard, plus that we present the investigation about concerns in the near future. I hope Mr Nilsson knows about this.
i-6dac03c742168037-781	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wiking for informing me about this, but that is absolutely something that I am very familiar with. The reason we are presenting this now is that we are receiving signals from our social services that what we have done so far has not been enough. Now we want to point out that these are so important issues that we want to push on a little more. Making complaints that have not been investigated searchable can actually reinforce the image once a child is investigated, for example in a criminal case. Then you need to be able to strengthen the image that this is something that has been going on for a long time so that we stand on the child's side and ensure that it is the child's right that is in focus and that the child can get the redress that is so much needed. In this particular part, this is an extra push in the right direction to further strengthen the children's perspective in social services.
i-6dac03c742168037-785	Madam President, I would like I also raise the issue to point out to those who may be looking at the debate that things are actually being done by the government. We run on the same ball quite often. But it is of course interesting to have an announcement, and it is an interesting question how we should deal with it based on the fact that in the near future there will be a proposal for searchable complaints of concern. I agree with the honourable Member that this is extremely important. If social services receive three four complaints about a child or a family, it is very important that you do not just look at the latest report, as you have done before. It has been put in the slush cover, as they say in social services. This is a very important question that Mr Nilsson highlights. But can Mr Nilsson also see that it has actually been working on this issue for quite some time in the government?
i-6dac03c742168037-788	Madam President, I would like If the government has been working on this for a very long time, we will again come to the question put by Mr Grönvall: why has it not been taken up and introduced now? This is the signal we want to send, because it is precisely the signal that we in turn receive from the social services – that this needs to be done as soon as possible. Sitting and investigating and waiting for things is not good enough, but now we need to get action in this. It is the same with regard to methodological support. There is far too much out there in social services today. A methodological support is longed for. This is what enables us to both increase the attractiveness of the profession and strengthen the rule of law – and, once again, stand on the child's side and ensure that the child's best interests come into focus. This is about investigations that are often life-changing. That is why it is so extremely important that we actually have developed methodological support that is equivalent across the country and that investigators can feel confident in using so that there is clarity in the future measures to be taken. So these are questions that are incredibly important. We really want to emphasise that we need to get these parts in place along with a number of other elements, such as the best interests of the child as his own props.
i-6dac03c742168037-793	Madam President, I would like Living in financial vulnerability is living under constant stress. Everything in life is about dealing with the lack of sufficient resources, always managing that the money is not enough. Those who have seen this at close range know that it is an unprecedented struggle and that those who are forced to live under these conditions are truly warriors. Every day starts and ends by finding ways to make life go together. It's not the famous life puzzle of picking up and leaving and how cleaning should be done between work and leisure time. No, this is about getting food on the table, which bill might possibly be possible to opt out and which debt collection company it is easiest to appeal to. This is about the struggle with children because they do not stop growing and the seasons change are always in need of new clothes. Often the warrior is a lonely mother. Often the mouths are to feed more than one. For a child, poverty is about dealing with the one you love most, your parent, having to fight to give you what you need. Children see everything. They see the parent struggling to raise money for the rent. They see the parent's never-ending imagination to make the simple dinner so much more fun than it really is. Children who live in financial vulnerability learn to handle the fact that there is not always food, that they cannot go to the movies with friends, that an invitation to a friend's party is accompanied by guilt because they know what it means for the parent. Living in financial vulnerability means that as a child you will find strategies to address the school staff's questioning that you have the wrong clothes for the given occasion. You just don't like wearing rubber boots. You get so warm so easily that it suits you better with autumn jacket in winter. You left your lunch at home, and now you don't have a key to come in and get it. As a child, you will learn to paint a fantastic story about the excursion to the lake when the others tell you about the trip to Spain after the summer vacation. Or you just don't say anything at all. Because as a child in a financially vulnerable family, you are doing everything you can not to show your own needs. You do everything in your power to give your family the love and loyalty you know they deserve. Poverty or financial vulnerability is not a choice. It is an exclusion from the majority society. It is a political position that some people should enjoy the resources of society while others should not. It is exclusion from education, from the labour market, from our social safety nets. It is a withdrawal of the right to be ill or to be in a life crisis. It's not a choice. It is a truly unfair distribution – an injustice that strikes extremely hard against over 186 000 children in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I have to say that we in the Committee on Social Affairs are quite good at cooperating. We have made great progress together during this parliamentary term. We've got some government assistance through. We are working for LVU to become a law on rights, and a fully united committee has decided that the National Board of Institutional Affairs will provide the right help. And we are working seriously on the issue of men's violence against women. I think this is fantastic. But there is one area where we are seriously lagging behind, and it is children who live in poverty. Probably, Mr President, it is because it is about class. The financial vulnerability of children is due to the fact that their parents are. That is why we need a policy that settles the inequalities in society and creates an economy that works for everyone, not just for the richest. There is a need to invest in, among other things, more jobs, the right to a full-time job and a functioning health insurance system and better unemployment insurance. However, targeted political efforts are also needed to put the best interests of the child at the centre. We in the Left Party believe that the work against children's financial vulnerability must get off the ground, and that is why we want the government to set up a national action plan to combat children's financial vulnerability. Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks, men's violence against women and violence in close relationships has been a very hot issue. Although we know that men's violence against women occurs in all social classes, it affects differently depending on our economic or social situation. Those who are financially vulnerable are more severely affected by the whims of life than those who are economically dense. I have pointed out on a previous occasion that children living in a family with financial assistance do not have an independent right of subsistence. There is no guarantee that the child will receive money for food or shelter. If, for some reason, the child's parent loses support, there is a great risk that the child will also be empty-handed. The same applies if you are a violent woman. The obligation of supply means that if a person is married or cohabiting with someone who has an income, it is considered that the person can have his or her needs satisfied by it. This can lead to the economically vulnerable being placed in a position of dependence that prevents the possibility of an independent life. For example, a woman who is fleeing a violent relationship is unable to receive financial assistance as long as she is still married or is considered to be living together with the man who has subjected her to violence. The consequences of this are very easy to figure out. This is an excellent opportunity for the man to exercise economic violence, and it is our laws that pose that risk. However, there is an opportunity to get the right to financial assistance if the victim tells us that it is the victim of violence. But we all know that this is not a small requirement. This is, in fact, unreasonable. The assessment of financial assistance must be based on each individual's own needs and individual needs. That is why we in the Left Party want the guidelines for financial assistance, including the obligation to provide support, to be reviewed in order to ensure that individual assessments are always made. Now that, for once, we have put the issue of men's violence against women on the political agenda, we must ensure that we do not allow any group to become invisible. We must ensure that the legislation we have does not reinforce the risk of violence. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but today we are opting for the approval of reservation 35.
i-6dac03c742168037-812	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be the country of opportunity for all, not just for all children who are already growing up under good conditions. Very many of the most fragile and vulnerable children suffer extremely badly, even though these are the children the state must protect. Alarm report after alarm report arrives. It really pisses me off and increases my momentum. Why do all these alarm reports come from the media and not from the authorities responsible? I appreciate the fact that our free media are doing this important monitoring, but I would appreciate it if the state were equally proactive in detecting abuses and if the government took this much more seriously. Last autumn SVT reported on how it looked for many vulnerable children placed under LVU in different homes for care and housing around the country. SVT's reports showed that children as social services suffered terribly and were seriously ill for various reasons. These were children who were placed because they had been exposed to guardians at home or who were suffering from mental illness, but they also involved children who had fallen into abuse or incipient crime. It was children who were in great need of coming to a place where they could get protection, support, care and opportunities for new life chances but who were instead subjected to terrible abuse. Mr President, I would like to This week, SVT reported once again that vulnerable children and young people were met by HVB staff who were, for example, drug-affected or rough-handed or who sexually harassed children or used unlawful coercive measures. These were 50 HVB homes with documented maladministration, which have been maintained by municipalities in the country as a result of trust and responsibility for vulnerable children and young people and where 200 million of taxpayers' money was paid out during the year. In the report we can hear about children who tell how they came from there broken more than when they got there. They talk about how staff force boys to put on equipment and fight, how they are stopped from going to school as punishment, and how they are yelled out for telling about abuses. Young children from eight to twelve years of age are forced down on the ground and are held with a knee in their backs. Behind this reporting are so many vulnerable and betrayed children. Mr President, I would like to SVT reported during the spring even about conditions in the state's locked institutional housing. Here, too, we were able to note that when the Swedish State takes over responsibility for already vulnerable girls, in many cases the youngest with an autism spectrum condition, they are affected by threats, assaults and sexual abuse. This is a complete failure and totally unworthy of Sweden. The fact that the municipalities, SKR and the Inspection for Health Care refer to each other and that you want to give the residents new chances is not good enough. The issue of liability needs to be clarified. Disadvantages must be addressed immediately. Otherwise, there must be clear consequences. I will not give up until children living in this vulnerability receive the support to which they are entitled. Mr President, I would like to That is why the Liberals are calling for a complete pool of forces. We have ensured that the government is now developing a strategy to combat violence against children. That's a good start. However, I would like to highlight three reforms that must begin to be implemented here and now. First of all, set up an accident commission for children taken care of! In the past, the Liberals have called for the immediate appointment of a Commission of Accidents. We have not received support for this – yet. However, together in committee we have called for the government to come back with a plan for dealing with these abuses. I very much appreciate our joint work in committee, which is constructive on so many points. But I and the Liberals stand by our demand. More decisive action is needed. We've got to get another Commission of Accidents. We want to know. Every stone will be turned around. Every exposed child should know that they have our full support. It is only when we put all the cards on the table that the picture will emerge of how serious the situation is. It takes a willingness to face the truth in order to take the necessary steps. I want all children and young people to know that Sweden's elected parliament is on your side and that an accident commission on the situation at Sis and HVB homes will be appointed. Secondly, HVB homes with serious maladministration are to be closed. Liberals want to see clearer requirements for targets and follow-up as to which care should be provided to forced children and that the misconditions in housing should lead to sharper consequences. In parallel with the fact that we are calling for state funding for forced removals, the requirements for HVB housing should also be increased. Housing with severe maladministration should be permanently closed down, and housing that shows maladministration should lose its condition. All types of accommodation must be of high quality. The follow-up of investments must be improved. No child should be exposed to the care of the municipality or the state. Follow-up of community care should be continuous, and collaboration with health care should be strengthened. Thirdly, the shortcomings of the proposed new Social Services Act need to be addressed. The new Social Services Act must be much better and really start from what is best for the child. The LVU must be reformed and have clear objectives and guidelines. The social services must be given the possibility of longer follow-up in children's matters after completion of the placement, and the important work of the social security secretary must be given considerably better conditions. The law must include a clear expectation that social services will support children's schooling. Placed children will succeed in school. It'll really give life chances. Children in need of LSS should have access to vital rights legislation and not, as is currently the case, be locked up in institutions, as is the case in far too many cases. Mr President, I would like to Children are nobody's property, but they are everyone's responsibility, not least our responsibility in this House. I will never give up until Sweden becomes the land of opportunity for all children. Mr Wiking said earlier in a change of line with Mrs Grönvall that it is complex to investigate these cases. And it is complex to investigate these cases, but the most complex thing is for children to grow up in environments where there is a fear from responsible politicians to fully stand on their children's side. The proposals that now come from the government's investigation into strengthening the perspective of children's rights have not dared to make these positions. As regards the termination of compulsory care, it is stated that it would be legally insecure from the point of view of the guardians. However, the legislation currently in place is totally legally insecure from the point of view of vulnerable children. Using a removal ban as a measure is a short-term and anything but a stable solution on our part. As long as we feel and feel that it is more complex for us who stand here or for those who work with these questions than it is for all the children I have met who suffer so terribly, then it will not be better than this. The most important thing is that we have the courage to question parental rights and stand on the side of children.
i-6dac03c742168037-833	Mr President, I would like to If children could choose their parents, they might not choose parents with addiction and addiction problems or a father who beats. Why choose a single mother who is never home because she has two jobs that together still do not cover expenses? If we think about it, we have built a society that increasingly assumes that children should actually be allowed to choose their parents. A new study from the Gothenburg School of Economics shows that inequality is passed on between generations to a greater extent than previously thought. One of the conclusions is that inequality and a little simplistic life chances are too much determined by which family you are born into instead of the individual's own efforts. Mr President, I would like to We can take the cardinal error that many children do in this city, Stockholm, not to choose parents who put them in line for the right free school already at birth – just one such thing. The Social Services Act is intended to provide people with economic and social security, equal living conditions and active participation in society. It is clear that the Social Services Act alone cannot compensate for a society that creates increased gaps or inequality, or for that matter for a society where children cannot choose their parents. But it would be desirable for the Social Services Act, or rather its application, to contribute more clearly to the non-inheritance of poverty and dependency. The wide-ranging systems of sickness and unemployment must include more so that fewer are excluded and ultimately forced to become dependent on supply support. This and a school that completes its compensatory mission are needed to reverse this trend. But once social services come in, they must do everything to strengthen children's chances of becoming self-sufficient, becoming independent, and freely choosing the future that they want. It is not a natural law that inequality should be inherited. Children should not be punished for not being able to choose their parents. Mr President, I would like to A little more than a year and a half ago, Esmeralda, also known as the Little Heart, was found distasteful to death by his parents. It was an incredibly tragic case that led me and many with me to ask us questions about children's rights in Sweden, not least how what happened could happen even though we in Sweden value children's rights so highly. The government acted and appointed an investigator who has already presented an investigation here today under debate. The investigation is currently in the process of being consulted and presents a series of proposals to strengthen the principle of the best interests of the child. Amongst the proposals are that the best interests of the child should be taken into account in a review of the LVU and that the social welfare boards will be obliged to monitor the situation of children after the end of compulsory care – important proposals. However, the investigator does not propose that the child's best interests be incorporated as their own constituent elements in the legislation. This is something that many children's rights organisations have proposed, and it is also something that we in the Green Party are open to, not least because Sweden has ratified and made the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. That is why, Mr President, I will have a great deal of interest in the referrals that will be received by 11 June, that is to say tomorrow. When I have had the opportunity to take note of these answers, at least I am open to assessing the question of how we should act forward. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to take this opportunity to mention a few other things. The Coronapendem has in a way made us all in this country, in Europe and around the world feel what it is like when our human rights and freedoms are limited. Now Sweden may not have introduced the most draconian restrictions linked to Corona, but around Europe people have been more or less under house arrest. When the state assumes a responsibility to limit and, in some cases, restrict our human rights, it assumes a great responsibility. Many of the issues that are being debated today are, of course, about when we as legislators restrict not least children's rights, such as their freedom of movement. Therefore, there is a great responsibility upon us, when we deprive children of the right to move freely, to ensure that it is done with the utmost care so that we never violate children's rights when they are under our protection. I am very proud that there is agreement on this in committee and that we have been able to agree to develop and improve these elements. I support our reservations, but I call for the gain of time to be granted only to reservation 7.
i-6dac03c742168037-846	Mr President, I would like to It has been a long time since I was as happy as when I now hear that there is an opening in one of the two government parties to really begin to approach the child's best as its own props. I felt that there was an opening in the discussions in the so-called Little Heart Group too, and therefore I was a little disappointed once we ended up in committee and I noted that the Green Party reserved itself against moving forward with a qualified investigator in order for us to produce a bill of the best interests of the child as its own props. Mr President, I would like to I must ask Mr Attefjord to develop. Do we actually see a turn here? If we receive a proposal under the auspices of the Social Committee and if the children's rights organisations believe that the government's proposal is not enough, will the Green Party support the other six parties? If so, it would be a very welcome turn.
i-6dac03c742168037-848	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Grönvall for the question. The way the Green Party stands on this issue has long been clear. In politics we usually say that one should distinguish between the thing and the person. As far as the reservations in committee are concerned, the question of the right of the child as his own property is one thing. Another is how the majority in committee has chosen to take the matter forward. As far as I know, the Riksdag has never before investigated laws, but the investigation power is in accordance with the Constitution with the Government. That is why I acted as I did in committee. It is not the substance of the matter, but the question of the process that raises questions. The Parliament will instruct the government to appoint investigators, and it will be resourced in an adequate way.
i-6dac03c742168037-851	Mr President, I would like to Now it became even more interesting. Member Attefjord is surely well aware that we in the Social Affairs Committee waited for the government's investigation before moving forward with our own investigator because we felt obliged to do so. It gets a little confusing if you as a party think it is reasonable to investigate the child's best interests as your own props but sit in a government that does not do so even though the same government knows that sex, and now maybe seven, parties are behind this. Can Mr Attefjord describe how it would have been reasonable for a majority of at least six parties in the Swedish Parliament to act when we have a government that does not listen and that for six years has not thought the issue to be important? I believe that we have six lost years for vulnerable children because of the ministers responsible for the issue. Now we have a strong majority in the committee – which has nevertheless found it unreasonable to start investigating before we know what the government's investigators are saying. But once the proposal came and the child's best interests as his own props were missing, the honourable Member Attefjord must also have been surprised and disappointed. What are we gonna do? Should we wait another three or six years? What does Mr Attefjord think it is reasonable to do? Should children be kept waiting for a further number of years?
i-6dac03c742168037-855	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear. We have always said that we want to wait for the referral. If they say that the government should bring forward legislation with the best interests of the child as its own props, the government should do so. What has been done before I'm probably not the right person to answer because I'm quite new here. It is certainly better to ask the Minister an interpellation or a written question about it. An investigation that has been directed by the government is in place. The inquiry proposal is submitted for consultation in the usual order, and tomorrow we will be able to find out what views and objections the referral bodies have. If all the referral bodies think that the investigation proposal is sufficient and that the child's best interests are achieved, we are done. But if they don't, let's move on. That's my view of it.
i-6dac03c742168037-858	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Attefjord for his speech. I understand you and share your view that there is a special regime for the preparation of legislation. But the right information is important. Of course, I made contact with the Government about this investigation before Little Heart was murdered. As the Liberals are a partner party, I tried in every possible way to say that the most important measures should be taken in the framework of this investigation. The answer I got was that LVU already existed, but I already knew that because I have worked with it throughout my working time. When Little Heart then died so tragically – I myself am from Norrköping – I again contacted the responsible Minister. I tried again in every possible way and even asked to see the lawyers, who felt that this was impossible. I know that there is a detailed proposal that has not received much criticism, and there are various consultation bodies. But let's remember that lawyers are rarely policy makers, but they tell us how they have done before. One concern is about the European Convention and the right to family life, but the LVU restricts the right to family life. We have also introduced a child marriage crime, which in some parts balances on the edge but where we believe we should be a progressive voice. In view of this, it is important that the Riksdag takes the step, because the consultation bodies may not always have full control. How does Mr Attefjord think about it?
i-6dac03c742168037-865	Mr President, I would like to It is very competent organisations that are on the consultation list. There are a number of municipalities, there are a number of regions and SKR is well also involved, although it may not be the most progressive movement we have. In any case, I am confident that the children's rights organisations on the referral list will not duck to write what they consider to be the way to strengthening children's rights in legislation or in the processes. These are some of the voices that I think are most important to listen to. I don't know what else to say, but I trust they'll do their job as a referral.
i-6dac03c742168037-867	Mr President, I would like to I myself was involved in an investigation back in 2012 where Nyamko Sabuni had proposed the introduction of a child marriage crime. It was also proposed in the report we presented, but at that time neither this House nor the consultation bodies felt it was compatible. It was thought that it was too big a step to take, and there were various objections. Previously, it was possible to apply for permission to marry. There was a ban on getting married as a child, but exemption could be sought. It was felt then that it was a big step to go from that to that it would be criminalized. Now, a few years later, we have a child marriage crime in place. It was recognized that many children were affected by the legislation that was developed, forced marriage. It understood the vulnerable situation of children and how difficult it is to make a clear rejection as a child, which is necessary to prove the coercion factor. Some of the experience in other issues that are about challenging I mean that even if we are not satisfied, Sweden is a progressive voice. We will be. We'll be proud. Other countries should look at Sweden and think that it is a pioneer country. But it takes brave adults to challenge parental rights. We have made the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law and are raising it to the skies, but it must be remembered that Swedish legislation has gone much further than the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is a compromise between the countries of the world. On one point, however, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is actually stronger than Swedish legislation, and it concerns the right of children to be heard. Regardless of what you think now that the decision has been made, it is rather bad that children should not be allowed to speak on such an important and crucial issue as that an adult has exposed you and created trust. The children's lives have not been put on pause, but they have created a life in the meantime.
i-6dac03c742168037-872	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I agree with much of what the honourable Member says. We can go back to the comparison with child marriage, which of course is an important issue. I think it is great that the new legislation is in place. There, however, the Riksdag chose to go the usual way. It went a little slower than one could have wished, but it was not investigated separately in the Riksdag. Now I see that the honourable Member means that it did – okay. At least the picture I got is that it's not the usual time but that the government is given a mission to investigate. If you are not satisfied with the proposals, you have to send them back for re-processing – this is how the time needs to be. Both this and previous Swedish governments have received a number of reprimanders or what they call it because the law has not been prepared well enough. This is not good. It needs proper preparation. I agree that there is a problem with the fact that the law is a little more conservative than politics, but you still need to get the law on the train.
i-6dac03c742168037-876	Mr President, I would like to All children have the same rights and equal value. The best interests of the child shall be taken into account in all decisions concerning children. Each state shall take full responsibility for and use its resources to comply with children's rights. Where necessary, States shall cooperate internationally. Children are entitled to their own name and citizenship. As far as possible, the child is right to know who its parents are and to receive their care. Children have the right to their identity, citizenship, name and family relationships. Children should not be separated from their parents, except when necessary for the best interests of the child. Mr President, I would like to What I have now read is a selection of articles in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now also Swedish law. For some time now, we have had extremely serious and very touching stories about shortcomings and irregularities in international adoptions of children made in the middle of the 20th century. These are children who have been abducted from their parents in one way or another, where it is obvious that it has not been done in a child-right or legally secure way and where both the biological parents, the children and their parents here in Sweden have fallen victim to people who in a seemingly organised way have made children into commodities in a market. Mr President, I would like to I cannot stress enough how sad this is, and it is absolutely impossible for me to understand what these children and their parents have gone through. But one thing is quite clear to me, Mr President: this should not be allowed to happen, not in Sweden and not internationally. Mr President, I would like to The regulatory framework for international adoptions has been continuously tightened since the emergence of the phenomenon in the middle of the 20th century. For the Swedish part, it can be divided into two phases: before and after 1997, when Sweden ratified the so-called Hague Convention. Fundamental to the Hague Convention is that States have a responsibility to ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account in each part of the adoption process. The Convention shall also, by means of certain guarantees between the associated States, prevent, inter alia, the abduction or trafficking of children in connection with international adoptions. The Convention on the Rights of the Child requires that what is considered to be the best interests of the child in the first place – always – should be taken into account in all actions concerning children. The States Parties have therefore, Mr President, committed themselves, among other things, to take all appropriate measures to ensure, when adopting internationally, that the placement does not lead to undue financial gain for the persons involved in it, that it is carried out in a child-rights-proof manner and that the children are not harmed, as is Sweden. In 2005, the regulatory framework was further tightened in Sweden. At that time authorisation was introduced in two stages, i.e. that countries, parts of countries or adoption contacts through which adoption organisations can communicate children are now being examined. It should therefore be safer now than in the middle of the 20th century. However, this does not mean, Mr President, that there are no problems in the system that we have now. The international adoption area has undergone major changes over the past 10 to 15 years. The number of adoptions in the world has fallen sharply. And while the number of adoptions has decreased, adoption cases have become increasingly complex and difficult to investigate. Children who become involved in international adoption often need more care. The development of fewer adoptions means, of course, that social welfare committees handle adoption investigations less and less often, which naturally leads to difficulties in maintaining competence in this area. Against this background, in February 2020 the Government commissioned Statskontoret to review the organisation of international adoption activities in Sweden. The mission involves considering whether the organisation should change based on a focus on how to ensure legal certainty, children's rights perspective and competence. Today, municipalities, authorized non-profit associations and the state share responsibility for international adoptions. Municipalities investigate, non-profit associations mediate and the state supervises. In its presentation of the assignment, Statskontoret says that the current organisation is appropriate and provides the best conditions for ensuring children's rights perspective and legal certainty in international adoption activities. In addition, Statskontoret considers that international adoptions have gradually become increasingly safe and secure, both for the children and for those who adopt, but that the perspective of children's rights and the rule of law must be further strengthened. The investigation shows, for example, that our supervisory authority for international adoptions, MFoF, has the relevant competence for its mission and that the adoption agencies have lived up to the conditions set by MFoF. They also assess that the agencies have the relevant competence to handle the business in an expert and discreet manner. However, they also point out that the work of agencies from the perspective of children's rights and the rule of law can be further improved. For example, they need to improve their work with audits and risk assessments of collaborative countries and their administrative practices. There is also scope for MFoF to further improve its supervisory and authorisation work in order to better ensure the perspective of children's rights and legal certainty in the adoption process. Mr President, I would like to I know that the government is now reviewing Statskontoret's proposals to see what measures need to be taken. I also know that in its budget proposal for 2020, the government allocated SEK 2.5 million in increased funding to MFoF and thereafter SEK 2 million annually. MFoF was also mandated in its 2020 regulatory letter to carry out a pilot project on individual support for adopted in the context of an increase in origin during 2020 – 2021. At the same time, they now consider that there are a number of aspects of the support for the search for origin that need to be further analysed, clarified and developed. One such example is where to build and manage the specific skills and capacities needed to provide effective support. In its regulation letter for 2021, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with carrying out a survey and analysis of how healthcare and social services meet adoption-specific needs of adopted people. They will also make proposals for possible development efforts in the field of developing knowledge and skills in order to meet adoption-specific needs. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, work is currently under way within the Government Office on a directive to investigate international adoption activities. There is a great need to clarify the functioning of systems and processes, the impact of the system and the responsibilities of the state and other stakeholders. When children are adopted, they should be adopted safely. Neither the children nor the parents deserve anything worse. Mr President, I would like to I know that I have exceeded my speaking time, but I thought it was important to point out that there are many important and important work going on within the Government Office on these important issues. In view of the ongoing work within the Government Office, I would like to endorse the reservation.
i-6dac03c742168037-902	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking all those people and all the organisations who have put this issue on the political agenda and who have worked to bring forward both abuses and crimes committed in international adoptions. Today, thanks to you, the question is on the table of both the government and the parliament. Thank you very much for your diligent commitment to this issue! Let us never forget that there are a great many victims in this regard. Behind every crime linked to adoption, there are many victims: adopted today, who have many times grown up and been deprived of the image of their origin and history, parents who have lost their children – it is difficult to imagine something worse as a parent – and adoptive parents who feel cheated and have been misled. In addition to these abuses and crimes that have been committed, there are shortcomings in society's ability to deal with the particular vulnerability of adopted people. According to data I have been overrepresented in the statistics for suicide, suicide attempts, child and adolescent psychiatry and so on. More knowledge is needed in different parts of society – pupil health, social services and healthcare – about how to prevent and respond to these needs. In order to highlight the unique needs of those adopted and to seek answers, the government has commissioned MFoF, the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, to provide individual assistance and support for the search of origin and also adoption-specific call support for those in need of it. These are measures that I think are good and urgent. The search for origin consists, among other things, of help in finding biological parents and relatives and in providing support when there are suspicions of irregularities in adoptions. As I understand it, there are about eighty people who have received help and support in this way in 2020. But I am convinced that this figure will increase over time as more things are revealed about this. With regard to the high-profile adoptions from Chile, it feels good that the government has offered the Chilean government to be helpful in their, as I understand it, extensive investigation that is ongoing, in the same way as it has been helpful for individuals here in Sweden to seek answers. I also understand that the Riksdag and the Government have partly agreed that we need to get an investigation under way. We share the assessment that there is a need to clarify how systems and processes functioned in international adoption activities as well as to know what effects the system has had and what responsibility both the state and other actors have had. There are a number of work going on within the Government Office, which the previous speaker developed more, to develop an investigation directive. That is why I am in favour of the reservation in the report, because I believe that we need to await the investigation directive prepared by the government.
i-6dac03c742168037-910	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Social Affairs, on its own initiative, has drawn up the subject which we are now debating and which will be decided next week. The proposal for an initiative came from the Left Party, and it has brought together a majority which means that we are now presenting it to the House for decision. Over 60,000 children have been adopted since the 1960s. Sweden has the largest proportion of adopted children per capita. There have been international adoptions from Chile as well as many other countries. For a long time there were more requests for adoptions than were available. Perhaps it contributed to the development of corruption and crime. However, whatever the reasons for the emergence of crime and irregularities, it is of the utmost importance today that we make visible what happened in an independent way and that we learn lessons so that it does not happen again. What has happened has been unethical and illegal. For the one who lost his child, for the one who was abducted and for the one who received a child, it is necessary that we get to the bottom of everything that has happened. You can't cross a line over what's been. It has to come out in the light. The adopted have a right to know. An investigation is necessary, and it must be done in the right way. Mr President, I would like to The Social Committee believes that the government must clarify how the adoption agency has functioned in Sweden. We believe that what is to be examined is adoptions from the middle of the 20th century until today without restrictions – everything from when it started and until what is happening now. The committee also believes that the government must urgently set up an investigation to clarify how Swedish authorities and adoption organisations have handled international adoptions. We need to know. The victim of a crime must be reproved. That's why investigation is necessary. Are these irregularities still going on? We need to know. We need to know what has happened so that we can make the right decisions for today's activities and future adoption activities. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that an investigation must be made independent and that it should be knowledgeable experts used. It is necessary to ensure that the victim of irregularities and criminal offences has confidence in the outcome of the investigation. The government needs to provide the investigation with the necessary resources to gather as broad a knowledge as possible. Knowledge from other countries' investigations, such as those of the Netherlands, needs to be used. The government has stated that it will set up an investigation and that this will not be limited to what concerns Chile alone – pretty much. However, with the initiative and the forthcoming decision, the majority of the Committee on Social Affairs wants to establish that there is a majority, perhaps a united parliament, which wants all adoptions from the centre of the 20th century to be investigated and that all the countries concerned are included. No limitations – everything must be brought to light. It is a strength that there is broad parliamentary support for a thorough and independent investigation. Now it is the government's task to make it possible. Mr President, I would like to In 1997 we ratified the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions. Just as Mrs Bladelius mentioned, the conditions of authorisation at home in Sweden have been tightened up a couple of times. But when I listen to Mr Bladelius, I think it is good that we have done a lot but that it is not possible to be satisfied. Everything we have done is not enough when we know today that it has not been close enough. Illegality, irregularities and crime have taken place, and we have not yet made it visible or taken responsibility for it. It is clear that we have not done enough. Illegal acts have been committed when children have been adopted without the consent of their biological parents, their first parents. Children have been illegally separated from their parents. It's serious. In order to decide how to look at adoption activities in the future, we need to have an independent investigation into what happened. It's gonna be painful. But it is already painful with all that we know from the Chilean investigation into the criminal acts there and what the investigation in the Netherlands has shown. There's no hiding. It's painful. I am pleased that we are now making this statement from Parliament. An announcement is there to both press the government and mark the opinion of the majority. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6dac03c742168037-921	Mr President, I would like to When you get information about the criminal investigation that is now going on in Chile, you react very strongly – at least I did. The fact that there are suspicions that children have been abducted, in practice kidnapped, and that it is linked to suspicions of irregularities in adoption activities is so unthinkable and horrendous that it is difficult to grasp. I can only try to understand how the many who have been affected, who are now filled with unanswered questions and who feel extremely bad about this actually feel and feel. But what I can do is try to contribute to Sweden as a nation doing everything we can to answer questions and provide support to those affected when this is needed. That is why I would like to thank the Left Party for a welcome and important committee initiative which has allowed the Social Committee to re-assess itself to push the government on an extremely urgent issue. The Swedish Government must do everything to meet the concerns and suffering of both biological parents and adoptive parents, as well as adopted children, and thus get to the bottom of these issues in an investigation. Mr President, I would like to Today's News has made the review Children at all costs. My party chairman reacted strongly to the stories of irregularities in several countries that Sweden adopted from. Ulf Kristersson, who has a proven and strong commitment to children, especially vulnerable children, proposed a White Paper on international adoptions, a proper White Paper that goes to the bottom of all suspicions. He proposed to cooperate with existing criminal investigations, such as the one in Chile. The mismanagement investigation could serve as an inspiration. It was produced to order by the then government when Swedish foster children in the early 2000s testified about abuse and neglect. Mr President, I would like to I think I speak for a lot of people when I say that love for a child is one of the greatest and strongest men human beings can know. That love goes beyond most other things in life and means stronger feelings of everything from anxiety to joy and pride. As we repeatedly have reason to fortify in the Social Affairs Committee, love and parenthood go far beyond blood ties. Our committee has overly devoted itself to parenthood in recent years, where blood ties are no guarantee of love, care or security. Not least, the committee is now dealing with extensive legislative work to ensure that the child's best interests are given a stronger focus in Swedish law. However, not everyone can carry or have children on their own. Over the years, adoptions have been an important way for children to have loving families when their own biological families are missing or for various reasons not working. Sweden has been a country that has received children from large parts of the world since the middle of the 20th century and has been able to offer them a future in a hopefully loving family and a future in a country where everyone has the opportunity to freely educate and carry out life dreams. Then it is incredibly difficult to deal with suspicions of irregularities and that children have been taken away from their biological parents. Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Committee on Social Affairs has worked constructively together to press the government on an extremely important issue. We urgently want to see a Swedish investigation that goes to the bottom of it and clarifies how Swedish authorities and adoption organisations have handled international adoptions to Sweden from the middle of the 20th century until today. I am pleased that the committee extends its mandate to all international adoptions. It should not make any difference if you come from Chile, China, Colombia or any other country as an adopted child to Sweden. You have the right to receive answers to your questions and the right to receive support. However, if we go through the legislation in force, we are struck by the relatively late arrival of comprehensive legislation and on-the-spot checks. For quite some time adoptions were an unregulated operation without today's control and contact with other countries. Chile, for example, was a military dictatorship. It makes me think of today's situation for children born of surrogate motherhood. Today, this is completely unregulated. By blocking important proposals to enable altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden, several parties avoid these children having to experience the same anxiety and feeling in the future. Today, this is as unregulated as adoptions were for too long. While the parents of adopted children today and for many years, for example, go through hard checks and interviews to be approved as adoptive parents, parents of surrogate children can have children without the slightest control. Surrogate children are, by the way, a terrible word and expression in themselves – children can and should never be surrogate for anything. If we are concerned that women are being mistreated or that there are irregularities in surrogate motherhood, we should draw conclusions from the debate we are having today. Child-longing adults find ways to have children without Swedish legislation. It shouldn't be like that. For example, a social committee which, in so many other contexts, works with the best interests of the child in the eyes, at least for the sake of the children, should see that we need to do something. The number of children in Swedish preschools and schools – in Swedish society – who have come to the world through surrogate motherhood or host motherhood, which is by the way a much more beautiful word, is steadily increasing. There are a wide range of issues linked to this that we can no longer turn a blind eye to. We also have a responsibility to these children. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to stress sufficiently how important it is that the person appointed by the government for this extremely important task is independent and irreproachable. The resources provided must be sufficient, and it is wise to take on board the skills and knowledge of countries that have begun this journey. Not least today, all the adults adopted to our country should be able to feel confident that the investigation and the person responsible for it will do their utmost to clarify how Swedish authorities and adoption organisations have handled international adoptions to Sweden from the mid 1900s to today. Every stone should be lifted on. Each document should be read and examined, however painful it will be.
i-6dac03c742168037-937	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. On a previous question, addressed to the Minister in 2019, I have expressed my concern about the situation regarding international adoptions, particularly those from Chile. In the criminal investigation conducted by Chile, we can note more than 600 children who are related to and concern Sweden. There have been hair-traveling stories, including about children kidnapped in hospitals right after birth. Here are some parts that are freely translated from the Chilean investigation, which states: It is a fact that hundreds of children were taken from their parents to be given away for adoption, mainly abroad. No one questioned the fact that children disappeared at birth. There were shortcomings in health care, a lack of optimal birth registration and the presence of groups acting in coordination to remove minors, especially in cases involving vulnerable women. 中 The procedures were different, but most recurrent was the method of making the mother believe that the child had died. This ensured that no subsequent demands came, since the parent was convinced that it was an irreversible fact. The fraud involved a number of individuals, such as health professionals and medical personnel, as well as the civil register and coordinated organisations acting together outside the hospital buildings, then delivering the stolen minors to the families that would become the children's future parents. In this way, public organisations and private entities were jointly involved in this process. On the basis of the investigation, I asked the Minister of Social Affairs what the government intends to do to ensure that Sweden does not allow adoptions on incorrect grounds, not least on the basis of the situation in Chile. The Minister stated in his reply that the state must guarantee as far as possible that each adoption takes place in a legal and ethical manner. This seems to me to be an absolutely fundamental principle, but we can now conclude that this fundamental principle has fallen seriously. Reporting on adoptions has continued in the media. For decades international adoptions have been lined with irregularities. Little has happened in Sweden, despite Sweden's commitment to the Hague Convention back in 1997. This would in some sense be a guarantee of legal certainty for adoptions. Article 21 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The newspaper Dagens Nyheter noted last spring that the Social Democratic-led government already in 1997 wished to obtain evidence on how international adoptions were conducted. The then supervisory authority, NIA, replied to the government and described the situation in 17 different adoption countries. The report contained information on serious maladministration in a majority of countries, but no investigation into the findings appears to have been carried out. It has now been 24 years since the then government received the report from NIA. It is three years since the first interim report of the Chilean investigation was released. We are now in this House with a proposal from the Committee on Social Affairs for a declaration to the government that we are demanding action. The Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hallengren, has, in connection with a later question, which I asked in April of this year, stated that it intends to initiate an investigation in the autumn. However, the majority of the committee sees the need for us to really show how urgent the issue is for us and how urgent it is that an investigation is now being carried out. We can't wait any more years. Something that is very important to me is stated in the announcement: We primarily want to get an investigation to clarify Sweden's responsibility for the adoptions that have been communicated that according to the Chilean investigation are based on – to say the least – irregularities. What was the process in Sweden at that time? It's also important for me to know. I hope that this will be included in the investigation initiated by the government and that more countries will be looked at. I hope, not least, that there will also be proposals on how Sweden will continue to work to strengthen legal certainty when it comes to international adoptions. Furthermore, the Swedish Democrats in the report we have just discussed, Social Services and Children's Affairs, have asked for an investigation that looks at how we can finance Swedish adoption activities in a more quality-proof way. Unfortunately, no other party took note of our motion, but there is a chance to change it. In fact, in recent years the number of adoptions has fallen sharply. Between 2008 and 2018, the number of international adoptions has decreased by 70 percent, from 610 to 190 according to MFoF statistics. The reduction in the number of children mediated affects the financial situation of authorised organisations. This could mean that the need to communicate takes more space than would be desirable, i.e. that the best interests of the child become secondary because the organisation's need for income for survival and in order to retain the skills expected to be prioritised. Today, parts of the allowance are based on the number of children delivered. It is our opinion that the government should also investigate how the distribution of benefits to adoption activities can look like so that they are not based on the number of children mediated. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to say that these are extremely touching stories that I have heard. I can sense the thoughts and feelings as well as the frustration that parents who have lost their children, but also the parents who have adopted in good faith, must have. I also understand all the children who are now adults, at my own age, and who are looking for their history. I sincerely hope that the investigation that is now being initiated can provide some answers and also clarify our responsibility, Sweden, in this.
i-6dac03c742168037-957	Mr President, I would like to Starting a family is something that is important to many. Today, there are several ways to start a family. This was not the case before, but then there was a way – a man and a woman – and then there was the possibility of adoption. Many people chose to use international adoptions when they could not have children in other ways. In Sweden it was seen as something very good. It was also seen as a form of help to some people, and many of these children have had a good upbringing with their Swedish parents. But now we know more than we knew then. We know that not all adoptions were voluntary. Some of these parents were persuaded to give up their child. Sometimes they were deceived when it was claimed that the child had died. However, I am quite convinced that the Swedish families and parents were unaware of what happened. Rather, it was seen that this was an opportunity to start a family and also a help to the people. Mr President, I would like to In the late 1990s, Sweden signed the Hague Convention. When we did, there was a better follow-up and control of international adoptions. We got a national authority, we got regulations and we got control and follow-up. After that, further tightening has been done. The question still remains. Did everything go right? Were there still irregularities after we introduced these things? We need to make sure it was actually right. It is therefore not enough to investigate what happened until the end of the 1990s. As my colleague, Waltersson Grönvall, was a little while ago, parents today can use host motherhood to have children. I think it is good, but it is important that we allow an altruistic host motherhood in Sweden. It is also important that we ensure that we create security for the children born with the help of host motherhood, that we learn from what has happened before, because if we do not work on that issue there is a risk that it will happen again. Here the government needs to take steps forward. We are standing here today because we know that not all international adoptions were entirely right. We know that by adopting those who have grown up in Sweden begin to search for their roots and then discover that the stories and stories that their Swedish parents have received do not match the reality they hear about when they get in touch with their biological parents. This concerns not only Chile, but more countries. We are also standing here because the media drew attention to these issues, both this spring and a few years ago. Me and some others in the Riksdag drew attention to these issues in 2018 – 2019 through various questions, interpellations and movements. I then asked the question how we can learn from this. How can we improve? How are we going to counteract this happening again? I was then told by the government that we are waiting for the criminal investigation going on in Chile. We must investigate the crime first, before we can look at what Sweden has done or not done, they said. I don't understand why. We must be able to see what is our part in this. As I said, it is not just about adoptions from Chile, but there are more countries. I therefore think that we have lost time. We've lost another three years. Now the government has changed its mind. Now you're going to do an investigation. But you choose not to take it all the way and actually investigate the adoptions that have taken place to date. For how do we know that everything has improved? We need to look at the whole picture. Do we have the right organization? Do we have the right control? We can't lose any more time. We must ensure as far as possible that it cannot happen again. Mr President, I would like to Children are entitled to their origins and family life. Therefore, we need to know that the right child is adopted for the right reasons. That is why I am in favour of the committee's proposal to investigate until now so that we ensure that illegal international adoptions do not take place again.
i-6dac03c742168037-970	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I am very pleased that the Social Committee has adopted the Left Party's committee initiative to investigate the international adoptions to Sweden. It means so much to so many people, both in our country and in other countries. Because it is not only people in Sweden who want answers about international adoptions. People in other countries are also waiting to find out what happened. Children, parents, siblings, grandparents want answers. When someone calls from Chile and desperately says, "You're my last hope," then it sticks in the heart. For three years I have been pushing the issue of international adoptions and trying to get an investigation. But I have not trodden up a new path, but I have followed the footsteps that others have already trodden up. For a long time adopted and those who have lost their children have worked to clarify what has happened, both individually and in organizations. They have told, explained and showed. The testimony is heavy to take in. Although it is difficult to reach out and hear, they have not given up and have continued to fight. They have hunted their own tracks, translated documents and traveled. They have organized themselves to help each other reach out. Organisations such as Chileadoption.se and AEF have supported and disseminated information. I have listened to them and had the opportunity to help along the way. Mr President, I would like to Since 2018, the Left Party in the Riksdag has been working on the issue of setting up an investigation of international adoptions. In February 2018, Swedish Television News noted suspected irregularities in adoptions from Chile during the 1970s and 1980s. Poor mothers had been moved to give up their children during what they thought was a temporary period, but in fact documents had been falsified and children adopted away to Sweden. Chile took this issue seriously and set up both a parliamentary investigation and a criminal investigation. The parliamentary inquiry is complete and has given clear information. There you can read: The disappearance of children was a reality for women throughout the country who were suffering from poverty or who lacked a supporting network. Different methods were used. The most common way was to get the mother to believe that the son or daughter had died, thus avoiding later complaints because the mother became convinced that she was faced with a fact that was irreversible and that could not be called into question. The remains of the newborn were not handed over, including birth certificate, registration of birth or death certificate. The criminal investigation is still ongoing, and over 600 of the 2,200 adoptions from Chile to Sweden are included in that investigation. The investigation has been going on for several years and is likely to continue for a long time. Mr President, I would like to As early as 2018, I felt that there had been enough information on irregularities and that a Swedish investigation could not wait. We've raised motions to set up investigations. We have on several occasions asked the minister responsible, both in writing and orally, what measures the government intends to take to clarify how international adoptions have been handled by authorities and adoption organisations. Chile is the example that has received the most attention recently, but suspected irregularities have also been reported from other countries, such as Colombia, Sri Lanka, China, South Korea and Ethiopia. The list could be long. There are many testimonies to be heard, including in Dagens Nyheter's major review of international adoptions. The answers to the questions have been to wait and see what happens in Chile. You were supposed to wait until all the investigations in Chile were complete. It was to be awaited and expected, and the response to the investigation failed. Mr President, I would like to Instead, the responsibility lies with the individual to seek on his own when, in fact, it is a system error. It is good that the government spends money to help individuals, but it was a system solution that was needed. Irregularities that have emerged and been reported have been so extensive and systematic that it needed to be clarified how this has been handled by the Swedish side. It is unreasonable for the individual to bear the whole burden himself. On 21 January this year, the answer from the government was that so much new had not happened and that it would continue to follow developments and wait. But then came a major review in DN on February 19, and suddenly, on February 22, the adoption agency was to be reviewed. Nothing new has happened and it is now to be investigated. What happened in between? I haven't got an answer yet. In connection with the review by DN, all parties in the Swedish parliament also expressed more or less that there were reasons to investigate the international adoptions. It raised hopes of hearing the Left Party's proposal for an investigation. When the same proposal was up last year it did not go through, but now an investigation will become a reality – which I am very happy about. Once there, it is important that all interested parties are involved in the investigation, present documents, answer questions and are transparent. Everything needs to be looked through, and then everyone has to help and stand up. No organisation or person shall be able to stand by and refuse to reply. People deserve answers — not excuses. Mr President, I would like to I also think it's important that the investigation looks at all adoptions. When Minister Lena Hallengren has spoken, she has said that an investigation will include adoptions until the mid-1990s. But why limit it and stay there? Adoptions in the 21st century also need to be investigated, as our proposal and the decision of the committee say. Sweden is not the first to investigate international adoptions. Chile has investigated, Switzerland has decided to investigate and the Netherlands has investigated. The Dutch investigation points to systematic errors, falsified documents, fraud, corruption and pressure on poor women to give up their children – and this also into the 21st century. Mr President, I would like to The adoption scandals again show how the most vulnerable people are exploited and beaten for profit. It is the poor, indigenous people and those without a social safety net who are the victims of trafficking in human beings. Several states, including Sweden, are involved, and over the years many mistakes have been made. Many have been affected, and they have the right to know what has happened and why. It is good that Sweden has now begun to assume its responsibility for what has happened and the human trafficking that has affected so many people. It can't happen again.
i-6dac03c742168037-988	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals want to thank the Left Party – and you, Jon Thorbjörnson. We've heard you tell us about your fight. I don't know exactly what you said about not taking a new path, but you've definitely been plowing ground for a long time, and that's why we've also been on the path you've led us to. An incredible thank you for your genuine work. I'm being taken, and I'm even having trouble getting up the speaker's seat and talking after you. This is what we politicians are for – to really make a difference. When you fall asleep tonight, you may feel that you have really done something amazing. It is so incredibly important that we urgently set up an investigation with the aim of clarifying how Swedish authorities and adoption organisations have handled international adoptions to Sweden from the middle of the 20th century. As the honourable Member mentioned, and several others, the investigation will cover all these adoptions until today. The fact that a large majority is behind the proposal is fantastic. In certain situations one really wishes that one could say that everyone is backing it up. I find it difficult not to support the proposal when you become so aware of how bad it has been and what a huge responsibility you have to know. I would also like to thank the National Organization of Transnational Adoptions, the TAR, for their important work. They have sent a truly solid piece of material to shed light on why it is so extremely important that an investigation is set up to clarify Sweden's handling of the approximately 60 000 transnational adoptions that have been carried out. It is important here that we look at this important issue from a structural perspective of rights. It's not about everyone's relationship with their adoptive family. There are 60 000 unique relationships, and we can have two thoughts in our heads at the same time. As the honourable Member, Mr Thorbjörnson, was on the subject, this is really akin to human trafficking and nothing else. Chile has now started an important work, but as many people have done, we must not get bogged down in the fact that the conditions surrounding these adoptions alone are to be investigated. The investigation will cover all adoptions, from all countries, from the middle of the 20th century to today. Behind these figures is enormous suffering and grief. We heard Mr Thorbjörnson tell us about it in a strong way, and I think we were all strongly touched by DN's spring reporting on parents deprived of their children and children who have lost their biological parents. Children have lived with a feeling of being abandoned, and mothers have had their children abducted and the information that the child died. As one of the affected children, now an adult, puts it: ..................................................... The Liberals, like many others here, believe that the Dutch investigation should serve as a model for the drafting of directives for the independent investigation which a majority in this House has now supported and that it is important that the investigation be set up urgently. It's an investigation to prove that we want to know, many of whom have been involved. It is only then that we can give redress to anyone who may have been exposed to unethical and illegal adoptions and focus on the psychosocial needs of adopted people. Similarly, those adopted who want to be helped to seek information about their origins should be entitled to it. It is totally unacceptable for adopted persons to be left alone to deal with any illegal acts to which they have been subjected. This responsibility must be assumed by the state, regardless of whether the investigation concludes that Sweden has been involved in irregularities in connection with transnational adoptions to Sweden or not. When we know, we can take adequate measures to ensure that something like this never happens again. Let us be inspired by the Netherlands, which has taken responsibility and taken action! They want to know, and we want to know. That's how we take responsibility, and that's how we can guarantee change.
i-6dac03c742168037-1000	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank my party colleague, Jon Torbjörnsson, who has managed to present the committee initiative that we are debating today. Yes, Jon, we didn't think we'd stand here now and make this decision, but we do. This issue has been highlighted by many adopted organizations for a long time without being heard. Here I cannot help but point out that today's decision is a first step towards repairing a great injustice. Already decades ago there were reports of irregularities in international adoptions. Unfortunately, they were allowed to continue, and that in itself meant allowing crime to continue without any action. My family comes from one of the areas in Chile most affected, Wallmapu in southern Chile. Why is that? Because in Wallmapu there is a large part of Chile's largest indigenous group, Mapuche, a group which, in addition to being exposed to racism and discrimination, is economically vulnerable. When the power relationship between the first family and adopters is so unequal, it becomes difficult to find ways of adopting, especially if adoption takes place from dictatorships, pseudo-democrats and corrupt countries. The unequal power relationship is repeated in China, Ethiopia, Colombia, South Korea, Eritrea and many other countries. The important thing about this committee initiative is that it broadens the investigation to all adoptions from the mid 1900s onwards. Now that we're finally investigating, let's do it properly! This will be a good basis for changing the way adoption takes place and who should have power over them. Today, unfortunately, adoption organisations own the documents of the adopted, and in view of corruption, they do not become a neutral party to this. The documentation must be handled by the Swedish authorities, and the adopted should be fully transparent in their own papers. Sweden currently has the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. The Convention on the Rights of the Child explicitly states that identity is extremely important and that you have the right to know who your parents are, as far as possible. If you wonder about your origins, you should be helped to find out what you need to know. When illegal adoptions take place, children are deprived of all their rights. It's not an adoption; it's more like trafficking. The least we can do is support the adopted in getting the right to their identity, support in the legal and resources needed to make a return trip to the first country. They have struggled without the support they are entitled to. There's a rush to get the investigation in place. The adopted have fought long enough to get this through, but so have the first families. Unfortunately, we see in Chile that more and more parents are going away before they manage to find their children, let alone get redress. Mr President, I would like to This investigation should be carried out by independent investigators, and the organisations of the adopted must be an important part of this. It should be based on the adopted rather than adoption organisations. I would like to conclude with one of the adopted words about today's decision: Investigate all adoptions, no matter how uncomfortable it is for the Swedish self-image! No más silencio!
