i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-13	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a unique country with many different systems, which often offers great opportunities in life. The study support system is such a unique system. It offers many different opportunities throughout most of life. The Moderates have several important movements in this area. Of course, we are all behind it, but I choose here to vote in favour of reservation 3. Although the study support system is unique, it must keep up with time and with the changes that are taking place in society. Today's students are now a large and very heterogeneous group. We need to relate to many changes, such as the change or disappearance of professions. You may need to study several courses, not just one. Many people read higher up in their ages, and there is often a need for further training. Furthermore, life expectancy increases, which affects the whole. The retirement age is changing; it is constantly changing. In addition, the pandemic has affected us a lot. There are also many other things that affect this. Madam President, I would like Student support is often crucial for people to be able to study further at different levels. Nowadays it also happens at different stages of life. It has become increasingly important that there are opportunities to change careers even if you are in the middle of life. This has been brought to a head in connection with the pandemic. A lot of people have had to change jobs. Unfortunately, many have also lost their work. There has also been a need to improve in order not to end up in unemployment. The Coronandem has presented our country with a series of new challenges. Thousands of people have lost their jobs. Some jobs have even disappeared. At the same time, there are professions where there is a shortage of trained staff. The need to train and adapt and develop skills in order to re-enter the labour market is very important. Even young people studying now will come to a new labour market when they come out. Probably not so many gold bells will be handed out in the future, as was previously given after long and faithful service. Madam President, I would like When old ways of working change, there is also a change in the economy, which affects the labour market. The labour market is becoming increasingly digitised. It places additional demands on people who need to equip themselves with new skills and improve themselves in order to keep their jobs. We see a greater need for skills development and career changes. It will be more the rule than the exception. In order to secure working life, this is something that will have to be demanded in the future. Both companies and the public need to find new ways of meeting the transitions that can take place in working life and often in the middle of life. You have to get used to the fact that you will probably have to change your profession during your working life. Madam President, I would like It is important that there are good opportunities to change careers. Therefore, the Moderates made several suggestions in 2019 to make it easier to study in adulthood. Among other things, we talked about raising the free amount, increasing the number of weeks of study for those who have reached the age of 40, raising the age limit for receiving student funds and providing additional loans for students with children. A further challenge is that there is a shortage of student housing in several locations. Student housing is also expensive, so many students cannot afford to live in a student dwelling. Madam President, I would like Against this background, we welcome the fact that the government is making efforts to improve the possibility of study funding higher up the age range. That's what we've been doing for years. For example, the increase from 56 to 60 years is very welcome. It's taken a long time, but now it's in place. However, we see that more changes are needed. We want to be able to influence this further and make it easier to study in adulthood. That is why we have put forward motions for more changes. We are not entirely satisfied with what is now. There's a good way to go, and you're gonna have to change. For example, there are variations with scholarships when studying. It can also be linked more to the profession through companies – all this to improve for those who want to study at higher ages. We do not really understand why we want to reject a motion that is just about improving something. There are many changes in the committee's proposals, but we want to improve them further.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-24	Madam President, I would like At last, we will enable higher-age studies. Although some believe that Britt-Britt-Marie, who has turned 45, should make room for young people, we believe in the Swedish Democrats that there is room for both of them, and that Britt-Britt-Marie has much more to give, even long after 45. We Swedish democrats welcome the proposals to enable higher-age studies, but believe that there is room to do it even better. We have therefore chosen to submit a follow-up motion. Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 4 on age limits in the study aid system. Of course, we are also behind reservation 2. The proposal proposes an amendment to existing legislation in such a way that the respective age limit for when student grants can be granted should be increased by four years from the current levels. With an older and also healthier population, it is reasonable that opportunities to get a good education follow the same trend. For this reason, with a few exceptions, we very much support the Government's proposal. In our motion we have made a proposal that generates the same results, in terms of the number of years, as the bill, but with a model for future revision as society changes without the need for decisions on this matter to be made again. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is unnecessary to lock up at an established age as the bill is now designed. As our population lives longer, and hopefully is getting healthier up in the old age, the decision on the age limit will have to be set again and again. We therefore propose that the age limit for student support should be linked to the minimum age for guarantee pension less 5 years. At present, the minimum age for guarantee pension is 65 years, which would mean that the age limit for student aid would be raised to 60 years from the current 56 years, as the government's proposal is 65 minus 5 years. We already know that the age limit for the guarantee pension is proposed to be increased to 66 years from 2023 onwards, which would mean that the age limit for student aid based on our model would automatically be raised to 61 years without the need for previous decisions to be revised, reviewed and re-decided. With regard to the age limit for repayment, we propose that it should be set at the same age limit as for guarantee pension plus 6 years, which would mean that the age limit for repayment would be raised to 71 years from 2021 onwards, also in line with the Government's proposal. The limit would automatically be raised to 72 years in 2023 in case the age limit for the guarantee pension is raised to 66 years, as announced. We also propose that the reduction in the right to borrow be fixed at the age limit for the guarantee pension – minus 14 years to minus 5 years – that is, what is happening today over the course of 9 years. This is again in line with the Government's proposal but is linked to the fixed age limit for the guarantee pension. With the help of the model we propose, age limits for student support, reimbursement and degression will automatically follow the development of society as the age limit for guarantee pension is adjusted as our world and society change. The fact that we are now raising age limits is a good thing, but it could even have been a little better. Once again, I am in favour of reservation number 4.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-33	Madam President, I would like One of the most important prerequisites for making knowledge and education accessible to more people is a study support system that provides social and financial security for students in everything from adult education to college. The funding of studies is an important reason for the decline in social misrecruitment to higher education. In order for the student funds to continue to have this recruiting effect, the Left Party believes that they must respond to students' living expenses. It should be possible to receive student funding throughout your studies. We believe that the proportion of grants in study funds should be increased so that the burden of debt does not become more burdensome. It should also be possible to receive increased grants under certain conditions, for example for eligibility studies. With higher grants and lower loans, the repayment of the student loan is facilitated. Student conditions in unemployment insurance should be reintroduced. It is also essential to be able to study full-time and thus to create high-quality education. Madam President, I would like The bill proposes that the upper age limit for entitlement to study funding should be increased from 56 to 60 years and that the downgrading of the right to borrow, the so-called loan rap, should start at 51 years and end at 60. The upper age limit for eligibility for study start-up support is also raised from 56 to 60 years. It is also proposed that certain age limits relating to the repayment and cancellation of student loans be increased accordingly. This means that the repayment term shall be 25 years or the lower number of years remaining until the end of the year in which the borrower reaches 64 years and that the time for cancelling any outstanding debt shall be the end of the year in which the borrower reaches 71 years. The proposal also proposes that the Central Student Support Board should be given a slightly increased opportunity to post-check income in the event of a reduction in the annual amount of the reimbursement. For the Left Party, the opportunity for people to study far up in the ages is important. We therefore welcome an increase in age limits in order to benefit from study funding, although we are aware that very few are affected by this change. At the same time, the government wants to raise the write-off age for student loans to 71 years. This is a change that affects student loans for everyone, but above all for those who have low incomes and are unable to pay student loans on time. This can be about people who have become ill and cannot work full time, who have become unemployed or who simply do not have enough pay to pay off on time. We have already opposed an increase in the retirement age in Sweden, and we believe that this also goes against the policy we are pursuing. The government should focus on ensuring that everyone is able to work for an entire working life and that they are able to educate themselves as far up as possible in the ages. For the Left Party, it is important that those who want to retrain and study later in life should be able to do so. We see the increased depreciation age as a deterrent which will, above all, prevent people from studying to low-paid shortages in welfare. Therefore, the proposal to increase the depreciation age should be rejected. We believe that Parliament should reject the bill in those parts. In this connection, I would like to endorse reservation number 1. Madam President, I would like In order for the student aid system to be really fair in the long term and thereby be able to counter social misrecruitment in a better way than it is today, the system needs to be fundamentally changed. The long-term vision of the Left Party is to introduce salary and equal study to work. Investment in the salary of students must in the long term be seen as more beneficial both economically and socially, both for students and for society. It would mean greater opportunities for students to get a good education and increase their ability to participate actively in society. It is in the interests of society and democracy that people are well educated. In the long term, students would also have access to social security systems, and many of the social and economic problems currently faced by students would be solved.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-41	Madam President, I would like Charlotta Svensson in Helsingborg is 49 years old. She started studying as a sociologist a couple of years ago after she got stuck in her previous job and was psyched by her children to read on. After all, she's going to work many more years before retirement, and now she wants to be a curator. Charlotta is not alone. The group of students aged 47 or over has grown considerably in recent years. The majority are women, and the vast majority choose to go to college, just like Charlotta Svensson. While today's generous study support system provides the vast majority of economic opportunities to study, there is a need to adapt the regulatory framework to the increased demand for education and student support, not least higher up the age range. For this reason, the Government, in agreement with the cooperation parties the Centre Party and the Liberals, proposes that the upper age limit for entitlement to study funding be increased by four years, from 56 to 60, for loans taken from 1 January 2022. The fall in the right to borrow, the so-called loan rap, is also being moved — from 47 years, as it is today, to 51. The age limit for repayment is also increased by four years, as is the limit for the write-off of loans, which is advanced from 67 to 71. As is the case today, those who have difficulty paying off the loans may have annual amounts reduced in accordance with the existing security rules. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are convinced that better student support higher up in the age bracket can contribute to longer working lives and reduce the risk of people becoming unemployed. Job roles and tasks are changing at a high pace today. Many jobs requiring short-term training are disappearing, while the demands for knowledge and skills are increasing for new jobs. The dissemination of covid-19 has further strengthened the requirements for changing skills in the labour market. All in all, this means that many people will have to change their careers and careers several times during their working lives. For education to be a possible alternative, a person who wants to or needs to study must also be able to finance his or her studies. Support for studies, Madam President, is an important part of education policy, which will help to recruit both women and men, smooth out differences between individuals and groups and have a good impact on the economy over time. It strengthens the individual. It strengthens equality. It strengthens our whole society. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are therefore always prepared, step by step, to reform the study aid system in order to enable as many as possible to retrain or retrain, not only once but several times in life if necessary. In 2018, we increased the grant part by SEK 300. Now we are taking the next step by raising the age limit to 60 years. Madam President, I would like There are several reasons why the limit should be set at 60 years. An age limit should be at a level that allows it to cover existing needs, while at the same time there should be sufficient time left of working life to justify the subsidy from a societal perspective. Another important aspect is that higher-age people's indebtedness should not risk becoming too burdensome so that student loans cannot be repaid. An important starting point in the study funding system is that the loans should be repaid. Therefore, there is the so-called loan rap that limits the possibility of taking out student loans. The new rules will apply from the age of 51. In addition, few students after the age of 60 are considered to have little need for student support. Against this background, the 60-year age limit is both reasonable and balanced. Madam President, I would like Although the student benefit is favourable, there are many who refrain from studying because they do not dare or can use the student aid system, nor do they have any other opportunities to make a living during their studies. Doubt often stems from uncertainty when it comes to own study capacity, which in turn can be linked to a social background where there has been neither studies nor even smaller student loans. This is particularly true of older students who need to study at lower levels of education. For this reason, the government introduced study start-up support in 2017, which is aimed at unemployed people aged 25-56 with short education and high educational needs who need to strengthen their ability to establish themselves in the labour market. Last year, nearly 6 000 people were granted the aid. Half of them chose to study in vocational education and training in areas such as health care, children and leisure and vehicles and transport, i.e. in large areas of short-term employment. Madam President, I would like We have a political responsibility to overcome economic barriers, lower thresholds and open doors so that even the unemployed with short education will dare to take that step towards more knowledge that will strengthen opportunities to get jobs in a changing and partly completely new labour market. Therefore, the age limit also needs to be increased for the start-up grant. The Swedish Democrats say no to this. They want the aid to be abolished in its entirety and write in their reservation: The aim of the initiative creates injustice between groups where other than new arrivals are directed to funding their studies with student loans. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I assumed that the members of the Swedish Democrats on the Education Committee were more familiar with the regulations than that, but there I went. Start-up support is aimed at unemployed people aged 25 to 56 with a great need for basic or upper secondary education in order to be able to enter the labour market. There is no other designated group. Is it perhaps for other reasons that the Swedish Democrats want to believe that the support is only aimed at new arrivals? Of those who received support last year, 34 per cent were unemployed Swedish citizens who, thanks to the support, dared to take the step towards further studies and a more decent life. The number of unemployed foreign citizens was 66 per cent and the vast majority had a permanent residence permit. Their ability to integrate and get jobs increased significantly. Madam President, I would like Can we afford to close the door to thousands of unemployed people who, every year for a maximum of 50 weeks, receive a monthly contribution if they are able to complete basic or upper secondary education that leads to increased opportunities to get a job, to have a decent life and increased opportunities to contribute to our common community building? Can we afford to close the door to more trained carers, nurses, nannys and bus drivers? No, Madam President, we cannot afford that. Finally, Madam President, in order to meet a rapidly changing labour market and adjusted retirement age limits, provide opportunities for longer working lives and reduce the risk of unemployment for people, the government proposes that the age limits of the student benefit system be increased by four years. All in all, the proposals mean that an additional 3 000 full-time students per year can receive student funding, which allows more people to change their working life higher up in the age group, just as Charlotta Svensson, 49 years old, in Helsingborg has done. I support the committee's proposal.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-63	Madam President, I would like We live in a changing world. Digitisation and automation affect not least our labour market. We are also looking over time at increased life expectancy thanks to medical and technological developments that make more people alive and healthier longer. All of this places greater demands on the possibility of retraining, conversion and further training even later in life. There may be several reasons for that for people around our society. It can be to immerse yourself in one's profession in line with major technological shifts. It may be a matter of changing tracks to make the body able to work longer or simply wanting to discover new career paths and thus get new impressions through new jobs. It is important for people to have the possibility of transition and further training. This is important for companies to be able to obtain the right skills. It is important for society to cope with the matching that needs to be better in the labour market so that those companies that have a great need of labour can also get that skills. Raising the age of means of study, which is the subject we are debating today, is an important issue for the Center Party. We presented a report on this particular proposal in Almedalen 2017 and pushed this issue later in the election movement. It is now part of the January agreement that is being implemented together with the government and the Liberals. I am pleased that the issue we are debating today has finally come to the conclusion that we are going to take a decision on it. Raising the age limit is important precisely for the reason that people should be able to retrain and retrain later in life. The proposal increases the upper age limit for entitlement to study funding and start-up aid by four years from 56 years to 60 years and also adjusts the repayment period by the corresponding time. These are measures that promote precisely conversion and further training. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like It is a welcome and important reform that we are debating today. But me and the Center Party are convinced that further things are needed in the future to create better opportunities for people to further educate themselves and retrain later in life. Within the framework of the agreement signed by the social partners, a new parallel public study grant is to be introduced. We welcome that. It is part of a whole with greater flexibility in the labour market that can create even better conditions for retraining and further training and will contribute to further steps. Madam President, I would like Having said that, today's dossier and the decision we are going to take to raise the borders are very welcome. I hope that it will create new opportunities for more people to dare to take the step towards new challenges and education.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-71	Madam President, I would like As many of my colleagues in the Education Committee have already described, we have a changed labour market and increased life expectancy. Together with the Riksdag's decision on increased retirement age, this means that we have an increased need to be able to train and develop our skills later in life. This has become extremely clear not least during the coronapandemy. When changes occur in society in this way-- it feels like I'm repeating all your speeches here now-- it's reasonable that the study funds also follow in that part. We very much welcome the government proposal at this stage. This is something that the Christian Democrats have been working for a long time, and it is very gratifying. When the right to take study money later in life is given, it is also important to have a reasonable chance to repay the loans on time. Otherwise, too tight a time limit may hinder some so that they may not dare to take the step of skills development. The government has landed in a proposal for a four-year extension period, which has meant that it has landed at the age of 64 for the extended repayment period. On the Christian Democrats' side, in our previous policy, we have said that 65 years is the deadline that we have planned. But we now see that it is reasonable to keep these intervals of time, and we are content with the 64-year limit and rejoice that we are making a change at this stage. All in all, I and the Christian Democrats are pleased today that the government has now implemented the necessary policies that we Christian Democrats have been pursuing for years. Now more people will be given better opportunities for skills development and will, if necessary or the desire to be able to make a career change even in the middle of life.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety. This weekend two of my party friends, Barbro Westerholm and Arman Teimouri, wrote a debate article about the fact that living a lifetime also means a labour market that should take care of everyone who can and wants to contribute to society. Age is a poor measure of people's abilities, both in the labour market and in society as a whole. Madam President, I would like We see that the number of long-term unemployed older people is increasing while the Employment Service notes that older job seekers are on average less competitive in the labour market. It is partly about ageism, but also about a labour market that is not designed to exploit the experience and skills of older people. Add a system that has not been designed to change and change one's professional orientation even in the middle of life. The reforms that we are to decide on today are helping to change the latter. They enable longer working lives and reduce the risk of people becoming unemployed. It's about feeling the trust of society and thus a security in being able to go from one profession to training you to another even when you have passed for example the 50th mark. We have heard before, Madam President, what the reform means. I don't think I need to repeat it to the assembly. It is about increasing the right to study funding from 56 to 60 years of age and so on. We also know that this is an agreement between the Government, the Liberals and the Center Party within the framework of the January Agreement. Madam President, I would like We have also heard from this speaker that the study aid system as an opportunity for conversion has increased in importance in recent years. We know that the labour market no longer looks like it did a number of decades ago. It is constantly changing, which means that more people will have to educate themselves throughout their lives. This also requires that those who want to or need to study have the opportunity to finance their studies. Like my party friends, whom I started by referring to, I note that raising the age limit for study funds will not be enough. Strong work must also be done against ageism and age discrimination in the labour market. A natural part of us studying and changing higher age levels should also be the right to remain in work until, for example, 71 years. In Sweden we have a view that age would be a burden, when age should rather be an asset to the labour market. Finally, Madam President, as a Liberal, I must also say a few words about training for the sake of education itself and for the study itself. The motivation for both young and older people to be able to study at university is not only about equipping people for the labour market; they are also about increasing knowledge and education in Sweden. As much as culture must always have its own value and never be for anything else, education and training must also have their own value, no matter what age you have.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-85	Madam President, I would like We are now debating, as we have heard, a bill that is about studies with study funds being possible a little higher than is the case today. The Green Party has always – or at least as long as I can remember – pushed the issue of lifelong learning. It is about the ability to change direction in life, to gas and slow down in working life, to further train, to change careers, to break patterns and to try new ones. It is about the possibility of being curious and being allowed to be. Is that a political question? Yes, it is, because politics creates lock-in effects in the systems that we are building up. The pension system is one such example. The principle that it is the total income of life that makes it difficult to shift the level of pension, to slow down and to fall in working time – and then also in consumption – during a period of life. If you then decide to gas again and return to the standard's style of consumption, you will be punished much later in life by a reduction in your pension. The current trends indicate that we can be in a new green wave, accelerated by the pandemic and teleworking. Many people want to move out of the cities and leave their apartments in the areas where the housing shortage is greatest, instead of moving out to the countryside, growing their own food, becoming self-sufficient and reducing their climate footprint. Such behaviour, which has many positive effects, should be rewarded. But with the systems that we have built up and have today, we are being punished instead. Madam President, I would like The same applies to difficulties and obstacles to changing occupations or further training in order to cope better with the current profession. We have a strong dynamic in the labour market right now. Digitalisation, automation and this type of process impose completely new requirements on what qualifications apply to occupations in the labour market. We must build systems that enable, and encourage, lifelong learning. In the political landscape we have in Sweden, it is the Green Party that stands for this line. This is precisely what became clear earlier in the legislative term when the item on the period of development that the Green Party had entered into the January Agreement disappeared as the united opposition led by the Left Party together with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats broke out of the budget. They threatened to convict the government because we in the Green Party wanted to implement a proposal that would enable the transition later in life. Development time was a student support for people in the middle of working life in need of a change. It was communicated, especially by the Moderates, as leisure or free years, although it was about time for study. That is precisely the problem – not only with the Moderates, but with, I would say, the view of the entire bourgeoisie, for example, on studies: that it does not really count. You're not really in the system. Those who study are, like all others who do not wage, put in some sort of alienation and linked to it is also some form of shame, shame and social pressure. As a spokesperson for health insurance issues, I have talked about this many times, but it becomes very clear in all policy areas: it is the bourgeois definition of the work line that is the major problem. It is harmful to Sweden. The line of labour, based on the bourgeois definition, must be removed, and for many reasons – not least, in this matter, because we need to upgrade studies and education, but also education and progress. Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most educated people. We have a high level of education, we have a high proportion of researchers and we are well ahead as a formation nation. This is the result of a long-term education policy, where student aid has been absolutely crucial. We probably have the world's most generous, or at least one of the world's most generous, study aid systems. It covers all adults, from those who have very short education and have the opportunity for the special start-up support – a very good support that we should protect and develop – to those who conduct advanced studies at university and university level. Now the government is making this system even better, even more generous, by strengthening the possibility of education at an advanced age. We raise the age limit for student support by four years, from 56 to 60 years. Other age limits related to the loan tranche and the repayment system are included. But we also need to supplement this with more weeks for those who have studied for a long period of time in life and spent their allowed twelve semesters or six years for an education, perhaps a medical education. Although this is a generous system, with a grant component and a loan component, and will open up opportunities for a lot of people to educate themselves or further train themselves late in life, the levels are, after all, a little too low for it to be attractive enough for those who for many years have worked and had an income from work. There, the Green Party's proposal on development time would have been an important complement. That was not the case, which I am sorry. But the development time proposal has been fished up by the social partners, and a system of a kind of conversion study aid, which in all essential respects resembles development time, is currently being negotiated between the January parties in the Government Office. A good proposal is always worth coming back to, in this case as an important complement to what we are debating today. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I call for approval of the committee's proposal and the Government's proposal Better study support higher up the ages and rejection of the reservations of the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-97	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you can wonder if you are in different debates when you are seen in this Chamber. We have two separate debates. However, I still believe that Mr Berglund and I are in the same debate. I began my speech by saying that the Moderates think many proposals are good but want to do it better. We have a reservation, which Mats Berglund just told us that we want to reject, where we say that we want to do even more to be able to have studies higher up in the age group, to facilitate studies far up in life and to provide several opportunities. Then I do not think it is unknown that many higher studies lead to work, which I think is of course very good. That's usually why you study: in order to get a job. That the work line would be wrong, I therefore find very strange. I wonder where Mr Mats Berglund has been given that we would not think that studies are important. I talked for six minutes about how important it is to study and to be able to afford to study. Of course, the issue of freedom is also about how to prioritise the economy. We see that one can definitely prioritise studying, but we think that freedom is a wrong initiative.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-102	Madam President, I would like For my part, the free year was a good bet, at the time we introduced it. I would like to see us continue with it. The proposal we had in the budget a few years ago was not a free year. It was a study aid for people in the middle of life. You were supposed to study. I wonder why the Moderates persist in calling this period of development where one has to study for free years. That's what's so frustrating. Studying is not leisure time. I expect from students at universities, for example, that full-time full-time studies should be discontinued. It's not free time. However, it is being communicated in this way, and that is why I raised it in a somewhat acute way in my speech. I have noted that the Moderates have also exercised to raise the age of the student benefit system and speak well of studies. But there are a lot of areas about this work line. I mentioned my involvement in the Social Security Committee and health insurance, which constantly returns to the fact that it is wage labour that should count – not just any job, not the voluntary sector, not study and not disease. Everything that is not wage labour should be associated with some kind of social pressure and shame, which is very damaging t. I think that communication from the Moderates when we debated development time much was about that studies are not okay. It is always wage labour that applies in the bourgeois definition of the line of labour.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-106	Madam President, I would like I do not know if that was an answer, but thank you for the discussion. Perhaps I think that Mr Mats Berglund puts words in the mouth of the Moderates in terms of what we think. Perhaps we have not communicated well if Mats Berglund thinks so. I don't think we've done it. I think we have been very clear that we absolutely think that studies are important. We've been talking about lifelong learning. It is often a question of studies in order to keep their jobs and to be able to improve themselves. Because society is constantly evolving, one must study. I believe that this will be necessary, and we Moderates think it is important that we emphasise it. Then we think that the work line is important. As I said, many people study to be able to work, so it is very important. Then I myself have studied for many years and know that you read full time when you study – absolutely! I also recommend doing so. That we should look down on those who study is very strange to me. I strongly oppose that. I believe that the honourable Member has misunderstood the Moderates' policy quite strongly.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-110	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think I got it wrong. I don't think I put words in anyone's mouth either. Rather, I try to interpret, analyse and see the consequences of moderate politics. For we are constantly in this social pressure and that it is wage labour that everything should face up to. Earlier in the debate, Maria Nilsson – I do not know if she also requested a reply to me – spoke about how important it is to see that the studies have their own value. It is about education, and I also raised education and improvement in my speech. It is an important part of our discussion of studies: that we actually have to do so, so that we can increase the level of education and education throughout the country. Here, too, one can relate to the UN's global goals, where education is an important part. It is for many reasons, not just to meet the needs of the labour market. Of course, it is an incredibly important part of education, and it is very important that we meet the needs of the labour market. But I don't think that's the only thing, and I don't think we should focus on it. I also think that when you study you should focus on your studies, and we should enable the students to do so. We will create study environments, university environments and social environments so that students can focus on their studies. Here we also have an example of parties that want to increase the amount of the exemption in order to be able to work more. Today you can work about half-time, and if you do, you can't do your studies. It is an example of the bourgeois definition of the work line, which is harmful.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-115	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are very much in favour of an increased obligation for school authorities to ensure that there is a possibility of competence development in all the activities for which the principal is responsible. Skills development is necessary and must take place continuously within the school system. We are concerned about the lack of teachers, about the fact that not enough people choose to read to teachers and about too many leaving the teaching profession for something else. This may be one of the ways to change it. Skills development is incredibly important, and we really need to strengthen the opportunity for this. We also welcome initiatives involving the employment of people who will teach in Komvux and in Swedish for immigrants. It is also important to be able to get to a higher education degree or something similar in Swedish as a second language. We are very much in favour of that. We also agree with the possibility of making exceptions to the requirements for the identification and qualification of teachers who can teach the national recruitment courses on national programmes in upper secondary school. That is everything that we are in favour of. Madam President, I would like However, we are opposed to the government's proposal that extracts from the load register should no longer have to be handed over for a job at school. We consider this to be very remarkable and therefore call for the approval of reservation number 2. Children's safety needs to weigh more heavily than both the integrity of the adult and the additional administrative burden for staff when submitting their records. We think that this is extremely important and is something we emphasise. Unfortunately, in recent times we have seen several cases of abuse of pupils by school staff, which absolutely must not happen and should be avoided in every way possible. Staff have also been able to return to service after warning, and even though they have abused children, they have been able to switch to another school with the same principal, which is absolutely terrible. This has been due to the fact that, for legal reasons, information could not be transmitted. There are also cases where previously convicted of violent crimes against children have been able to come back and have started working at a new school, which we think is completely wrong. This must not happen again, and we must do everything we can to ensure that it is as safe as possible during children's school hours. We are therefore opposed to this proposal and, as I said, we are in favour of reservation number 2. There are of course several ways to create a secure school time, but one way is to request that register extracts be submitted. It is a clear and robust way in which there is a record extract to go back to if there is to be an investigation. This procedure should of course apply to both preschool, fritis, primary school, secondary school and special school. We are therefore in favour of reservation number 2.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-126	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for the gain of time we only ask for reservation 1. In this proposal, the Government proposes measures aimed mainly at increasing teacher competence. These include proposals on the obligation of principals to ensure that all staff are able to develop their skills and to extend exemptions from licence requirements. These are great proposals that involve a clear reinforcement that may be needed. The Government also proposes more temporary employment of people who will teach adult education in Swedish for immigrants, SFI, in a trial activity. We understand this need but argue that, with a wise policy based on requirements and expectations linked to SFI education, the proposed experimental activity could be superfluous. One should know that 73 per cent of all SFI teachers were qualified in the Swedish National Agency for Education's teachers' forecast for 2019. It is our firm belief that these teachers could cover the needs that exist in case access to SFI education would have a shorter time limit and contributions would be based on results and presence and not just presence. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there is a hairy proposal in this proposal, namely the proposal for lax handling of records when employed in the school system. With the government's proposal, it will be easier for paedophiles, for example, to seek services within the school system and jeopardise the safety of our children. For us Swedish democrats, it is completely incomprehensible that a majority in this House would rather protect the integrity of adults than the interests of our children. We strongly oppose the Government's proposal that extracts from the load register should be presented in the future only and that a simple note – a cross in a box – should suffice as proof that the record statement is blameless. In contrast to the government's proposal, family homes often need to submit annual extracts from the load register in unopened envelopes to prevent manipulation. Madam President, I would like Look at it this way: I'm showing you the excerpt from my record. The recipient looks at this as quickly as possible and writes a cross in the box but has not checked carefully and does not discover everything that stood there. Another variant might be: I say that I unfortunately forgot to include the extract this time and the recipient, whom I have known since then, doesn't care about this but still puts a cross in the box because I am a reliable person. I do not want to say that it will always be done in this way, but once is actually once too much, and there are quite a few thousand people who are hired. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, like the Swedish National Agency for Education, believe that a registered extract is of great importance for the school's safety work and that the children's perspective weighs most heavily on this issue. No one can well ignore the fact that the human factor opens up for cheating and personal judgment on an issue that may be of crucial importance to the welfare and woe of the individual student. There must, of course, be a well-documented history of follow-up in the event of any irregularity. The message of the Swedish democrats to the government is simply: Redo and do the right thing! The same applies to the other Members who have so far supported this insane proposal.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-137	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1 by the Christian Democrats and others. Some efforts to increase teacher skills are the title of the report. The proposals in the Government proposal are described as an initiative to increase access to competent teachers. I wish that was the whole truth. One of the proposals to clarify the responsibility of the principal for the development of skills and to counteract the lack of qualified teachers in the SFI is a completely different one: a proposal that reduces the safety and safety of our children. Anyone who wants to work in preschool or school must today, according to the school law, submit an extract from the register of records. This means great security for all parents who leave the most precious things in preschool each morning or who hug their children and say goodbye before a new day at school begins. Although the number of reported sexual offences against children has increased in recent years, the Red-Green Government is now proposing that anyone seeking employment in, for example, preschool and school should no longer have to leave a register extract. An extract shall be presented, but according to the Government, no documentation relating to the control, the register extract or its contents shall be allowed, other than a small note stating that an extract has been presented. Heavy consultation bodies have pointed out that this will impair the safety and safety of children. The Swedish National Agency for Education notes that the Government's proposal lacks a child perspective. Requesting the register extract is an important part of school security work. And the proposal would lead to considerable difficulties if there were to be grounds for believing that the control or the register extract has been fraudulent. The Ombudsman for Children has also expressed concern that the proposal impairs the safety of children, since extracts that are only presented will, of course, be easier to falsify. Nevertheless, the red-green government and the liberal support parties, the Liberals and the Center Party, are choosing to move forward with a proposal that loosens the protection of the very smallest of our society, the children. Madam President, I would like It is good that the provisions of the Education Act on mandatory register control should be extended to include upper secondary and secondary schools. However, the Christian Democrats want to go further and have therefore insisted that the rules of the School Act should also apply to drivers who drive school shootings. It had further reduced the risk of paedophiles and other formerly convicted sex offenders coming into contact with children on their way to or from school. On the other hand, it is completely irresponsible for the government to propose a new register control regime whereby the employer cannot take part in the register extract afterwards or ensure that the check has actually been carried out. The Christian Democrats are not prepared to risk our children. We are therefore voting against the Government's proposal that register extracts should no longer have to be transmitted. And it hurts that no more parties in the Riksdag than the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have been prepared to support the Christian Democrats in this. It's even shameful. Should it be so difficult to take a stand for the children? Surely the safety of children must outweigh the interest of officials in reducing the administrative burden? And surely the safety of schoolchildren must be more important than protecting the integrity of paedophiles and other criminals? For us Christian Democrats, that is the case. For us, it is therefore obvious that extracts from the load register will continue to be handed over when someone is applying for a job in preschool or school. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, Minister for Education Anna Ekström and the Social Democraticly led government prioritise differently, and it does not seem better than that the Liberals and the Center Party are prepared to support them in it. The right thing to do is to vote no.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-149	Madam President, I would like This report is about increasing teacher competence. I guess I've never experienced the husband of false marketing when it comes to proposals from a government to the Swedish parliament. This is the government bill, not the Liberals. Otherwise, it would not have looked like this when it came to Parliament. That is also why we have a reservation in the report, which I support, about the principal's responsibility for training the teaching staff. With regard to the lack of teachers and the increasing number of unauthorised teachers in Swedish schools, the liberals have repeatedly asked for measures to close the shortage of teachers, which is currently forecast to be 45 000 teachers by 2033. We have also called in our motion in the report for the government to initiate a national strategy to draw back what we call a gold reserve: the 37 000 trained, qualified and qualified teachers who, for various reasons, have left the profession, Madam President. If one is to say something positive here, it is nevertheless gratifying that six out of ten teachers are prepared to return to school, provided that the working environment is improved and that their conditions regarding resources, support and relief change. Here responsibility lies ultimately with the municipal authorities and free schools. In this government bill, which they have had at least three years to prepare, there is no shaking reform proposal in the sense of increasing teacher competence. On the contrary, the proposal is full of proposals for derogations and extension of transitional rules. This applies, among other things, to SFI activities. On the other hand, in the field of construction, only the School Act clarifies that a principal should also be responsible for providing the opportunity for skills development. However, before the government took a decision on this proposal in February, the Liberals announced the need to tackle the problem of the existence of qualified, applicant teachers for vacant posts who are expelled because of the exceptional possibilities and valves contained in the School Act. It is therefore possible to continue to employ and prioritise the hiring of unauthorised persons. To my disappointment, the Minister of Education said no to many of our proposals and demands. First of all, we want the School Inspectorate to have an increased mandate to intervene against schools with too large a proportion of unauthorized teachers. We want the school law to be tightened when it comes to one year's appointment, to work as an unauthorized person, as well as the exceptions and time rules. Madam President, I would like This bill had been an excellent opportunity for the government to tighten up the regulations, precisely to meet the approach, namely increased teacher competence. Nor have we seen any answers to our letters in the motion on a national strategy to attract back and retain teachers who have left the profession. This is a marginal change in terms of construction in a positive sense. As far as SFI activities are concerned, I understand that there are major problems in recruiting sufficient qualified and qualified staff to enable that activity to function. But on the whole, it is of course disappointing that the government has not made any further progress, even though they started investigating several of these things already in 2017.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-157	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats put welfare first. This applies not least to school. Investing in school is one of the smartest things we can do. It strengthens our society here and now. That is the prerequisite for our future. With an equal knowledge school, we build Sweden as a knowledge nation. We guarantee children's and students' right to learn as much as possible. We are creating growth and a foundation for tomorrow's strong society. That is why we prioritise raising knowledge results, building an equal school across the country and phasing out the market governance that has taken hold of Swedish schools. We have invested in strengthening schooling and safety, in more training places, in increased opportunities for lifelong learning, and not least in more staff at school and more qualified teachers. But it is undeniably the case that Swedish school and Swedish education continue to have great challenges. We need to increase equivalence, break segregation, tackle market thinking that creates growing gaps, increase the well-being and security of our children and students and address the serious shortage of teachers. In the report that we are debating today, Some efforts to increase teacher skills, the government proposes a number of measures that represent the right step in the right direction with a focus on safety for our children and students and on addressing the acute shortage of teachers. These concrete legislative proposals should of course be seen as complementary to the broader efforts and resource enhancements presented by the government in the field of education. First of all, I would like to highlight an important part of the report, which concerns the inclusion of persons working in upper secondary and secondary schools in compulsory checks on data in the police's registers on employment, a so-called register extract. Today's legislation exempts high school and secondary school from this register check, which is mandatory for the rest of the school system. For us Social Democrats, it is obvious that only suitable people should work around our children and students. That is why we chose to extend register checks to upper secondary school and secondary school. With the bill now on the table, we are tightening up the legislation so that students in high school will feel the same security. Any person who does not present a record extract may not be engaged, hired or received in the activity. At the same time, the bill must take into account important aspects of privacy. The proposal is that extracts of records should be presented and subsequently documented by the employer instead of being submitted. There is a great deal of pre-work behind this balance between restricting personal integrity and the risk of inappropriate people working with children and young people. That balance is crucial for us to be able to move forward with the mandatory register control including upper secondary school. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today also includes a number of important efforts to increase teacher skills. Among other things, clarifications are proposed in the School Act that principals, both individuals and public, are responsible for providing both permanent and fixed-term employees with financial and temporal prerequisites for competence development. It concerns both the right of the staff to development and the right of students to education of high and equal quality. The report also proposes various measures to attract, retain and hire more teachers. The specific measures presented focus in particular on forms of teaching with a great shortage of teachers, including in national recruitment programmes and in primary and secondary schools. Another example of action is the proposal for more qualified teachers in SFI. Today, the general rule is that only those who have a licence as a teacher or pre-school teacher are entitled to teach. In a proposal for experimental activities, school principals shall be allowed to employ an unauthorized teacher within the SFI for up to two years if the person simultaneously studies a supplementary educational education and teaches and has special subject knowledge. For many years, the proportion of qualified and qualified teachers in SFIs has been far too low. This proposal provides more opportunities to teach and study at the same time. In the long run, this means that we will have more qualified teachers and improved quality in education. These initiatives will be important complements to the Government's efforts to create more pathways to the teacher's degree, such as the expansion of higher education places, more summer courses for faster eligibility, enhanced opportunities for competence development, the continuing education initiative Teacher's Lift and a number of state grants that are now in place to increase teachers' opportunities for supplementing competence. Madam President, I would like Swedish school system has once been at the top of world class. We're gonna get there again. We have a lot to be proud of, but we are far from satisfied. Step by step, the Social Democratic-led government ensures that we correct the shortage of teachers, raise the quality of teaching and build a school that is safe and equal for all children and students. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-171	Madam President, I would like The Member said in his speech that only suitable people should work in the school. I think we are in complete agreement there. I hope that the whole House will agree on this. But from that I do not understand – I hope the honourable Member can help me understand – why this relaxation of the register control is being done. The extract should no longer be submitted, so as to facilitate falsification and manipulation. Actually, that's what you do. I would like an answer to that question. Why are you doing this relaxation? You should only have to show your excerpt from the load register. It should not be received, and it should not be saved. Why?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-174	Madam President, I would like I note the unreasonably high language of both the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in the speaker's chair in this regard. Let me take this opportunity to explain. The bill that is on the table is actually a piece of legislation. It is a question of tough legislation. It is about moving forward and ensuring that secondary school pupils are able to feel the same security as the rest of the school system by extending register control to upper secondary and secondary school. Then Swedish democrats and Christian Democrats shout loudly that we must stop the bill. I think it is unreasonable, and I think it is a dishonest way of debating. What we have on the table is, as I said, a piece of legislation. In order to take into account aspects of privacy, extensive preparatory work has been done, which has struck the balance that it is sufficient to present the register statement without submitting it. After all, it is not the case that the fact that a register extract is in an archive and collects dust makes the security more secure. The most important thing is the safety of our children and students. This is a piece of law to include our high school students. Why can't the Swedish Democrats rejoice in that?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-179	Madam President, I would like I don't know how many times the honourable Member said it was a piece of law. But in my world it doesn't matter how many times you say one thing; it won't be a truth just for that. Absolutely, it is a good thing that the upper secondary level is included. That is great, and nobody here in this House has anything against it. We are very much in favour of this. That's great. At the same time, the system is relaxed. As I said, it becomes easier to cheat and manipulate when it is enough to show the record statement. Anyone who has ever entered the register and seen a record extract can understand that. It is so obvious that reality is something other than what the honourable Member is talking about here. The honourable Member is talking about a pure theory product. And the National Agency for Education, isn't it a competent institution? I believe that in many cases it is a competent institution, especially in this case. They are very sharp in their proposal – it is obvious that it should be documented and submitted, preferably unopened, of course. I can't believe you're trying to explain this off by saying the word a lot of times. It doesn't bite me, and I hope it doesn't bite anyone else either. Just because you repeat one thing over and over again doesn't make it true. I can mention, just as a parenthesis, that last week, according to the daily press in my town of Malmö, there was a case like this at a school. This came in the newspaper because the person who had committed a rape against a 12-year-old girl was prosecuted and had four years. There are quite a few questions at that school about what has been done. It has been going on for a year, and people have been told to keep an eye out for this person and so on. It takes some things to prevent such terrible crimes. This is part of it, and we're not going to loosen it.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-187	Madam President, I would like Inappropriate people should not work around our children and students – point. We are now moving forward with legislation that actually extends the scope of register control to include our high school pupils. Why don't you enjoy it? I still do not get an answer to this. Instead, the Swedish Democrats and parts of the Right choose to populistly conjure the issue away. I advise the Member of the Swedish Democrats to go back and read the bill. It shows that the important balance when it comes to including privacy aspects has been crucial for us to be able to extend the scope of register control. We have a deal. Inappropriate persons should not work around children. Today, the National Agency for Education does not go in and look through old records in archives. What the National Board of Education does instead is to review the principal's procedures for checks. It is an incredibly important piece of work that will remain. It is not just the case that register checks should be presented, but that they form the basis for the principal's employment of the person. It is incredibly important that the documentation is clear, documentation that the Swedish National Agency for Education can then follow up. We agree, it sounds like, if you take a stand for the good of the children and the students. So put populism aside, and welcome the bill!
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-192	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the report on our efforts to increase teacher skills. There are several suggestions raised. One is a clarification that involves the principal ensuring that staff in all the activities for which the principal is responsible are given the opportunity for competence development and have the necessary understanding of the regulations that apply specifically to the school system. It should also be possible to set up experiments with fixed-term employment for a maximum of three years by persons who will teach in municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants, SFI, while at the same time they will receive a higher education in Swedish as a second language or equivalent education. The possibility of working and studying in parallel is an issue that I know many people think is important, not least us in the Center Party, especially in an area such as SFI where competence needs to be increased. The report also deals with provisions on register control – that it should also be mandatory for secondary and secondary schools in order to increase the protection of more pupils in this way. Madam President, I would like The Government also proposes in the report that the period of validity of transitional provisions on exemptions from the requirement for a licence and eligibility to be able to teach and decide on grades in primary, special, secondary and municipal adult education should be extended until the end of June 2028. So it is a matter of specialist teachers, quite simply. This may be necessary in order to retain the skills of these school forms of teachers who have not yet completed a special teacher training programme for special education. However, I would like to point out that more measures are needed than those put forward today in order for more people to want to study to specialist teachers and acquire specialist teaching skills. This is absolutely essential for these forms of education. The lack of specialist teachers is significant and affects pupils in special education in particular. Becoming a qualified teacher in primary and secondary education is a bigger step than becoming a qualified teacher in other forms of education. There is first a need for teacher training and work experience and then specialization in teacher training. Efforts such as the Teacher Lift for more special teachers are laudable, but further efforts will be needed to get more qualified special teachers. Recently, a study was presented on students' opportunities to reach the knowledge requirements. It stated that it needed to be investigated how we could get more qualified teachers in primary and secondary schools. This is an issue that is important for the Center Party to move forward. Further action is needed for more specialist teachers, and this is an issue that we intend to come back to later.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-199	Madam President, I would like As you know, the Swedish school has a number of challenges that we need to tackle and solve. The lack of teachers is such a challenge. The equivalence – that all pupils should receive what they are entitled to, namely a high and equal level of education, across the country, in all forms of school and regardless of who is the principal of the school – is another such challenge. During the last parliamentary term, the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government started a great deal of work to strengthen the school, make it more equal and introduce guarantees that all students will learn the basic skills of reading, writing and counting. The status of teachers needs to be increased. We have gradually provided funds to increase wages and reduce administration. The working environment is also of great importance for us to have teachers who are happy at work and for many young people to want to invest in a career as teachers. This matter, Madam President, is about making certain efforts to increase the skills of our teachers. It is a government bill with a number of proposals in one package. I'll mention some of the parts. We may have heard them earlier in the debate, but I will take them anyway. Skills development is important. Further training, further training and knowledge-raising activities need to be carried out continuously throughout the career. The responsibility for this is now clarified so that each teacher has access to competence development and knowledge of the possibilities for competence development. The lack of teachers in general is a challenge in which we need to find several ways to achieve solutions. The very lack of qualified teachers in SFI may be particularly acute, and therefore the proposal proposes a trial in which we temporarily derogate from the eligibility requirements for future SFI teachers in order for them to be able to work in parallel with studies, complete their degree and obtain eligibility. In the roposition there is also a measure to meet the lack of teachers with specialist expertise in aesthetic education, such as singing and dancing. The government is authorised to make certain exceptions to the eligibility requirements in order to ensure that schools are of high quality in aesthetic education. Of course, every student and every child in our schools should be offered a school environment that is safe and secure. Therefore, the obligation to check all employees at school against the register is extended, so that it also applies to employees in upper secondary and upper secondary schools. Here I had no intention of saying anything more, but it was a very affected discussion earlier. Actually, I'm getting pretty upset. It is scary to hear the discussion that has been. We are in some kind of recession in terms of personal integrity. I remember when we discussed the FRA law a few years ago and the Pirate Party entered the European Parliament on these issues. Then personal integrity was important, but now I think it's just being swept away. Here we are talking about the school heads collecting and keeping extracts from the record. It's pretty potent and dangerous stuff that can be in the load register and that shouldn't come out. If they're dusting in an archive or a bookcase at the principal's office, what happens next? We know what happened to some grades. In private schools in particular, there have been cases where grades have just disappeared. You can't get your grades after the schools have closed down. That's not how it's supposed to be. I think safety is incredibly important. The control against the load registers must be carried out by the employee, whether the records are then placed in a bookshelf, in a safe or in an archive, but it is the control of the employment procedure that is important. I do not understand this debate at all. In addition to the things I have mentioned, a number of adjustments are made and some temporary derogations are extended. The proposal also mentions the major change to be made in education to become a teacher. There are no proposals in the bill here, but they come at a later date. The Ministry has sent out a memo with proposals for new teacher training. The referral has come in, and I'm sitting right now reading them. That matter will come. All in all, the proposal therefore contains a series of proposals to increase teacher competence and secure the provision of competent teachers to schools, even in subjects where there is a major shortage today. We will make schools even safer environments, including upper secondary schools and secondary schools. There are a number of proposals that the government is now putting forward and that Parliament will hopefully club tomorrow. They should be seen as part of a long chain of measures that the Red-Green Government has been working on since 2014 and that the government will definitely continue to work with. The students in our schools all over the country are worth it. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-216	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked the Minister for Labour if she intends to take initiatives to improve the working environment of professional drivers in connection with the ongoing climate debate. The work in the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. On 16 April, the Government submitted the Future Infrastructure Bill – sustainable investments throughout Sweden to the Riksdag. In the bill, the Government proposes a financial framework of SEK 876 billion. It provides the largest economic framework for infrastructure ever, both to take care of and develop existing infrastructure and to carry out new investments throughout the country. It will be an important part of the work for the climate change of the transport sector, increased competitiveness and improved conditions for both companies and professionals throughout the transport sector. I also agree with Sofia Westergren that the working environment and conditions of professional drivers are a very important issue. It is for this reason that the government has been a leader in the work both within the EU and nationally to create order and order on the roads. Last summer, a historic decision was taken when the mobility package was adopted, a reform package that will improve working conditions for professional drivers throughout the EU. In this work, the government, together with the Swedish trade union movement and haulage industry, have stood united. It is worth pointing out here that, when Sofia Westergren's party was last in government, nothing happened to strengthen the working conditions of professional drivers. On the contrary, the Moderates objected to the government's proposal to tighten the rules for posting, for example. The Moderates considered the government's proposal to be protectionist and inhibiting freedom of movement. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Council will continue to work on improving both road safety and the working environment on the country's roads. The number of road traffic fatalities shall be halved. In addition, the recently agreed work environment strategy reinforces the work for good working conditions. It is a policy that will improve the conditions for a good working environment and safety for professional drivers.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-222	Madam President, I would like The working environment of professional drivers is deteriorating. There are several things that affect this. Let me give you some examples. There are too few places to set up, and it gets worse because the places to set up are being converted into police control places. A lot of places are unfresh. I'd actually like to say that they're gross. The risk of robbery and assault is high. Truck drivers are one of the deadliest professions. In nine cases out of ten, the driver is not the cause of the accident, but the psychological damage can be permanent. I know, because I've been part of the conversational resource for these drivers. It is something called collegehjälpare and that SOS contacts if necessary. Then there are driving and rest rules that all too often raise the stress level of drivers. The rules are too square to work in a complex traffic environment. The roads are narrower and more crooked. Rounders are made too small for large transports to drive around. The road is saved on. Sometimes no road is built, or it is made narrower and perceived to be of lower quality. The road is important for traffic to flow. It can be used to let through the underlying vehicles and thus contribute to a calm traffic rhythm. Today, traffic density is high, and road users are stressed. It is always dangerous if behind motorists feel frustrated and choose to take unnecessary risks with overtaking. Cities and urban centres are increasingly building off traffic. The drivers who need to get in there feel stress. They are to squeeze into narrow streets with parked cars, and everywhere there are signs of a stop ban. Here in Stockholm, it was previously a single administrator who handled the cases. When a haulage company needed approval to stay on the street, it was a procedure that could take several days. Wasn't the case officer on site it took longer. For an industry with the customer in focus, it is an unreasonable time. This puts great pressure on the driver to solve problems that arise during the day, to make the customer happy. One difficulty with trucks is that there is a lot at the front wheel of the truck called the blind spot. What happens in that party does not see the driver, so cars that penetrate close to a truck become invisible. Now comes more of camera surveillance around trucks and TV monitors to secure this. I want to tell you about when I was a racer and one of my drivers moved a car in front of him several meters. The guy in the passenger car was upset but unharmed. The guy didn't realize he was invisible when he squeezed in in front of the truck. A few days later, the guy got to ride with the driver in the truck to experience the blind spot. The guy was actually shocked by the realization of the blind spot. I don't think he's gonna make such a tight file change again. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Eneroth, Minister for Infrastructure, if he sees that certain infrastructure changes, such as building up urban traffic, small roundabouts, economic roads without roads and so on, lead to a deterioration of the traffic situation and a deterioration of the working environment for professional drivers.
i-SZVJR8S7PDodBWVtNU3KoE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for a very important interpellation, which is about the working environment of professional drivers! Madam President, I would like It has very, very difficult consequences when you have an anti-car party in the government. The consequences we could see on TV4 this weekend. In an almost unique TV4 report, Trafikverket went out and concluded that the government's proposal for road maintenance was not even sufficient to maintain existing roads. I understand that the Minister for Infrastructure neither reads reports from the Swedish Transport Administration nor takes part in media in Gävleborg. But if he had, for example, been able to listen to P4 Gävleborg, who recently called: Gävleborg has the worst roads in the country. Let it sink in, Madam President! Madam President, I would like It is a county where we have a fantastic industry, where we have a fantastic forest industry. What are the consequences for the log car driver Viktor Lindblom, who is often driving on the roads in Gävleborg? He was interviewed in P4 Gävleborg, and he said: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I'd like to say, the driver gets hurt. The question you ask yourself is: how far does the government intend to let the lack of maintenance go? When will a safety stop be called for? Madam President, I would like It was a dangerous situation last winter in Gävleborg. It's completely lethal when it's lightning roads. People die along Sweden's roads because we do not make sure to have a road maintenance called good. It's actually shamefully bad. It is easy to think about the professional drivers who are truck drivers, as my colleague Sofia mentioned. But at least as important are all other professional drivers. I'm thinking about my friend Roger from Boden. He's a traveling salesman. He has a district, Madam President, where he travels from Kiruna in the north to Edsbyn in the south. He drives 5,000 to 6,000 miles a year along the E4 and other roads. Madam President, I would like I'm sure Rogers's daughter and family want Roger to come home alive every Friday. But the risk increases every day when the roads are so bad that the car can get a cord and when it is so slippery that you can't brake. It is not supposed to be like this in Sweden 2021: We have roads that are worse than those of former Eastern countries. It is roads that put professional drivers at risk of dying. That is not good enough, Madam President, when the Finnish Transport Administration went out this weekend and said: it is a sub-budget of 50 billion for maintenance. That's 50,000 million. And people risk dying. But of course it's not just about Roger from Boden. Of course, it is not just about the professional driver who drives a truck. I'm thinking about the home help staff. I'm thinking about the ambulance driver. I am thinking of the police car in Hälsingland, where the police officer is in danger of dying because the government is cutting back on road maintenance.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-243	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that concerns me. That is why I have been involved in the interpellation debate. This is about the working environment of professional drivers. Last winter a recognised good driver died in a traffic accident. He drifted off the road. When the truck went down the ditch edge-- it was a pretty high edge-- the cab got squeezed. And with full load, it had dramatic consequences. Did he drive too fast? Did he behave badly? Or what caused the accident? Well, it was a lack of road maintenance that caused the whole ride to go off the road. And as a result, the driver died. It is just as Sofia said before: Professional driver is a risk occupation. Some ten professional drivers die a year in road accidents. It varies from year to year, but it's there somewhere if you look over time. The roads are bad. They're fabulously bad in places. And everyone who has driven heavy vehicles knows what it means to sit behind the steering wheel when it's foaming and you don't really know if it's carrying and if the road is holding. After all, it happens from time to time that the roadside breaks and that the cars end up in the ditch. At best, it will only be material damage. At worst, it is people who are injured or even deceased. Sofia mentioned a lot of what she experienced as a racer during the time she was active there. I'm going to bring up something else, and it has to do with bus traffic. Bus drivers are also a category of professional drivers. They are also responsible for their passengers. On average, a bus has 10 travelers, but it can be up to 50 travelers. The driver, who sits behind the wheel, is responsible for ensuring that the passengers arrive safely and safely. But it's getting harder and harder. I have a former brother-in-law who I sat and talked to a lot last winter because of the poor road maintenance. It was about wintertime and how difficult it has become. He's been driving a bus since the mid-70s. It has become difficult in recent years to drive safely and safely, because the roads do not meet the standards that can reasonably be demanded. Now we are not just talking about the safety of the professional driver, but now we are also talking about the safety of passengers, those on the bus.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-250	In connection with the fatal accident last winter, a group was formed on Facebook called: The road is our workplace! ! ! There you could see drivers riding on the shoes on the road, because it was covered with ice. I can assure the Government that one of the worst things you can get into is when you don't get up on a hill and when the hot wheels melt the ice that's under there and it carries off backwards. I've had it on two occasions myself. Fortunately, I ended up putting the rear end in a snowstrip. It didn't get any worse than that. But I have a relative who went off the road backwards and scrapped the whole combination. After all, he did well in that accident, but it could have ended just like that.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-251	Madam President, I would like It is excellent that we have a discussion in Parliament about the working environment of professional drivers. This is an issue that is not just a matter of concern to the Minister for Employment or to me, but to the whole government. When I talk to drivers, they usually say that what they find most difficult is the time pressure. It is the knowledge that it is very tight about time, that you have to deliver and that their hauliers are pressured by the fact that their competitors have lower wages, lower working conditions and do not invest in vehicles that meet the climate requirements. They suffer unscrupulous competition, and then you get stressed into driving faster and faster. The Finnish Transport Agency's and the Swedish Transport Agency's investigations also show that professional drivers are driving faster and faster because working conditions are such. So this is not about road quality, but about the fact that the lack of control of professional traffic has been a fact for a long time. That's what happened when the Moderates ruled this country. Not a single effort was made to limit the unfair competition in the transport sector. Only after the 2014 election did we get classing, ordering responsibility, fines and, speaking of what Thomas Morell mentions, winter tyre requirements on vehicles. Such requirements did not exist in the past for all tyres on the trucks, and this could not least be used by foreign trucks with lower costs and pressured prices. Furthermore, the mobility package is now in place. The Swedish Government has run it in the EU, and that means that we have got European rules. That is what regulates the working conditions of professional drivers in Europe, which means that secondment from day one applies. That is why in the interpellation response I choose to quote how the Moderates have handled it and that they think it is protectionist. My question to Sofia Westergren and Lars Beckman should therefore be: Do you still think it is protectionism to make demands for posting from day one? Do you think it's okay with dumped wages in the Swedish labour market? Should Swedish professional drivers be forced to compete with people who have poor, low wages and poor working conditions? Do you think it is okay for Swedish hauliers to have to face competition from Eastern European or Baltic hauliers who do not comply with the conditions that should apply, because you have opposed the Posting of Workers Act and the rules that now exist and call it protectionism? Like I said, the professional drivers I'm talking to are talking about stress and the press. Of course, in order to take the second part of the question, Madam President, it is always important that we have good quality on our roads. Then it is that the Swedish Transport Administration has never had as much resources for road maintenance as now. After years of underinvestment, when not least a moderate government chose to prioritise tax cuts instead of investing in infrastructure, we have now chosen to spend more resources than ever on improving road standards. Sure, it will take time to make sure that the standard is really good everywhere. It takes time, because Lars Beckman and his party during the time he was in parliament and we had a moderate government chose to prioritise tax cuts instead of road maintenance. Now we have a system where we are slowly but surely trying to strengthen the quality of the Swedish road network. But it's tough, because it's heavily burdened. Therein lies another part of the solution: let us make sure that more of the goods can pass by rail so that, instead of having heavily charged roads, we can transport more goods by rail! This applies, for example, to road 40 between Gothenburg and Borås. It would be better to invest in the railway and get a new railway route between Gothenburg and Borås. But even there, the Moderates say no. So the question is: How do you get the calculation together? Is it reasonable, to take the basic issue, that we should have dumped wages in the Swedish labour market?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-261	Madam President, I would like The government calls itself feminist. I want to contribute with an insight into what it's like for female truck drivers. When I was a professional, I drove almost exclusively to gas stations to deliver petrol and diesel. Then I could use the customer toilets. Today it is different in several ways. I hear that today there is no other choice than a toilet roll in the forest, because rest areas are missing or too sloppy. The driver who delivers bulk that dusts on delivery tells how he solves his daily shower needs by having a five-litre can standing on the passenger side. He puts on his swim trunks and hits the dunk over his head standing in a parking lot somewhere in Sweden. He simply showers like that. The same driver says it is cold in Umeå in the winter when the procedure is done. During the pandemic service points have closed at 20.00 or 20.30, and the municipalities have closed their toilets completely because of covid-19. Drivers tell me that because of the pandemic they are no longer allowed to use the customer toilets as they have previously done and as I did during my time as a professional driver. Drivers also wonder if the restaurants by the road will ever have night-open again. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has left out a whole occupational group, and this affects their working environment properly. More hauliers want to hire women, but what has happened during the pandemic is that drivers' work environment has deteriorated. Worst of all, it's for female drivers. Combined with the increased shortage of parking places, this leads to a deterioration of the working environment and increased stress for professional drivers. Set-ups are part of the infrastructure and therefore a state responsibility. The regulatory framework for the trans-European networks also provides for regular rest areas for trucks. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister of Infrastructure believe that Sweden complies with the regulations regarding scaffolding sites? I would like to ask the Minister how this has happened for a time when the government calls itself feminist. I am referring to what I mentioned in my first speech.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-268	Madam President, I would like If you put a party that strongly dislikes mobility, roads and infrastructure in a government then you get the government and the road maintenance that we now have in Sweden. This is a headline at SVT Gävleborg: The text continues further down: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We must almost let that sink in: 25% of the roads are very bad. What, then, are the consequences of government policy? Well, just what this interpellation is about, namely that people are at risk of dying after our paths. Professional drivers, nurses, police, emergency services, sellers, electricians, plumbers – lots of people depend on cars as well as light and heavy trucks. It will take a long time to re-establish the Swedish road network after the experiment of letting the Green Party control Sweden's road maintenance. It is telling that the Minister spends three minutes talking about anything other than what the interpellation is about. It can be so simple that the Minister is ashamed, Madam President. It can be so simple that the Minister does not want to talk about government policy, that as a social democrat he tries to cover up the Green Party's hatred for mobility and road maintenance. It can be that simple, Madam President. I don't know. I guess the minister'll have to answer that.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Just as Lars Beckman did here at the end, I can see that there were no answers whatsoever to what the interpellation was about. Instead, there were a lot of other things, including the mobility package. It has nothing to do with our bad ways. Then, as usual, the customer responsibility comes up in response to a question. The customer responsibility ended up in the ditch 14 days ago – I know that the Government has been informed about – because it does not work. There have been many of us who have been criticising it for a long time. What needs to be done out there is to make sure that road maintenance works. The Government's answer to this is that we should lift more goods from road to rail. I can agree with that, where possible. But you have to be clear that nine out of ten transports take place on a truck, and there's a reason for that. Either goods cannot be transported by rail, or there is simply no railway to run on. That can also be an answer. However, whatever the case, the truck must be at the beginning or end of a transport operation, regardless of whether the transport is carried by rail. Therefore, the transfer of transport by rail is not a response to the question of the lack of maintenance on the roads. Nevertheless, it is not going to be food or clothing for our citizens in the country if the truck stops. The truck has an incredibly important function to support both industry and individuals in their daily lives. We now need to increase road maintenance, both summer and winter, so that we can safely transport ourselves and the goods that have to go.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-279	Madam President, I would like I find it remarkable when Thomas Morell, as a Member, believes that the mobility package has nothing to do with the conditions in the Swedish transport market. This debate is about the working conditions of professional drivers, and what I am talking about is what Emma Brodin in the network of female professional drivers in the Transport Workers' Union tells me. These include the pressure on working life – the pressure on time and the competition from those who do not have contractual wages or decent working conditions. I find it symptomatic that Moderates and Swedish democrats do not answer a single question about postings or about the terms and conditions of the salaries of those working in the Swedish labour market in the transport sector – what was previously called protectionism – when we have finally pushed through a regulatory framework that makes it possible to protect the working conditions of those working in the Swedish labour market. I note that there is no sound about the employer's responsibility for the employees in the transport industry. The report referred to by Lars Beckman – which, incidentally, does not say that Gävleborg alone has the worst roads, but I think it is about five or six different counties that have the worst roads in all contexts – was developed by the Transport companies. It is an industry and employer organisation that wants to focus on the quality of the roads, which is perfectly legitimate and right. However, I would like to see Lars Beckman, or for that matter representatives of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, reflect on the employer's responsibility for the working environment that the employees have. If we are now having an interpellation debate on the working conditions of drivers, it should be able to deal with their salaries and contractual conditions, their working situation and the stress of working life. In transport policy, we regulate a lot of this, not least with posting. If we are to have any credibility in this debate, I think it is important to raise the issue of what is really pressing. Then, of course, as I have said before, we are spending more resources than ever on both road maintenance and on ensuring the quality of Swedish infrastructure. It's necessary. After years of underinvestment, it is absolutely necessary. But it is clear that Swedish haulage industry and those working in the transport industry are under pressure. In an export-dependent industrial country like Sweden, transport is a fairly large cost, and there is a strong cost pressure. Some Swedish companies instead choose to use foreign contracting companies to do this. In the past, it has been possible to do so through dumped wages and too low costs. I don't think that's reasonable. I think that road hauliers in Sweden who follow the collective agreement, who invest in vehicles that are supposed to meet the climate requirements and who want to do a good job should not face unfair competition. They should be able to know that also foreign companies that drive in Sweden are obliged to comply not least with the rules on posting. Now you get the chance one more time, Sofia Westergren! Can you say anything about whether you still think the posting rules are protectionism? Is it wrong to make demands on what conditions a large part of the truck traffic carried out in Sweden should have? Those are my questions.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-286	Madam President, I would like As an employer of my drivers in the past, I thought it was important that they had contractual wages, so the answer to that question is a resounding yes. I would like to return to the Minister for Infrastructure if, Madam President. But with my eight and a half years in Sweden's Åkeri company Västra Götaland's board, I have clear thoughts about cabotage rules and other things. I really want our drivers to have a better competitive position vis-à-vis foreign hauliers and drivers. The driving and rest time rules are square in a complex traffic environment. We should be able to do more there. It is the professional drivers who pay the price, and it is their working environment that takes the beating. I want to tell you about a former colleague, Mathias Karlman, who made a trip he made many times: from Sälen home to Stenungsund, where both me and Mathias live. So he's a colleague, so it's nothing more than that. It was Friday, and he'd been out all week. At home, his wife and three children were waiting for Dad to come home for dinner. Because of mountain travelers and road work, time went faster than the mile, and working hours ended in Trestadscenter – only a few miles from home. So there was another night in the cabin, and he came home only on Saturday. It would reduce stress and significantly improve the working environment if we could work to make driving and rest time rules more flexible.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-289	Madam President, I would like I look forward to receiving an answer on how the Moderates view the issue of posting, because now it is a very sharp situation. We have negotiated new rules and a new mobility package at European level, and there were no negotiations before. However, under a Social Democratic-led government, we have obtained a unique agreement within the European Union that allows us now to make demands on what conditions should apply in the transport sector. The agreement means that posting shall be valid from day one for combined traffic on the road part but also for cabotage traffic. This means that there will be completely different conditions to make demands precisely on what conditions foreign drivers have in Sweden. The point is to prevent us from exploiting people in the Swedish labour market. That's one part, and it's obvious. But the second point is that Swedish hauliers should meet with a fair competitive situation so that we do not have a situation where they are forced to compete with those who have perhaps half the salary of a Swedish professional driver. I believe that more than ever we need to work together to strengthen the status of those working in the transport sector, because we will need more people to go there. We will need more people looking for a transport sector that faces major challenges in the transition, and not least we will need more women in the transport sector. I usually say that 2% of maritime workers are women and that it is 7% in aviation. Among truck drivers, I think 11% are women. It is not acceptable for the industry to say that it is difficult to cope with the supply of skills if one looks unilaterally among men. If we are to get more people to seek out the transport sector, we must meet the conditions. It is about posting and about salaries and contract terms – but also about the working environment and good conditions for having, not least, working rest places. The Finnish Transport Agency works intensively with this, together with the industry.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-293	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure that the Swedish Transport Agency supervises the inspection industry. Inspection activities are an important public service that must work if we are to have road-safe and environmentally friendly vehicles on our roads. The Government has received the Swedish National Audit Office's report and will now analyse it and return to the Riksdag with the Government's conclusions and comments. With regard to supervision, the inspection company is currently required to be accredited by the Swedish Board of Accreditation and Technical Control, Swedac, in order for it to establish itself within the vehicle inspection market. Swedac reviews, approves and monitors that the inspection companies have the skills and procedures required, but also that they are independent and, for example, do not sell or repair cars to their customers. Furthermore, the inspection techniques that carry out the inspections must be certified by an accredited certification body for the task. In other words, it is both Swedac and the Swedish Transport Agency that supervises the operators that are established on the market. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out the review in view of the fact that the moderate-led government decided in 2010 to re-regulated the inspection market. The evaluation raises the question of whether it is appropriate to transfer essential public services to market solutions in terms of price development, accessibility across the country and the scope of government control and market supervision. Generally speaking, the price of inspection has increased by 56 per cent since 2010. During the same period, the consumer price index has increased by only 10 per cent.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-297	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is of the utmost importance that the vehicles on our roads work. When you have inspected your vehicle, you live in the belief that it is in safe driving condition. It is therefore extremely important that the person carrying out the checks should do so properly. Now it has been a few years since I made checks on the road, but not so long ago I talked to a person who found that a vehicle was banned shortly after it had undergone an annual inspection. On several occasions, I myself stopped a vehicle that was banned even though it had been inspected only a few hours earlier. That must not be the case. When a vehicle on the road is subject to a driving ban, this is because there is a technical deficiency that is so serious that the vehicle is at risk of breakdown. If there are brakes or towing devices on a heavy vehicle, everyone understands the consequences. What caused me to react in the report is that there is no supervision of those who have the task of carrying out the inspections, that is, the Swedish Transport Agency. The report also states that the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the Government has been informed of the reduction in supervision work through the annual market reports, but still has not managed the Swedish Transport Agency to work effectively in the area. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office thus notes that the Government has not done enough to exercise supervision and thus ensure that the inspection of the vehicles is carried out in a good manner. There has since been a 56% increase in prices. The consumer price index is 10 per cent. The increase in post-controls has been 37%. This can probably be explained by investing in both premises and equipment. There are more players at least on the bottom of the Dalälven river. Above Dalälven it's a little leaner. What I am reacting to, and what caused me to write the interpellation, is that the government knows that there has not been supervision of the business but has not taken action. I would like answers from the Government.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-305	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my reply that both Swedac and the Swedish Transport Agency exercise control. However, I am naturally concerned about developments in the inspection industry with price increases of almost 60%. Not long ago, I called representatives of the inspection industry because there are a number of locations in northern Sweden where the business is to be phased out. Some would get up to 200 miles [130 km] to get to the nearest inspection station. My comment in the media in this context was that if it turns out that the industry cannot take responsibility for ensuring important public services throughout the country, we must regulate and ensure the service throughout the country. Consider my surprise when I note that the Swedish Democrats, Thomas Morell's party, want to go another way. You exercise in Parliament and say that the liberalisation of car testing has been a success. According to the Swedish Democrats, it is therefore a successful reform when the cost increases have been 60 per cent and when development risks impairing services in sparsely populated areas or in rural areas. In addition, the Swedish Democrats in the motion propose that the state ownership of the car test be phased out. You do not even want to keep the Swedish car test, a state actor, but completely hand over the test to only private operators, because, according to the exercise, competition in the vast majority of cases is a healthy feature of the market. If this means a development in which prices increase sharply and people in sparsely populated areas have reduced access to public services, Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats obviously think that this is a successful path. Will inspection possibilities throughout the country and the quality of inspections be increased by further privatising and liberalising the inspection industry? We have noted in other countries, such as Finland, where this was done back in time, that people have had to start regulating again. I am concerned that we are risking such a development, and that is why I have called the industry for me. I do not rule out the possibility of getting into a situation where we need to regulate more. It is important that Swedac has a well-functioning control and that the Swedish Transport Agency also controls, but basically we have to ask ourselves whether it is a reasonable order that the responsibility for ensuring such a basic public service as inspection, road safety of our vehicles, should be the sole responsibility of a state authority to check that it is done in the right way. I think it is important that we evaluate and look at the impact of the rescheduling of the inspection industry that took place. I note that the Swedish Democrats and Thomas Morell want the line pursued by the Moderates in the Swedish Parliament 2010 to continue, i.e. to privatise and liberalise and not to ensure that public services are available throughout the country. I think this is an unfortunate development.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-311	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It would be good if the Government read the whole exercise, or at least was so honest that he told us what the motion says. We note that the great advantage is that the queues have disappeared. When the tasting was completely state-owned, one could wait a whole summer season to inspect their motorcycle or caravan, which is completely unreasonable. That problem has disappeared. That is the advantage of the business today. However, it is quite clear that there is a lack of supervision and therefore quality has not been ensured. Let's look at what the report from the Swedish National Audit Office says: In 2011, the Swedish Transport Agency had 5.5 annual workforces working with supervision, including 4 supervisors, 1 analyst and 0.5 administrators. The number of annual workers has gradually decreased since then. In 2020, the last supervisory officer working on samples ended and the Swedish Transport Agency therefore lacks staff to carry out the administrative and physical samples. This does not ensure that the inspections work properly. Swedac has a different role. They shall conduct vandelstest of those who are to carry out the activity, but shall supervise how it works at the inspection station itself. A former colleague of mine at the police department has carried out these checks. He's not working today. He's retired. That work is extremely important to ensure that the inspection is carried out in such a way that when the car rolls out of the hall, it is in the condition stated on the paper that the car is. If it says that the vehicle is approved for inspection, the brakes shall work. The pulling device shall be in such a condition that it is possible to hang a trailer behind, and the steering joint shall not fail. This is where you have to ensure that it works; if it is a government or a private player who does the job is uninteresting. If vehicles out of the hall are in such a bad condition that the police can only a few hours later put a ban on them, it doesn't work – it's that simple. There is every reason to look at this. I will sit down on the basis of this particular report and see what we can do to ensure that it works. If it's private or government business in the future, we'll see. However, we must ensure that when you go in and pay a large amount of money to get the vehicle checked is safe in that the vehicle is approved when it says it is. This must be seen through a government authority that ensures that inspection bodies do the job they are supposed to do. If we let it go, it will be as bad as it is on the roads; it will be a wild west.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-319	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell says we'll see if it's going to be private or government business. Obviously this is not the case – in the motion put on the table by the Swedish Democrats, it is proposed that the last state part of the business be sold out as well. You want to privatize even more. You think this is a successful reform. It would be interesting – Thomas Morell still has time to comment further – to hear the arguments of the Swedish democrats that more private ownership and further liberalisation of the inspection industry would mean better inspection controls. In any case, price increases have been remarkable. I think it's great that the National Audit Office is doing this review, and I welcome it. We, of course, intend to analyse it from the government's side and respond to the Riksdag. It is important that we have a well-functioning control both from Swedac's side and from the Swedish Transport Agency, because road safety is important. If nothing else, for example, we have recently manifested this by stopping and criminalising manipulation of metering positions in order to ensure that you know what applies when you buy a vehicle and that you know the quality criteria. The inspection industry has also had a strong commitment here. I think it is incredibly important that we realise that the vehicles that roll on Swedish roads must be safe. There we as customers and consumers have a responsibility when we buy the car; this information should be correct. But then vehicles must also be inspected. This shall be done by persons who have good habits, who are checked and who are certified. This control must be in place throughout the country. That is why I am concerned when we see that the service is actually deteriorating in parts of the country. Even in the context of the liberalisation of the pharmacy market, there has become a plethora of companies that want to see opportunities to develop new markets in metropolitan areas and certainly also to make money from this, because that is how market mechanisms work. But responsibility must be taken for the fact that this public service also exists in sparsely populated areas and throughout the country. At the moment there is a clear risk that we will have a reduced possibility of service in parts of the country. There, the inspection industry must take responsibility – otherwise we will have to regulate it. In the light of the Swedish Democrats' exercise in this, I am naturally curious as to why Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats think it is important to further privatise the inspection industry. I think it is important that we strengthen the safety and control of vehicles.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can say this: it is completely uninteresting if the eye that looks at a vehicle is government-employed or comes from the private sector. The eye must see whether the vehicle meets the requirements of the control programme; whether the assessment is made by the State or by a private company. It must fall into a failure if the requirements are not met. It's as simple as that. Anyone who makes the inspection must make a remark if it is a mistake– if it is then the state or a private company is not interesting. This report has come now on the spring page, and of course we also read it – it would be strange otherwise. But I note that the government has been slow in this, too. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment, the Swedish Transport Agency does not fulfil its supervisory responsibilities over the inspection industry. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the Government has been informed of the declining supervisory work through the annual market reports, but still has not managed the Swedish Transport Agency to work effectively in the area. ..................................................... This is what the Swedish National Audit Office's report says, and I react to that. It is quite clear that the inspection bodies must function and do the job they should do to ensure that the cars on the road meet the requirements. But here the government has not fulfilled its part.
i-DRqTqRu5JD3oAtXUaARs5F	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the debate. I think it is important that we now review the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The Government should respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's claims and their review and comment on this also to the Riksdag. Then we will all have reason to properly review what has happened in the inspection industry. If this were to cause the Swedish Democrats to change their minds, I would welcome it, because I do not believe that further liberalisation and privatisation are the solution to improving inspection activities. On the other hand, I think it is important that we conduct a proper social debate on what is the responsibility of the state for fundamental, important social functions. That is what I think should be important in this context. Let us come back and perhaps have a joint discussion and debate in this House when the government has responded to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Then there are all the possibilities to write motions in the Riksdag or change your mind, if you want to. In addition, there are, of course, opportunities to jointly see what can be done to strengthen confidence in the inspection industry and, above all, to ensure that we get better control of the vehicles.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-334	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me about Bromma airport. The Coronapandemia has brought a sharp decrease in air travel, but already in 2018 there was a trend break where domestic aviation began to decrease while we saw a major societal debate about the climate impact of aviation. A large part of the traffic at Bromma airport is domestic traffic, and it is doubtful whether the volumes of domestic traffic will be the same as before. There are several reasons for this. One important reason is the increase in digitalisation, which means that the need for business travel can also be reduced for aviation. This is clear, not least in view of the development of telework during the pandemic. The Government has appointed an investigator to analyse and report how the operation of the operations at Bromma airport can be formally phased out. This involves, among other things, describing the legal and economic conditions and consequences of the closure of the airport. The investigator also has the task of describing and reporting measures to ensure the necessary capacity at Arlanda Airport in the event of a winding-up of the business. The assignment shall be presented no later than 31 August 2021. Swedavia AB has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma airport from the company's mission and business perspective. According to Swedavia's assessment, under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. Swedavia further assesses that air traffic in Stockholm should instead be concentrated in Arlanda Airport. Their assessment is that this best safeguards both competitiveness and accessibility. The export credit committee has the Government's mission to promote Swedish exports and the internationalisation of Swedish companies. This is done by the Export Credit Board by charging a premium to insure exporting companies and banks against the risk of not getting paid for goods and services sold by them. The Export Credit Board does not provide loans to companies or banks. Furthermore, the activities of the Export Credit Board are not related to any decision on the Swedish airport structure.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But the last sentence was not really necessary. Anyone understands that the Export Credit Board is not involved in decisions on the Swedish airport structure. That's what the name says. What I'm reacting to is the government talking about closing Bromma down and one of the reasons being the environment. We're not flying, says the government with the Minister of Infrastructure at the head and Bolund at the side. That's one thing. The second is that it is said that aviation will not be the same as before the pandemic. But none of us really know. I still choose to look forward, because I believe in a life after the pandemic and that society will somehow restart. Then there is every opportunity to do it in a good way. Bromma has every opportunity to become a climate-smart airport. On the one hand, you can operate the airport itself climate neutral, and on the other hand you can develop the electric flight there. In the midst of this debate, it comes up that the Export Credit Board wants to lend money to Vietnam to expand its aviation infrastructure. Then the government comes with two messages. One is that we should close an important part of our own infrastructure in Sweden, where Bromma has a central role, with the motive that flying is harmful. The second is that the Swedish state is prepared to lend money, 1.8 billion, to Vietnam to expand its aviation infrastructure. These are messages that clash with each other. I do not really understand how to reason within the government. The whole debate is getting very weird. Then it's not quite easy to move straight off the flight from Bromma to Arlanda, and that's what everyone who has the slightest insight into how flights work. The Government also says in its reply that a large part of the traffic at Bromma airport is domestic traffic, and that is true. The BRA has been down, but they started their flights last week, I think it was, with three machines. It is true that a large part of the traffic at Bromma airport consists of domestic traffic. However, the answer does not cover all other traffic on Bromma: ambulance flights, other community-critical aviation activities and police. There is a company out there that serves all ambulance flights in Sweden and Norway. The company also has a measuring equipment in aircraft machines that measures instrument landing systems at airports. That business belongs at Bromma, and it is not just packing in a bag and moving out to Arlanda. If you are going to make these decisions, you have to do it in the right order. The reasoning must follow some kind of logic, so that one does not say one moment that if we burn kerosene in Sweden it is harmful to the environment and at the same time lend money to another country on the other side of the world that can then expand its aviation infrastructure. Apparently, it's not that bad. I can't get that logic together. I'd be happy to let the government explain this.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-347	Madam President, I would like The confusion that the Swedish democrats make in this context of EKN's operations, which are once again not loans but export promotion activities, and the Swedish airport structure is very strange. In fact, in Sweden, if we stick to the discussion about Bromma, it is not about the fact that it is harmful to fly or what argument Mr Morell argues, but the starting point is that both Bromma and Arlanda obviously need to be well-functioning airports. And both have been empty for a long time. The investigation into Bromma's development was set up long before the pandemic to look at what Bromma's future should look like. There was also the Arlanda Council's process to determine the conditions for strengthening Arlanda's role as a national hub for Swedish aviation. As has been said in debates in this House on several occasions, Sweden is a small export-dependent industrial country. We are dependent on having well-functioning contacts with the outside world. As it is now, Arlanda has great concerns about competing with international direct flights to and from Copenhagen and other international airports, because the base is too small. One of the reasons why several assessors see the possibility of moving domestic flights to Arlanda is that those who fly from different parts of the country should not have to take a taxi from Bromma to Arlanda but be able to change directly at Arlanda. We get a national hub that gets better functioning. Everyone will also have access to an international exchange of travel opportunities, and the basis for competing if international direct links increase. That is how Swedavia thinks when they talk about that from the competitiveness and accessibility point of view, it would be better to gather air operations at Arlanda instead of, as it is now, standing with overcapacity in the Stockholm region. But, of course, this is not something that is done in a hurry. That is one of the reasons why the government announced that we would set up an investigation, and we have now done so. The investigator will look not least at what Mr Morell now chooses to highlight, namely the fire aircraft, the ambulance flight and other socially important flights. Closure of an airport may take a long time. The basis to be developed is about socially important flights, domestic flights and how we secure the capacity at Arlanda. It is therefore about castles and other things, so that it becomes good accessibility. But it is also about such complex things as the remediation responsibility for the place where Bromma airport is located should the decision be to close it. It is not the government that puts Bromma down in such a situation. The government has the opportunity to decide what should be included in the national base supply. Then it is Swedavia who then decides if you want to phase out the operation. There's still a little bit to go. What is happening now is that we will get a proper basis for decision-making in order to be able to decide on future developments. I think it would be good if Parliament's parties in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, before deciding and, of course, talking about how to look at developments, listening to the investigation set up by the government, base their positions on facts rather than speculation and see what the various actors in aviation and many others see, namely the need to secure capacity at Arlanda and thus ensure a better chance of getting a functioning national hub for not least domestic aviation.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I just want to make it clear first that I have no problem with Swedish companies being involved in supplying equipment to Vietnam and their airport. That's great. If we can sell Swedish high technology to other countries, it's great. It strengthens Sweden as an export nation and as a technology-tight country. But what I am reacting to is the argumentation, the cake-eating and one or two things that the government parties are engaged in. It won't be serious. What, then, are we discussing? What is the air traffic at Bromma, and what is the air traffic at Arlanda? You can look at what it technically is for something to start and land. A Boeing 737-800 has a starting weight of max 78 999 kg, 79 tons, to be up in the air. An Airbus A320 has a starting weight of up to 73,500 kg. And what the BRA flies with is ATR 72-600, a considerably smaller machine with a starting weight of max 22 800 kg. Anyone who knows the slightest bit about air traffic knows what wake turbulence is. The big, heavy machines create a turbulence when they start and land that makes you have to separate the flights quite a lot. If you are to have a machine that weighs only 23 tons in an area where a large machine has just started, you have to wait. This means that it is not so easy to move traffic from Bromma to Arlanda, but you have to rebuild so that you can separate this type of aircraft. In addition, if we get electric flights, which take 19 passengers, we have machines that weigh considerably less than 23 tonnes, which creates even greater concern if we are to involve them in heavy traffic. If you add the 1,000 medical transfers to Bromma, five a day on weekdays, with patients going to specialist medical care, you realize that this is not done in a quick turn. In this context, decisions must be put in the right order so that a decision-making basis can be provided which also works in technical terms when it comes to air traffic management. It'll be a little too much, we'll count so, we'll do it this way and then we'll eat some cake from time to time, and it'll be fine. It's not serious. In the midst of all this, there will also be a promise to lend money to other countries that will develop their air traffic. Here you have to think a little bit about how to get a good solution for Brommaflygnet in the future. I am well aware that Bromma's air traffic can be transferred to Arlanda, but then Arlanda must be adapted to it and to all the aircraft types that are going up and down in that business. It's not working right now.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-362	Madam President, I would like I think it is still appropriate to remind you that the company responsible for air operations, Swedavia, believes that it would be possible and appropriate to transfer the business from Bromma to Arlanda. With all due respect for the fact that Mr Morell has read into various technical specifications, I still believe that Swedavia, with the knowledge you have about the flight, is well versed in the conditions for moving air traffic from Bromma to Arlanda. For safety's sake, we have also set up an investigation to look at how the capacity is secured not least for domestic flights and socially important flights at Arlanda Airport so that we know the conditions. What distinguishes, speaking of making decisions in the right order, is that the Swedish Democrats, together with other parties, have already decided, without evidence and without facts on the table, that Bromma will continue to develop. They have done this without seeing the consequences of a position that could mean that Arlanda's competitiveness continues to weaken and that the possibility of getting international direct lines continues to decrease. The strongest growing airport that provides good access to international connections in our region is now Kastrup, Copenhagen Airport. That's one of the consequences. I see the conditions for flights to change, and it is necessary for Sweden and the world to do so. The government works for this in all the different contexts, in ICAO and in the EU. I am an avid advocate of both the reduction obligation for biofuels for aviation and, not least, the electrification of aviation. In addition, I think it is absolutely essential for many people to choose their flights again. The air cam debate we had long before the pandemic came out of a situation where many chose to opt out of the flight because it made too large a climate footprint. Unlike how some political parties take a stand, the aviation industry itself has said that it understands the signal and wants to change, and it has therefore developed a programme together with Fossil-free Sweden. The government also provides resources both for the use of biofuels and electric aircraft. Let me be careful when it comes to electric flights, because I note that there are thoughts and ideas about electric flights linked to Bromma. Electricity flights are currently relatively limited. There are some for four people, and I sincerely hope that the 19-person plan that Heart Aerospace wants to develop will become a reality. However, this segment represents about 2 per cent of the Swedish domestic aviation market. It's not a big part of the flight. As an industrial project, it is incredibly important for Sweden, and I believe and hope that this can achieve export success if you develop the concept of electric aircraft with this capacity. But this is not the solution today or the next decade to the challenges of Swedish domestic aviation. This applies to larger machines. Rather, the solution is to find better logistics and coordination to ensure good accessibility throughout the country, and there is the opportunity and prerequisite to do so in a situation where we have an exemption regulation for castles based on the decisions taken in the EU. This is one of the reasons why we should also investigate the conditions. Let us try this instead of reflexively rejecting all social changes! I believe that Sweden needs well-functioning domestic flights. As Växjö I often flew to both Arlanda and Bromma, depending on the airline. I have to say that Arlanda worked well. The important thing was, as a Member of Parliament said, to come to the Stockholm area, not which parish they landed in.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-372	Madam President, I would like We are facing a rather big change in aviation, and that is something that everyone agrees on. The perspective is that the first 19-place machines should be up sometime during the second half of the 2020s. So it's going pretty fast. We also have the introduction of biofuels. So the flight is really on its toes when it comes to the conversion. However, we are talking about rather small electric aircraft. You cannot involve them in heavy traffic; there is no possibility in the world. Then you have to rebuild Arlanda, and you have to do that first, before you can move over. In the meantime, Bromma can develop into a test bench for electric aircraft, because then we can have an export market for this technology too. Nor must we forget that the air traffic at Bromma corresponds to about a quarter of those at Arlanda. So there's a lot going on. Whatever the case, I believe in life after the pandemic, because if we don't, we might as well lie down and thank you for the time that has been. When we have come through this misery that has been going on for 14 months, we have to believe that our society is starting up again, that we are getting industrial activity started and that people want to visit our nice places of interest in Norrland. Aviation plays an extremely important role in the development of our society. In addition, if we can do this in a climate-smart way with environmentally friendly air travel, that is even better. I don't understand the thing about squandering these possibilities just because of the principle that we shouldn't fly.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-377	Madam President, I would like Here we got a message, and that is that the Swedish Democrats think that the test centre for the development of electric flights should be located in the middle of Stockholm. Is it the message to Östersund, Skellefteå, Ängelholm, Kalmar and other places in the country that want to participate in the development of electric flights and have the conditions for it? Some places in the country are far ahead in terms of wanting to develop, not least, electric flights between Sweden and Norway. Here are interesting concepts at a number of smaller airports. But it is clear that the Swedish Democrats think that the test business should be located at an airport in the middle of Stockholm that is relatively large nationally and expensive in operation. However, I am not sure that this is the very best way to support the development of electric aircraft. It is important that we strengthen the ability for aviation to be sustainable. That is why the government has taken clear initiatives on biofuels and aviation reduction obligations. International opinion on the taxation of fossil aviation fuel is increasing and aviation is entering emissions trading. Within the EU and between the EU Member States, we are now finding instruments that enable us to push forward the transition in aviation, with the support of the Swedish aviation industry. The government has, as said, provided support to Heart Areospace, GKN and other actors to ensure that electric aircraft as an industrial project can be developed in Sweden. Here I am very optimistic, although it is important to remember that a 19-person plan, however much I would like it to work and come as soon as possible, is not the answer to the challenge in the structure of Swedish domestic aviation. As I said, this capacity represents about 2 per cent of the domestic air traffic of Sweden. We should not wish to think, but must realistically see how we are facing the challenges of domestic aviation, and that is why the investigation has been set up.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-384	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure, on the one hand, that the rest areas have the function for which they are intended and, on the other hand, to impose clear sanctions on those occupying rest areas. First of all, I would like to stress that the rest areas along our roads should of course be safe and safe. Rest areas contribute to good road safety and accessibility on our roads. The problems that Tomas Morell points out at rest and parking places are often an expression of the lack of good regulations for professional drivers across the EU. The government is now changing. In July 2020, the so-called Mobility Package, which is a reform package for clear and fair conditions for heavy goods transport within the EU, was adopted. Sweden has been a leader in this work. With the new rules, we will no longer have a system whereby professional drivers from other countries are forced to spend their normal weekly rest in the vehicle at their place of posting. Safety at rest places affects many actors, and it is gratifying that Sweden's Åkeri companies, together with the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Agency, work together on this. Stakeholders will continue to work on issues related to safe resting places for professional traffic and how organised crime can be combated. In addition, the Finnish Transport Agency has the Government's mission to review how the lack of safe parking places for professional traffic along major roads can be remedied, and it also includes investigating the possibilities for camera surveillance at rest areas. A pilot operation is now being prepared at one of the rest stops in the country, which has had problems with order.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Rest places and drivers' work environment have been in a previous interpellation debate here today. The lack of rest areas has become almost dramatic in recent years. It has become the case that the foreign actors who are driving in Sweden, although they do not have the right to do so – they establish their business – have taken the rest areas and made them their own. They set up their vehicles and trailers and carry out some form of terminal activity, which has made it almost impossible to get in and take their rest or daily rest because the rest areas are occupied. I've been to Trafikverket about this, but they meant during the conversation that there's nothing they can do. I said this is strange because it is still the Swedish Transport Administration that is the landowner. They have to be able to evict those who don't have to. Parking is normally allowed for 24 hours, but when vehicles are set up for several days in a row you have passed 24 hours by margin. They have argued that they can do nothing about this, and the police can do nothing unless the landowner requests help. So that's the situation. This has meant that most professional drivers have nowhere to stay. In addition, several of the rest areas are closed because it has been vandalisation. They have stolen toilet chairs and sinks, and they have burned premises and so on. Then Trafikverket has chosen to close. This has reduced dramatically the possibility for a professional driver, and for me as a private car driver, to stay. I can say that I myself avoid rest places as far as possible, because it looks worse there than it did in the barn at home when you had not mucked. They don't use the toilets. They're on the outside. You get to wear boots when you go there. It is the everyday life of professional drivers today. In an earlier debate, Sofia Westergren raised the problem of female drivers. Everyone understands how female drivers choose to handle the situation, with the situation that is: They do not stop there. Just last night, I was talking to a driver. He said, "There is no place where we can stay today, but you can choose to break either a parking ban or a stop ban." What is the cheapest option for the day is what you choose. ..................................................... Another driver I talked to last week had driven for over an hour more than was allowed because there was no place to stop. Every rest stop was occupied by decommissioned trailers that didn't even have a tow truck in front of them. Only the trailers were standing there, and it was impossible to get in. At the same time, authorities in Sweden are fined drivers because they have not stopped and taken their break or daily rest. Then you'll end up in a moment 22. There is no place to stay because they are occupied by those who do not have the right to stand there. This is what we're talking about. And then you get fined because you park wrong when you get to a municipality. No matter how you do it, you do it wrong. Today, the field companies are paying parking tickets for drivers in the budget. Surely it cannot be the intention for rest stops to be used for terminal operations so that accessibility is hindered for those who have the right to enter there to take their break and rest?
i-NU5bJhVmvA5xUiWDbpnokj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the interpellation debate! Mr Morell and I got to know each other in our trades before we became politicians. Already then was the lack of positions on the agenda. Since police checkpoints replace existing rest places, the situation is even worse in combination with driving and rest times. Much of the driver's planning is to deliver to the customer, of course, but also to live up to and clear driving and rest time rules. However, if there are no rest areas, Madam President, it is difficult for drivers to meet the demands for breaks. In addition, the square regulation is such that you have to take one type of break after four and a half hours. I think it's the short version, 15 minutes. Then you get to drive for four and a half hours, and then you have to take half an hour. If you miss and take a break an hour earlier, Madam President, you have simply lost that hour of work that week. There is therefore no flexibility in the regulatory framework under which professional drivers are forced to work. If there is a rest area, it is as Mr Morell has described. It leaves a little to be desired – it's crappy. Set-ups are a government responsibility and part of the infrastructure. The regulatory framework for the trans-European network provides for regular resting places for trucks. These rest areas shall be safe against robbery and assault. Furthermore, Madam President, we have the threat of terror. We saw the terrible event on Drottninggatan when a truck was stolen and a terrible deed could happen. We have shady operations that can go under the radar. It is incredibly important that we get camera surveillance at rest places, not least to attract more female drivers to the profession. Then we need camera surveillance. We can't afford to investigate anymore, but it needs to be put in place. If you have nothing to hide, you are not afraid to be monitored, but you are afraid of the insecurity caused by the lack of camera surveillance. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister consider that Sweden complies with the regulations on scaffolding?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-407	Madam President, I would like We have discussed the working environment of professional drivers in the past. What could be more important for professional drivers, apart from the fact that we should have a well-functioning infrastructure so that it can run? It is, of course, the rest areas. Madam President, I would like What are our neighbours doing? We could see that the Greens in Germany criticised the German Government a couple of years ago because parking places for trucks were too bad. In fact, Germany is currently investing SEK 1 billion in improving rest areas there after criticism from the Greens. It's like it's the upside-down world. This environmental party government cuts down, down and down on the infrastructure. The consequences, of course, are those that many of us who are on the road notice. We're gonna stop at a rest stop. We're going to the bathroom. Let's open the bathroom door. We'll hold our noses. We'll close the door and get out of there. That's because it's disgusting, dirty and disgusting on many occasions. At some point it has to be cleaned up. But I've never been there. Madam President, I would like At the same time, we have 700 000 people in Sweden who are unable to support themselves and who live on subsidies. So we have a situation where we passively pay out subsidies to people to do nothing while we have dirty toilets along our roads. Get it together, whoever can! In fact, the Swedish Government should of course do as the German Government and make sure that we have clean, neat and fresh in our rest areas and ensure that we develop a well-functioning infrastructure at our rest areas. Gävleborg is a thoroughfare for the E4, the times it is open and not shut down due to traffic disruptions. During the pandemic, we have seen that two very popular stopovers for professional drivers close at 20.30 in the evenings, which means that the drivers cannot get a bite to eat. So the infrastructure of our professional drivers has been broken. It would have been great if our government had done as the German Government and made a powerful expansion of rest areas in Sweden. The government should make sure that the rest areas that we have are whole, stylish, clean and fresh so that you want to use them. Madam President, I would like Those of us who have made cars in other countries have seen how a well-functioning infrastructure can work with clean and fresh toilets, showers, dining places, filling stations and parking places where you can even sleep and feel safe. There are security cameras and the like that make you feel safe. But, Madam President, what is happening in Sweden? According to the Government's proposal and the Swedish Transport Administration's announcement, there is a shortage of SEK 50 billion just to maintain the existing road network in Sweden. This is how it is done in Environmental Party Sweden. The problem, Madam President, is that the Social Democrats allow it. There seems to be miles between the German environmental party and the car-hating environmental party in Sweden. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what plan there is to ensure that our professional drivers, whether it be men or women, can go to the bathroom and perhaps take a shower and to ensure that we have a well-functioning infrastructure for rest areas.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-416	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the latter. I believe that most who follow this debate have as much difficulty as I do in following Lars Beckman's reasoning. If Mr Beckman wants to debate with the Green Party, he is very happy to do so in quite different arenas, of course, but not in Parliament when it comes to an interpellation debate on rest areas. Furthermore, it becomes very strange when we hear a Member here say that the infrastructure is now being cut. We have recently presented an infrastructure proposal with nearly SEK 900 billion in infrastructure investments. This much has never been invested in Sweden. The first national plan I had the opportunity to present in 2018 was already at SEK 700 billion. That was then over SEK 100 billion more than the Moderates were able to perform during their reign. Then it cut down on the infrastructure. Then job tax deductions were 1, 2, 3, 4 and so on incredibly much more important than investing in infrastructure. A situation was then created in which it was underinvested in the Swedish road system and in the rail system. What we inherited was a situation where there were signal errors and exchange errors recurring in the rail system and where the Swedish roads had poor standards. There we have provided historic resources. And, as I said, the Finnish Transport Administration has never had as much resources as now. When it comes to inspection sites, there is systematic work in progress where the state, together with the haulage companies and with other operators, is looking at opportunities to get more safe resting places. We are now also increasing the conditions for guarded rest areas. I am a little surprised when Sofia Westergren, on the other hand, thinks that it is a problem if a rest stop becomes a police control place. Seriously, we need more police control points. We need better means of controlling professional traffic and preventing the illegal activities that have been on our roads during the time when there were no rules. Now we are tightening up both the possibilities to act and the conditions for control, not least for the police. I also note that the representatives of the Moderates regularly here question the driving and rest time rules and the checkpoints and still do not answer the previous questions on posting. How are you? Is it the case that the Moderates also dream of getting back to a system where we should not have any control measures on this issue when it comes to rest areas and the transport industry? I think it is important that we continue along the path that this government set out in 2014. There should be order in terms of professional traffic. There should be better controls and better tools to intervene against illegal cabotage activities. We will ensure the quality of our roads but also ensure more safe resting places. What we should consider and which I think is a difficult balance is what is the responsibility of the state and what is the responsibility of the market. We have, for example, Örebro Truckstop. I am convinced that Mr Morell has been there. I've been to it. It's a fantastic business. But it is a private initiative that exists to create the opportunity for truck drivers and others to stay and rent a dwelling or get other convenience. I believe that, as in many other European countries, we should be able to find private entrepreneurs who are also involved in creating conditions for rest places that are safe, of course with the state. There, the Finnish Transport Administration has a responsibility, together with the haulage industry, to find more safe resting places. We are going to invest in professional traffic, and we are going to ensure that it is safe on our roads. We are increasing the control possibilities and we are ensuring that we get better quality on our roads.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-425	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. You can't have the police's control points open, you have the bars set for them. Otherwise it gets soiled, with emphasis on soiled. It started back then when I was active in the traffic police. Then you had to watch where you put your feet on the hill. It is clear that it is not possible to have such an area open. It is a place of work for those who will carry out checks. In the case of professional drivers, there is a rather strict regulatory framework for stopping to take their break. After four and a half hours of driving time, drivers shall have a break of at least 45 minutes. And after a daily driving time of nine hours, or ten hours that you can walk up to twice a week, you should have a daily rest period. For those who are roadfarers, the rest area is the opportunity to take a break or rest. It's worked through the ages. But since we opened up the borders and lost control over who is carrying out transport in the country, we have gained this widespread illegal activity that has taken possession of the rest areas, set up vehicles and use them for terminal operations. This means that you do not have the opportunity to come in and stop and take your break after four and a half hours driving time or take your daily rest after nine hours driving time, but you have to continue driving and try to find a place where you can set off your vehicle. The problem is that we are talking about vehicle combinations that are 24 or possibly 25 meters long and weigh 60 - 64 tons. It is not something you step aside with anyway, but there must be an area that is large enough. Today, the vast majority of municipalities are imposing parking bans on trucks in industrial areas. It is also a direct consequence of the outland traffic that occupies the places and soils something incredible. In Skövde municipality, where I have lived, they had to put large boulders on surfaces so that they wouldn't stay there, because they went into gardens and did their needs. Here we have a problem, and here the government and the state have been completely passive. They haven't made sure to remove those who don't have here to do. Instead, we have had an activity based on occupying areas that should be accessible to the public. They are taken as their surfaces and carry out terminal operations. It does not hold up, because it pushes away the serious business, which then is not able to take its statutory breaks. The driver I talked to who had been allowed to drive for more than an hour over driving time said that his employer will receive a sanction fee as surely as a letter in the mail if there is a check by the Swedish Transport Agency, because then the Swedish Transport Agency claims that you have not planned your business well enough. But how do you behave when you don't know what the situation is like on the road where you drive? Normally one should be able to stay in the rest areas that exist, but they are occupied – b elamrad. Some people can't even get in by car. It has become so bad, and the government has been fabulously passive. The government has also not invested in the traffic police to the extent necessary to clean this up. The Finnish Transport Administration, for its part, feels unable to do anything even though they own the land, which is extremely strange. Now the government has to get to grips with this and really make a workshop, not just talk and blame everyone else who hasn't done anything. That's not good enough. It is the future that applies, and it should be clear what applies – to everyone. Create conditions for serious entrepreneurship!
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-436	Madam President, I would like I would like to reply directly to the Minister for Infrastructure's question about police control points: of course I want more police control points. I want more cops on the road, more checks and more order and order, no talk about anything else. But that debate is about resting places being converted into police control places when both things are needed. We need more rest places, too. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure has also asked about squeezing. This can be read about in a bill on clapping signed by Reinfeldt on 11 September 2014. Bill 2013/ 14:234 of the Moderates and the Alliance Government states on fines for cabotage. It makes me happy after eight and a half years on the board of a haulage company, where we worked hard against illegal cabotage transport in Sweden. It was not this minister but a colleague of his, Mr Ygeman, who went out to the elections and wanted to have a proper vote, that is, not timed it. We're still looking forward to that. After all, the combination of too few rest places and driving and rest times is a dilemma that stresses our drivers. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure if he can send an appeal from Swedish professional drivers to the EU for a more flexible regulatory framework in an increasingly complex traffic environment. My suggestion is to look at Denmark. There's a 5 percent wing moon.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-441	Madam President, I would like The Swedish government consists of two parties, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. Then I assume that the Minister for Infrastructure will represent both parties in this House. If there is any other opinion, the Minister will have to talk about it. I made a comparison between Germany and Sweden. The German Green Party criticised the government there for not investing in parking spaces and rest areas. It now invests 1 billion a year. I simply note, Madam President, that the difference is like night and day against the car-hating Green Party in Sweden, which is therefore part of this government. It is this Minister for Infrastructure who has to take responsibility for the Environmental Party's policy, where we see severe cuts in the infrastructure in Sweden. The Swedish Transport Agency warned in TV4's News last Saturday about the consequences of not even being able to manage the maintenance of the roads with the substandard bill that the government intends to present. Of course this all goes together. The roads are getting worse and worse. The rest places the professional drivers don't want to use because they're so disgusting. At the same time, Madam President, we have 700 000 Swedes in our benefit systems that are not self-sufficient. I understand that the professional drivers who see this feature are surprised. How can we have among the dirtiest and most disgusting toilets in the world when we have 700,000 people on grants? It would not be impossible to ensure that we have clean and fresh rest areas and that we do as in Germany and expand the infrastructure greatly so that both private motorists and professional drivers can make their way in Sweden.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-447	Madam President, I would like Thank you, dear interpellants! I appreciate the commitment to the need for safer rest areas and improved conditions in the transport sector. This is an interpellation by Mr Morell, and one might think about it. We can see that we now have a system in which, for a number of years, we have created better conditions for order and order in professional traffic. We have complaints, which did not exist when the Moderates ruled the country but came after the turn of the government in 2014. We have made quite extensive efforts to create order and order in the transport sector. In addition, we have a mobility package which, for example, obliges foreign drivers to return home every three weeks, I think it is, rather than being in the country for a long time, risking doing what is called illegal cabotage. I see this as success. I see it as having actually created better conditions for order – it together with the Swedish Transport Administration, the haulage industry and the transport companies working to get more safe rest places. The Swedish democrats still want a change of government. They think it would be better to take this with Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. I have previously asked Mr Morell what demands the Swedish democrats make on such a government. Will there be any demand from the Swedish Democrats for more safe rest places, for the mobility package to be completed or for additional resources for checks on professional traffic? This government, and also the government in the last parliamentary term, have been able to show that we are taking strong steps to improve conditions. Nevertheless, the Swedish democrats choose to say that they want to support another option, which clearly shows in this debate that they are not in favour of posting checks and that they think that regulated driving and rest time rules are complicated and that in some case even regrets that rest places are being converted into police control places, despite the fact that we actually need more police control places. It is appropriate for the Swedish Democrats to show whether a change of government is more important or, as Thomas Morell is working with, to ensure that there is order and order in professional traffic. Back to the basic question. However, I would like to note that there is work going on where Sweden's Åkeri companies are now doing their own research to ensure that we have good quality in our rest areas. I believe, of course, that the cooperation that exists between the Finnish Transport Agency and the transport and haulage companies is good. It is good for creating more safe rest areas, but also because now, with the new liberalisation of the Camera Surveillance Act, we can have opportunities to have guarded rest areas – that is, we can have camera surveillance and thus prosecute crime. That is the development we are now seeing possible. When we also have nearly SEK 900 billion in infrastructure investments, we also create better conditions for building more safe rest areas. So we provide resources, ensure that the actors cooperate, provide new legal space for the police to act within and create order. The question is how the Swedish Democrats choose to act in the future.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I can say as I usually do: as long as I breathe, stand up and have the confidence of the voters, I will pursue this issue. No one will ever have to doubt that. It's an assurance that I'm leaving. A few key words came from the Government: criminal prosecution. A prerequisite for criminal prosecution is that there is someone reporting the crime. We don't have that today. These are very beautiful words about having made powerful efforts, but they do not run out on the asphalt. There aren't enough people out there to do the controls. There are a number of extremely good control officials who are doing an amazing job, but they are too few. This has created the situation we have today, in which illegal activities are basically free of charge. I became chairman of the transport safety group in Västra Götaland in 2012. There were a number of police officers at the then County War. The problem was identified in the rest areas and the widespread crime that also occurs there. It's not just that the drivers don't find a place to stay. Nor can they choose any place, for they are victims of crime when they stop. There are rest areas that are hotspots in this respect. There's fuel and stuff stolen on the vehicle. You can steal the whole vehicle – threaten the driver so he has to leave the whole ride. This has thus become a free market for criminal activities in Sweden. I've been going on about this since I got into Parliament. Together with Sofia, I have been running this in Sweden's Åkeri company for many years before that. And we're stomping in the same position. Now I say as I said earlier: It is time to point forward, talk about what applies and make sure to create a control activity worthy of the name, because this is not good enough.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-461	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt Mr Morell's commitment to the haulage industry and the challenges that exist. But despite this commitment, we can note that a vote for Thomas Morell means a vote for the Swedish Democrats. And a vote for the Swedish Democrats means that Ulf Kristersson is the Prime Minister candidate. This means a moderate government and a likely return to a system in which the conditions in the transport industry were ignored. It is a system in which the free market should decide. Posting from day one, which is an incredibly important regulation to prevent the unfair competition that exists in the transport sector, calls the Moderates protectionism – an obstacle to the market. I see it as a success that we can finally ensure that we do not get unfair competition and that hauliers like Sofia Westergren, former CEO of the Åke companies, and other road hauliers should know that the companies they invest in themselves have fair conditions of competition. The truck drivers who work in the haulage industry should know that those who are competing with the jobs have reasonable working conditions. There should not be dumped wages or bad social conditions; one should not be able to sleep in the cabin week after week. Now we have a system where you will return every three weeks, where we will check postings from day one, where we will provide resources to the police – more than ever – and also the law room that will allow you to trample and impose penalties and have customer responsibility and demands on winter tires. The list is long for the order we have created during this time. I note that it is worrying for those who vote for the Swedish Democrats and believe that it would be a way forward to create order in professional traffic.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-465	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to make some specific priorities in the budgetary and infrastructure proposals so that the resources are sufficient to ensure that the existing rail and road network is properly maintained. When this government took office, the situation was such that for many years it had been underinvested in the maintenance of the state transport infrastructure. In 2018, the Government presented a new cross-road national plan for the transport infrastructure, where resources increased significantly for the maintenance of both roads and railways. This has enabled Trafikverket to extend the implementation of urgent maintenance measures throughout the country. The government has recently submitted a bill to Parliament with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure measures. In total, the framework amounts to SEK 876 billion for the period 2022-2033. We are doing this to both take care of and develop existing infrastructure, but also to carry out new investments throughout the country. For maintenance of roads and railways, the framework is proposed to amount to SEK 362 billion. It is well needed to meet the great needs that exist after many years of neglected maintenance. But it is also important that the resources provided by the state in the area of infrastructure are used efficiently and in the best possible way. Better cost control is needed. The level of knowledge about cost development and the learning from past experience therefore needs to be increased so that early action can be taken. Good transparency about the causes of cost increases is important. Efforts to promote increased productivity and innovation in the civil engineering sector also need to be stepped up. Once the Riksdag has taken a position on the bill, the work will continue, which aims to produce the basis for a new national plan, the so-called action plan. In the action plan, the government will of course support the question of the need for national support. This government wants all of Sweden to grow, live and develop, and a well-functioning transport system is an important part of the construction of society.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-470	Madam President, I would like If you put an anti-mobility party, the Green Party, in the Swedish government, it has consequences. The consequences can be seen daily by those living in Gävleborg, Madam President. You can see them, for example, if you try to drive E4 south on a Sunday night. Then the RDS radio alarms over and over again about major traffic disruptions between Söderhamn and Gävle. In addition, if there is a traffic accident at that time, the E4 will be suspended for hours. This happens far too often. Madam President, I would like In Gävleborg County and Sweden we have a very important basic industry: the forest industry. There are many professional drivers, who should of course be able to get along the roads. With government cuts in infrastructure, we will have a worse road network. I understand that the Minister never looks at the TV4 news, but if he did, he would have seen the feature this weekend where the Swedish Transport Administration almost uniquely went out and alerted that if the government does not provide money for the road network, there will be severe cuts. Then you wonder: If the ambition is for the whole of Sweden to live and we should believe in the minister, why does the government not listen to its expert authority? Why don't you listen to Trafikverket? After all, it must be a huge destruction of capital when state infrastructure is broken down because you do not get money for maintenance. Ask any property owner who lets his house decay – to let the house decay or to renovate it continuously. Madam President, I would like What are the socio-economic consequences when Trafikverket now responds to the lack of road maintenance by lowering speeds? Most recently in Ekot this morning there was a warning that the speed would be lowered for a further number of miles. That's how the Finnish Transport Administration solves the zero vision. The Green Party is cutting back on road maintenance together with the Social Democrats and the cooperation parties. The Finnish Transport Agency responds with speed reductions. Madam President, I would like I do not rule out that it is for ideological reasons that one of the government parties is doing so. You simply let the road network decay, because then you have reduced speed and it becomes harder to drive. But for me it is a mystery why the Social Democrats do this – the Social Democrats who have historically protected the forest industry and the steel industry and in both words and deeds stood up for Sweden to live. Why on earth are they making proposals to the Swedish parliament that mean that there are worse roads in Sweden? The same government intends to introduce a free year at a cost of 17 billion a year. The same government intends to present a proposal for a family week at a cost of 30 billion a year. Thus, 47 billion a year, the government intends to give to adults, healthy people, for them to be free. At the same time, Trafikverket says that 50 billion are missing only for road maintenance. I think anyone understands that this is completely unreasonable.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you to my Moderate colleague, Lars Beckman, for giving me the opportunity to join this extremely important debate! I am taking this opportunity to debate once again road allocations and poor road conditions in the county of Jämtland. The Minister for Infrastructure has been patient with my moves on this subject in the past, but we are still waiting for results, and I therefore continue to argue. The situation in our county is acute when it comes to substandard roads. Madam President, I would like I am also continuing my fight for new bases of calculation and therefore also for the relevant road allocations that this would provide. It should also be related to actual road conditions and not based on the number of inhabitants in the county, which disadvantage Jämtland County. I would also like to refer to the Swedish Transport Administration's plans for speed limits, and I will start with this here. From December this year, Trafikverket's plans to reduce speed to 80 kilometres per hour on important transport routes in Jämtland and Västernorrland can again become a fact. Last year the E45 was affected, and now the E14 is up to date.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-484	Madam President, I would like This has enormous consequences for those of us who live and work in the region. Reducing the speed of such long distances reduces the availability of work commuting, goods transport and the tourism industry. Then consider that Jämtland County has two basic industries, the forest industry and the tourism industry, which are completely dependent on well-functioning road surfaces. We would prefer to see the infrastructure developed instead of slowing down. We understand that we want to improve road safety, but then we think it is better to take other measures. Middle separation in order to get free paths is what we advocate. We also want the Swedish Transport Administration to carry out an analysis of what mine separation would mean for road safety and what socio-economic effects it would have. Before such an analysis is made, we think that the Swedish Transport Administration should wait with its plans. This also has representatives of Region Västernorrland, Region Jämtland Härjedalen, Sundsvall Municipality, Ånge Municipality, Bräcke Municipality, Östersund Municipality and Åre Municipality today rewritten in the county media in Västernorrland and Jämtland County. There is a consensus on which measures would be appropriate. The concern is very great and gathered, and it comes from both politics and industry as well as from other representatives of our counties.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-488	Madam President, I would like I entered this debate too, because the roads and their maintenance are extremely important for our whole country. Now we have heard about the situation in Jämtland. In an earlier debate we discussed the situation in Värmland. Lars Beckman has addressed the situation on the roads in Gävleborg County. I can add Skaraborg County myself. E20 there is nothing to write home about, I can say. It's a terrible road in every respect. I also have another county, and it's Västerbotten. There are also roads in very bad condition. It is common for the whole kingdom that the roads are in far too bad shape. This affects the possibility of living and living outside the metropolitan areas. Our important industry, which exists along the fine-meshed road network, must have a reasonable chance of working. Then it can't be that the roads aren't navigable. Sometimes the roads are in such bad shape that it is not possible to get through. Especially up in Jämtland County there are places where it is so pitty that it is four-wheel drive that applies if you can get through at all. A survey was carried out in January of this year. 33 per cent of Swedes said that their cars were damaged because of roads that were in poor condition or due to poor road maintenance. 10% indicates the poor condition of the road as the cause of the damage. The fact that the road is in such bad shape that there is damage to vehicles is one thing. This, in turn, can lead to a sudden breakdown in a suspension of the wheel or the separation of a guide. But the great effect affects those professional drivers who drive on roads where it constantly shakes and rattles. It's getting up in the shoulders. Then you have a health and safety problem too. The Government will, of course, reply that it is up to the employer. Yes, but the employer can't be out repairing roads. In fact, it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that the roads are navigable. Otherwise, the alternative is not to drive on the roads at all. Then you turn off much of the country. These are big words when the Government talks about priorities and how much money is spent on road maintenance. Sure, there's been an increase in the stakes. But that's not enough! There's 50 billion missing. That's a lot of money. It's always the same answer. When you question this, you get in response from the Government that this government has invested far more than previous governments have done. But the message, that it is not enough, does not go forward. There are many Members of this House who have pointed out the lack of roads. The industry has pointed out the shortage on the road. At some point the government will have to sit down and listen to those who make criticisms and say that maintenance is too bad. We must ensure that the whole country can live. Everyone should be able to live and operate around our country. The companies up in Vilhelmina should have the same conditions as companies down in Trollhättan. A company in Järpen should have the same conditions as a company in Uppsala. But that is not the case today. You have to fight for your existence. And the government closes its eyes and pretends it's raining.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-497	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Beckman, for an important interpellation. More than half of the road network was built before 1970, and it was dimensioned for the traffic of the past. Now we need to equip the road network for future traffic with more and more transport. Road transport can be likened to Sweden's bloodstream, which supplies the country with oxygen. If the whole country is to live, the infrastructure must work. Unfortunately, however, the reality shows something different about the quality of Swedish roads. The maintenance debt grows like a snowball. If we don't stop the decay, a third of the roads will be derelict. That is the destruction of capital that Mr Beckman spoke of. Madam President, I would like I would recommend to the listeners that they see the TV4 news that was broadcast on Saturday. It was a report about the needs of the road network according to Trafikverket. The opinion of the Finnish Transport Agency was supported by the Transport companies, who share their views. I, a former rider and truck driver, have seen how the road environment has become increasingly difficult to access for larger vehicles. In the run-up to the debate, I have spoken to old colleagues in the industry who testify that things are getting worse. The Long-term effects of underfunded road maintenance confirm their image. Madam President, I would like The depth of track in the road is increasing. With ever narrower roads, the vehicles drive in exactly the same place. A certain surface is given a lot of load while the rest of the surface is not loaded. With wider roads, driving becomes softer, and it can be more adapted to other traffic. And the vehicles load the roadway in a gentler way. The depth of track has increased by 100 percent during the time of the Minister for Infrastructure in power. The tracks in the roadway also create problems for winter road maintenance and cause water bodies. I will also give the listeners a description of how the oil gravel, which is used to make the economy go together, works. Financial repairs made with bitumen and gravel cause great irritation as they cause both stone shoots on windscreens and sheet metal damage. Furthermore, the sustainability of road legislation is very poor. On the west coast, professional drivers testify to the poor oil gravel, which is also laid on motorways. The damage that's been fixed is already back after a couple of weeks. It can't even be called provisional with such short shelf life. Madam President, I would like I would like to give the Minister for Infrastructure the opportunity to tell him how he sees the fact that the wheel tracks have increased by 100% during his time in power.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-504	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment. I appreciate that, and I think it is important that we have several people protecting the infrastructure in Sweden. I would have liked the moderate Members to have had the same commitment when they were in government. In opposition, the commitment is incredibly great. In government, it wasn't as big. At the time, resources were not put on the road or on infrastructure. On the contrary, it was a dramatically lower level of ambition than what we have today, when we are now presenting an infrastructure bill, where nearly SEK 900 billion is invested in infrastructure. More resources are being invested than ever. Not least, more resources are invested in road maintenance than ever before. But it is clear that investment is also needed. I note that the Moderates in Parliament want to reallocate money from investment to road maintenance. This means that you may be prepared to remove investments in Ostkustbanan, Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm, Ostlänken, Sydostlänen or other important initiatives in the country. That is how I interpret the arguments of the Moderates here today. Can we then be told what is going away? That would be welcome. Is it Gothenburg – Borås? Yes, then the traffic between Gothenburg and Borås will cause road 40 to be torn down even more. That's the effect. We now have an opportunity to also make important rail investments on routes where heavy transport otherwise goes on the road. I think road 40 is a good example. I appreciate Saila Quicklund's commitment to continuing to ensure the quality of roads, not least in rural areas. We have chosen from the government's side, in addition to the overall major efforts, to make extra investments on precisely rural roads. We have earmarked resources. When it comes to Jämtland, I can mention the big investment we make on BK4. So we spend extra government resources on strengthening the load capacity on roads, so that 74-ton trucks can drive there. This applies not least to Jämtland County, Dalarna, Västerbotten and Norrbotten. The fact is that it is a redistribution where national resources go mainly to the forest counties in order to increase the bearing capacity of roads that are important not least for the forest industry. I hope and believe that this is something that Saila Quicklund also appreciates. I believe that over the last two years almost a quarter of a billion has been invested in Jämtland County alone. And these are important efforts to improve bearings after years of run-down roads. Nevertheless, we should consider who is working on our roads. A large part is about foreign truck traffic. When Swedish trucks travel on the roads in Germany or in France – this is what people in the hall who have experience in road haulage – pay Swedish hauliers. But when other countries' trucks travel on Swedish roads, they pay nothing. Eurovignette cooperation, which has existed between three four countries, is now disappearing. Sweden becomes one of the few countries in the EU where foreign trucks have to work on the roads without paying anything. It is the rural residents who pay. Swedish haulage companies pay. Why is this? Well, the proposals that have been made here several times in Parliament for a road wear charge that would mean that everyone who drives in commercial traffic on the road would be involved in paying, stopped by the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. The effect is that it is the rural residents and the Swedish haulage companies who pay for wear and tear on Swedish roads when the transports increase, because you have a resistance to being involved in funding. I think it would be good if we could get a broad consensus behind what all other countries have: an opportunity also for foreign trucks to be involved in contributing to the quality of the Swedish road network.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-514	Madam President, I would like What are the consequences when one of the government parties, the Green Party, hates mobility? They have that in their political DNA. That's why they were formed. There is not a debate in which the Green Party does not talk about how much they hate mobility. Yes, Sweden's roads are in bad shape. So this comes from TV4 news. Then I'll read it in front of you. A large part of the country's roads are in bad shape. The transport companies and the Finnish Transport Agency believe that much more money is needed for road maintenance than the 197 billion for the next twelve years proposed by the government in the infrastructure bill. Much more money is needed, Madam President. It is therefore not a marginal adjustment that needs to be made. The consequences describe Kenth Åberg, who has a transport company in Västerbotten. He says: It is disastrously bad. The things that are in the car and the car itself take a beating. According to transport companies, nearly 13 per cent of state roads are in very poor condition. The least money goes to the roads near smaller towns and in sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like The Finnish Transport Agency, the Minister's own expert authority, says that 50 billion are missing. How much is 50 billion? Well, it's a family week, something that this government with partner parties agreed on. It costs 30 billion. The free year in the LAS agreement, which the government also intends to introduce, costs 17 billion. So the government intends to pay 47 billion – 47 000 million – for people to be free. In response to the Minister's question about what an alternative budget could look like, Madam President, we are not getting any more infrastructure from it. Madam President, I would like What happens when the Green Party in the government impairs road maintenance and fails to manage reinvestment? Well, the infrastructure manager must prioritise harder, and the priority then ends up on the most trafficked network with the highest traffic work at the expense of the less trafficed road network, i.e. the roads in the rural areas of Sweden – the roads that are often the main roads for freight, home services, the police, the rescue services, the forest fields or whatever it may be. I have had other debates with the Minister for Infrastructure where I showed the way between Ockelbo and Bollnäs. There you have to have a tank or track wagon to get there, and the forest companies that drive these trucks say that it is dangerous to send the drivers there. A little humility could have been desired from the Minister for Infrastructure. He doesn't have to listen to us Moderates. Ignore it! Ignore the Swedish people, who are trying to get on the roads! But listen to your own expert authority! That would make sense, wouldn't it? This authority says that we must get 50 billion more, not to build new roads, not to make four files that would be needed on the E4 between Gävle and Söderhamn, the road where traffic stops over and over again, but to cope with maintenance. If you live in Hälsingland you should not have to go on gravel roads. Trafikverket lowers speed, removes asphalt and makes gravel roads. It's a mockery of the residents of Hälsingland. The government subsidised electric bicycles for billions while Trafikverket removed asphalt roads in Hälsingland and converted them into gravel roads. Madam President, I would like We are not in Albania or any other Eastern country. We are in Sweden, and there are to be navigable roads here. We're gonna need another 50 billion, or the road network's gonna get worse.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-526	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your previous reply. Regardless of the minister's praise, we do not actually see the effects of this in Jämtland County. That is not enough, and as my colleague Lars Beckman said, the expert authority also agrees that the funds are not sufficient. I would also like to highlight the very unfair distribution of road funding between our counties. The distribution of money is based on the number of inhabitants and not on the facts and actual load on the road network. I have many times compared Jämtland County to Blekinge County. In Jämtland County we have 5 117 kilometres of county roads. The traffic volume is 114 million vehicle kilometres. In 2019 we were 130 000 inhabitants of the county. Corresponding figures for Blekinge are 1,412 kilometres of county roads. The traffic volume is 79 million vehicle kilometres, and the county has 159 000 inhabitants. It is thus considerably longer county roads and greater traffic in Jämtland County than in Blekinge County. Yet our county receives considerably less funding. The Minister for Infrastructure must understand the illogical nature of this. I have also been pursuing the issue of new, fairer bases of calculation for many years in Parliament. Of course, there must also be a reasonable distribution of money between operation and maintenance and investments based on actual needs. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: when will the government introduce a fairer allocation of road funding based on actual conditions and not on the number of inhabitants in the counties?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-531	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Road maintenance is inadequate; we have been debating it here for a while. There is a considerable amount of money missing to ensure the status of the road network – not to improve the status but only to ensure it. There's an advantage in getting year-rich, as they call it these days. You don't say you're getting old without getting year-long. When I grew up, my father was an excavator, and I was with him on the road. So I have seen on the spot how to build a road. It is quite interesting, because the roads that my father and his colleagues built in the 60s and 70s when they blew up mountains, sawed down forests and paved the way for infrastructure in roadless land up in Västerbotten cannot afford to entertain today, which affects the possibility of living and working on those latitudes. In Skaraborg, where I live nowadays, the E20 is a child of grief. It is a European road that does not meet a standard that is reasonable for a European road with the traffic load that is. This is also true on the E45 and the other European roads to the north. These vital nerves needed to live and operate in the area do not measure up to the amount of traffic. When so much criticism comes even from the Swedish Transport Administration, the government must understand that it is not enough money and start looking at how to solve this. Then there is more money for road maintenance, otherwise the roads will get a worse standard than they have today.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-536	Madam President, I would like This is the third debate I have with the Minister for Infrastructure, and I think he has chosen to misunderstand me. I don't want less police control places without more. I want more checks and more cops on the road. The Minister for Infrastructure talks about mileage tax and Eurovignette. When I was on the board of Sweden's Åkeri company this was a debate, and then it was really about whether to put something on the riders, i.e. increase the tax burden, something else should be removed. But the conversation has never been about it. You can't just come up with more charges. This does not change the competitive position of Swedish hauliers today. It's a conversation you could have, but as long as it's just about increased taxes, we say no, thank you. The Minister for Infrastructure has also mentioned that the Alliance Government reduced the tax on labour. But the job tax credit is something that still exists. It's not removed, it's a very good thing. Reduced taxes on labour meant that more people worked and participated in the tax base, giving more money to the common treasury. That's good stuff! When prioritising the money, roads with lower traffic loads will be deprioritized. That is why, as Mr Beckman says, we would rather see EUR 50 billion for infrastructure than for working-age people's leave.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-541	Madam President, I would like Let me first comment on the very last thing that was said. That's not true. It is not that the Moderates propose that money be taken from any welfare venture to road maintenance. That's untrue. As I understand it, you support the discussions in Parliament within the framework of infrastructure investments, but you want to redistribute. You want to move money from development to road maintenance. This is not the first time that the Moderates in opposition want to spend more money on road maintenance. This has happened during this parliamentary term, but in a majority position you have never done so. It's interesting to see. That is also why I have chosen to ask: What is going away? Is it Gothenburg– Borås, Ostlänken or Ostkustbanan? It is time to come up with evidence and tell us what infrastructure initiatives the Moderates would like to remove. I noted that Mr Beckman initially spoke about the Finnish Transport Agency. It's an amazing authority. I hope that Lars Beckman will also listen to the Swedish Transport Administration when we talk about speed, speed reductions and road safety. Obviously this is not the case. The honourable Member chooses to take the arguments that are best suited for the moment. The Finnish Transport Agency is an amazing authority, and we listen to it when it comes to the successful work on road safety. Last year there were 190 deaths, and that is the lowest number ever on our roads. The year before it was 219. In the 1970s it was 1,300 annually. A fantastic work is being done on road safety, and it is because we have invested in improved road quality, good design of roads and, not least, middle separation. Member Saila Quicklund chose to mention that we from the government have provided funds to speed up the work and improve the conditions for central railings along roads, not only in Jämtland but throughout the country. It's a result. Fewer people than ever die and are injured on our Swedish roads, and that is because we are now prioritising infrastructure and road safety. I note that the Moderate debaters do not answer the question of the road wear charge. We got a response from Sofia Westergren. I note that the principle must nevertheless be that those who are working on our roads should be involved in paying for it. But the Moderates have given carte blanche for foreign trucks not to be involved in paying. Nevertheless, I think it would be appropriate for Mr Beckman to tell the Swedish parliament why Swedish hauliers, why the residents of Ockelbo, should be involved in paying for the quality of Swedish roads but not the trucks from the rest of Europe. It is reasonable, because there is a broad consensus behind safeguarding road quality one, that we would get a broad consensus behind giving foreign trucks the privilege of also being involved in funding the Swedish road infrastructure. In this way we would not, as the Moderates otherwise propose, have to close down some railway efforts. They are also important, not least if we are to achieve the climate targets. While we are talking about climate objectives, I cannot help but mention the following. If you want to spend resources on infrastructure, I can see that the Moderates spend nearly SEK 7 billion in their draft budgets on reducing petrol taxes instead of improving road quality. For me, it is an odd priority in a situation when we are facing a climate crisis. What if we could get a better investment in road quality instead of reduced petrol tax? It would have been good for the climate and for future generations.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-547	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that the Moderates want to reduce petrol and diesel taxes, and we are proud of that. You should be able to live and live throughout Sweden. So does a party that is not kidnapped by the Green Party, which has subsidised electric bicycles for urban residents for billions of dollars. This debate has been clear. There are parties that really want the whole of Sweden to live, and there is a government with an environmental party that also governs infrastructure initiatives. I asked a few questions at the beginning of the debate. I think that everyone has discovered that I have not received an answer to them. I asked if the government is aware of the consequences in terms of longer travel times when the Swedish Transport Administration lowers speeds due to less road maintenance. There will be less comfort, more wear and tear and more damage to vehicles. I asked whether it makes sense and reasonable for the government to engage in the amazing destruction of capital when the state's infrastructure is breaking down at a higher rate. I say that this is probably an ideology. There are parties formed because they hate mobility and motorism, and that, of course, affects when they govern government policy. Madam President, I would like The consequences are deeply worrying for the business community, for residents, for the police, the rescue services and the ambulance when roads are converted from well-functioning asphalt roads to gravel roads. Madam President, I would like We can't have that. We cannot have a government that is actively breaking down the Swedish road network. According to Trafikverket 50 billion is missing for road maintenance, and then we have not built a four-lane road between Gävle and Söderhamn with that money. Madam President, I would like It has been a clarification debate.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-553	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate this evening. I myself come from Kosta, a small community in the middle of Småland with almost 800 inhabitants. I am well acquainted with an environment where the roads are absolutely crucial. There are no main courses. Yes, there is a military airport, but the alternatives to the car are few. That means it's the car we're using. I think many people in Småland recognize themselves in the description that in recent years there have been more and more road work. Some have even sworn a little over the roadwork: Is it yet another roadwork? Yes, it is because we are repairing. If you complain about roadwork, blame me, I've said in interviews. After years of underinvestment, we take the opportunity to renovate. Therefore, we also spend more resources than ever on having a good quality in Swedish road maintenance. But I think it is important to emphasise that we must also ensure that the resources we spend on road maintenance actually go to road maintenance. I hope that the members of both the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates will read the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It states that maintenance costs have increased by 60 per cent compared to the index of 10 per cent. This is a dramatic increase in road maintenance costs. I have therefore assigned a commission to Trafikverket to carry out a proper cost control. Now that we have a government that greatly increases investment in road maintenance and rail maintenance, it should not be an opportunity for companies to make money. Instead, we should use and make the best use of taxpayers' crowns. We do this by ensuring that we get more rail maintenance and road maintenance for the money in the largest infrastructure bill ever put forward in the country.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-559	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me if I am prepared to make a distinction between sports that have a fixed audience (arena) and VVS – sports with an audience spread over a large area. She has also asked me if I am prepared to adapt the Pandemic Act so that practitioners of VVS sports can start competing. Furthermore, she has asked me if I am prepared to earmark funds for, among other things, the survival of exercise races, if an adapted pandemic law is not introduced before the summer. Let me begin by thanking the honourable Member for her commitment to sports policy issues. The fact that we have a strong sports movement that reaches out equally and not least equally to the entire population are central issues for me and the government. That is why, throughout the pandemic, we have continued to provide massive crisis support for the survival of sport, which also means that we now have a sports movement that is well prepared to start operations when the situation so permits. In addition, the Government intends to introduce so-called event support aimed at organisers planning for exercise races, for example. As I have said on several occasions, I have worked throughout the pandemic to ensure that sports activities can be carried out in a safe manner and, as soon as appropriate, be resumed at all levels, including by ensuring dialogue between the sports movement and the Public Health Authority. Madam President, I would like The Government has seen the need to regulate different types of sports activities and events differently according to what conditions they have to be organised in a safe manner. With the temporary covid-19 law we have the opportunity, which means that exercise races and audiences on, for example, team sports will be regulated differently. From 1 June, sports races and similar sports competitions can be conducted with up to 150 athletes participating at the same time. It is a long-awaited first step that enables many sports associations to arrange smaller and local exercise courses with good opportunities for the necessary anti-infection measures. When the situation improves, the ceilings will be raised and then eventually removed when the situation allows.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-563	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Since I submitted this interpellation, a lot of restrictions have changed, but I still think that a discussion and debate on this can be good. Among other things, the distinction has been made between indoor and outdoor sports, which was my first question. It is a step in the right direction, but I believe that further criticism can be made. Many in the sports movement are not satisfied, and I and many people with me get the feeling that the government does not trust in sport and that sport can arrange infectious events. There are many with me who continue to fail to understand why the government does not imitate Denmark's model or use percentage capacity in the audience. My second question was about when you can start competing in plumbing sports, i.e. road, water and forest sports. Even there, reliefs have been made – but perhaps not enough, as you have to relate to a maximum of 150 practitioners no matter how large a surface you have and how many meters you have available to keep your distance. However, let's draw some background history to understand why the restrictions hit harder on outdoor than indoor sports. In sports that are practiced on water, on the road or in the forest, there are large areas to deal with. It can be compared to football, for example, where you have a specified lawn area to play on even if you are outdoors. We now know that the corona infection spreads more easily indoors, especially in hot sports halls, but that the risk of infection is extremely limited outside – and especially when keeping distance. According to the restrictions, we should also prefer to hang out outdoors and keep our distance. The VVS sports are by definition sports where you keep distance and which you practice outdoors. Madam President, I would like I'm allowed to ride a taxi, but I'm not allowed to race in motor sports. I'm allowed to ride a bike to work, but I'm not allowed to compete. I'm also allowed to sail privately, with friends, but I'm not allowed to compete. Now the restrictions change, but they have been strange. The whole sports industry has changed. In particular, it has been solution-oriented to organise competitions under contagion-proof conditions. Many hope to organize competitions to earn the means to secure the survival of the association and thus the sport. Above all, many have hoped for more because the vaccination is in full swing and we are in a season when we can finally be outdoors without getting frost damage. In particular, the sports races have lobbied hard against us politicians and the government with examples showing how hard restrictions are hitting the sports that are practiced almost only outdoors. With today's restrictions of 8 people, but also with the proposed 150 people, one would have more space than the amusement parks have with 20 square meters per person. So the question is: why do we not trust sport and the proposals that have been put forward? You're still very locked at the roof, and it's boring.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-571	Madam President, I would like As Angelika Bengtsson says, the government has been able to decide that the new, more accurate regulatory framework will be introduced from 1 June after this intervention was submitted. I know we're all very happy about that. As I said in my answer, this is indeed to be seen as a first step. This is part of what the Public Health Authority calls Level 1. It is really about finally getting this regulation in place and thus harmonizing the regulations – making it easier for sport, culture and different types of gatherings to operate under infectious conditions during the pandemic. I have been fully aware of the difficulty for VVS sports, i.e. road, water and forest sports, to operate during the pandemic when it comes to competitions. When it comes to training activities, one can say that this type of exercise has been actively encouraged by the Public Health Agency – although not in large groups, being outdoors and moving over large areas has been encouraged. The ability to compete has first been limited by the Law of Order, as this type of competition activity moves over an area without a defined area where the audience sits. That is the reason why this is included in the Order Act and that you are looking for this type of permit to arrange a competition. As Angelika Bengtsson knows, we had this proposal in place earlier this year, but when the third wave swept across the country, the government decided on the advice of the Public Health Authority to wait with the actual introduction of these rules. It was simply because the spread of the disease was large. The vaccinations had not started, and the pressure on health care was still very high. It should certainly not be seen as the government not trusting in the sports movement; on the contrary, I have great confidence in the sports movement's ability to shoulder responsibility based on what takes place on 1 June – the first step – and, of course, also on the next steps, which I know has been prepared too carefully. I also think that the sports movement during the year has really shown how it has tried in different ways to keep children's and young people's training going. It has been possible in Sweden to a very large extent. Single competitions have also been possible for much of the year, especially for children and young people, although they have been limited. They have also tried to ensure that the training can be done in a safe way. We have had a very close dialogue with the sports movement. It is good that the sports movement also has a close dialogue with the Public Health Agency, because it ensures that the next steps can also be taken in a wise and good way. Just as Angelika Bengtsson says, the rate of vaccination is now increasing, and we see how the infection goes down. The hope is, of course, that we will be able to enter Level 2 in the not too distant future, and then the proposal is that this ceiling should be raised even further. That is, of course, desirable. It is also up to me in this House to remind you that we are still in a situation where health care is under severe pressure and that it is natural for the government to listen to the Public Health Authority when it is timing and time to take different steps when it comes to restrictions. Just a week ago, the government was able to announce that we are now spending another SEK 600 million in support of the sports movement in order to be able to get through a still tough period with severe restrictions. Now I know that the sports movement dreams of now is not crisis support but to get started and compete again, and practice fully, but we need to support the sports movement as far as possible in order for no actors to perish because of the restrictions.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-579	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. The steps developed by the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Government have three steps. I think that many would have liked step 2 to have been step 1 and therefore what will apply on 1 June, but unfortunately that is not the case. I think that's what makes you feel that the government doesn't trust sport – that the first step starts at a very low level, even though an entire sports movement has had more than a year to change. The questions that remain after the reliefs presented are: Why do you not distinguish between more sports? Those who have the opportunity to receive more, for example, when it comes to race competitions or audiences at team sports – why don't you do an extended step for them? Why are they not distinguished? Denmark, as I have mentioned before, has worked on the basis of sections in the audience. Each section has a number of 500. Depending on the location and size of the arena, you can open more or fewer sections. Why is this not an example that the government has taken and worked from? And why has the government not looked at a percentage of the audience, which many in Europe are working on? Then you could open up to even more, not least in the VVS sports, and receive more in the audience. It can also be about the number of people in the audience and the number of participants per square metre, like the amusement parks have to deal with. Throughout the pandemic, the government has stared blindly at maximum numbers, without adapting to the size of the audience or area to relate to their respective sports and practices. I think it's boring. I may think it is rather narrow-minded that the government stares blindly at this and that the government does not trust the knowledge and conversion of sport. Somewhere there must be freedom under responsibility. Why, for example, can this apply in the restaurant industry but not in sport? Let sport show that you can arrange infectious events! For example – or as a parallel – Eurovision Song Contest was organised this weekend, where thousands of people were received in an indoor arena in a safe manner. You can organise infection-proof events if you want. Let sport show that it can! It is also about people's goal to find motivation to continue to move and be active in the difficult time that we are in. Now, as you said, we adults are opening up to competitions, not just for children. This is a good thing; it is a step in the right direction. However, I and many with me would have wished for more. Having Vätternrundan, orientation race or any other competition as a goal image strengthens one's motivation to keep moving. In addition, the competitions and associations need plenty of time to switch to the next step. That is why I think it would have been good to open up even more.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-589	Madam President, I would like It is clear that competition activities are an important, or supporting, ingredient for many in Swedish sports. I know that both me and Angelika Bengtsson themselves have that kind of experience and know how this motivates small pups to get up early in the morning on a Saturday and go to football training as well as it motivates adult sports athletes who have a race as a goal for their daily training. It's very important. I am pleased that children and young people in Sweden have had the opportunity to keep up their training to a great extent – to a greater extent than many of my colleagues in Europe claim that their countries have had the opportunity to. I am also pleased that we have been able to get started with competition activities for children and now will also open up for competition activities for adults who are not elite. Then, of course, the VVS sports, which were first subject to the Order Act and are now subject to the Pandemic Act, have been affected by blunt regulations; we can probably say that. For me it has been very important to get this differentiation in place now, where we distinguish between indoor and outdoor audiences and where we distinguish the VVS sports and give them special conditions to operate. This is indeed a first step. The Government has received a report from the Public Health Agency on what the next steps could be, and the Government intends to come back on this issue. Of course, it is the case that we look at different variants of how the regulations will be able to look like in the future. Hopefully it is now a period in which we can return to normality relatively quickly, but we must, of course, prepare for different scenarios. We also know that each month is important for these activities. When we talk about this with a percentage of an arena, I think it is important that we remember that Sweden is in a situation in the pandemic, and has been for some time, where the levels of infection have been significantly higher than in many other countries. Denmark, for example, is in a different situation in the pandemic. They have also had some activities more closed and have had the opportunity to come into a different position with regard to the reopening. It is interesting – of course I follow with excitement what is happening now in Denmark and in many other countries. Angelika Bengtsson mentioned Eurovision Song Contest. This was part of a research study, and many people were admitted. It was very interesting and very gratifying, of course, to see so many in the arena. As far as percentage of an arena is concerned, we should remember that the rules currently in place will be based on the nature of the arena as the Public Health Authority imposes additional requirements through its regulations. If it says that you have the possibility to receive 500 sitting outdoors, it does not mean that any outdoor space can sneak in 500 people, but it requires that you can keep a distance between seats and the like. The same goes for indoors. If the next step is based on the Public Health Authority's ceiling, this too – how many can actually be taken in – will depend on the size of the arena. However, we will have to come back to the next steps and exactly how we see them before us. I would like to stress once again how important it is to dialogue between, in this case, the sports movement and the Public Health Agency in relation to the VVS sports, which is the focus of the interpellation. We know that children's and young people's sports there have not been able to get started at the same time as other children's and young people's sports, and it is of the utmost importance that it should now be launched on 1 June. Then both me and the sports movement long for more steps to be taken as quickly as possible.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-599	Madam President, I would like The VVS sports are – once again – by definition sports where you keep distance and sports that are practiced outdoors. In water sports such as sailing you keep more than a meter away, even when it comes to a small optimist dinghy. In road sports such as cycling and motor sports, you keep one meter away just by sitting on your bike or in your car. In forest s ports as orientation you keep distance because you start with intervals, and perhaps even more if you happen to look wrong on the map. Having said that, it is good that you open up and that the plumbing sports can start to be practiced and, above all, compete in. It is sad that the regulations have been blunt for such a long time. I believe that this is one of the reasons why many are disappointed that they have not been allowed to open up before. I think, once again, that it takes plenty of time to quickly change. It is difficult to change overnight, although I think the associations would be able to do so. Basically, it's about their survival. If the associations do not exist, they cannot arrange races and competitions, and then we cannot get involved in these sports. It would be unfortunate, not least for sport and for associations, but also for ourselves from a personal perspective. I look forward to coming reopenings. I thank you for this debate and look forward to what is to come.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-607	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank Angelika Bengtsson for the debate and for his commitment. I would also like to thank the Swedish sports movement for all the efforts made and the responsibility taken during the pandemic. Sport around the country has really changed and stood up. My focus as Minister for Sport is now, in addition to the fact that we need to put in place a re-opening plan that is as clear and transparent as possible, that we have the re-launch of sport in focus and that associations around the country have the opportunity to gather together to re-establish all the children and young people who have slipped out of sport during this period and to build something better after the pandemic. I think that for many people it has been obvious what we have missed out on this year, both training and competition opportunities for those who are active in a sport and the possibility of simply visiting a gym during the pandemic for those who would rather exercise like that but also for all of us who love sport to be able to follow it live. We all long for it to be possible again. That is why it has been important for me that we support sport through the crisis. Last year we shot at 11⁄2 billion in support of sport and now a close doubling, over 2 billion, in specifically targeted crisis support for sport. We have said that some of this should be specifically earmarked for the re-launch of the sports movement throughout the country. I know that the country's associations and clubs are now looking at what efforts are needed to reach, in particular, all the children they want to bring back to the sports movement. It is the efforts that municipalities, clubs and associations have made that so far have not seen the big breaks in the sports network in Sweden, and I am deeply grateful for that. We shall continue to support sport through the pandemic, and I am pleased that there is a broad commitment to this here in Parliament too.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-612	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me if I intend to work to ensure that the radon premium is so great that the need for it is met and the grant does not end four months into the year. I would like to begin by emphasising that the presence of radon in housing is an important issue which the government is taking on a very large scale. According to the Radiation Protection Regulation(2018:506), there must be a national action plan for the management of the long-term risks of radon in workplaces, in premises to which the public has access and in housing. Since 2018, there has therefore been a national action plan in this area. In view of the risk of radon, a number of different measures have been taken and are being taken to reduce exposure in housing. In Sweden, Boverket has set a limit value for radon of 200 becquerel per cubic metre in new buildings. The problems with radon, however, are not primarily about new buildings. Statistics from Boverket suggest that the limit value for radon content is met in almost all new buildings. A majority of these meet the requirement by a good margin. In homes and premises where radon occurs, according to the Environmental Code and the Radiation Act, there is an obligation for property owners to investigate and eliminate an inconvenience. The municipal council responsible for environmental and health protection is the supervisory authority and monitors whether there is any inconvenience to human health and may require property owners to do a radon clean-up. There is therefore a property owner's responsibility and municipal supervision for housing and premises. In 2018, the radon grant was introduced as part of a three-year investment in non-toxic housing and improved indoor environment. The Radon grant will thus end in 2021. When the grant ends, a natural consequence is that not all applications are granted in the last year, and exactly where the cut-off point becomes the determining authority. For residents in small houses there is still the possibility to receive tax reduction for labour costs for radon removal within the framework of the root deduction. In addition, energy declarations are an important instrument for making the risk visible with radon. The presence of Radon in real estate is included in the declaration. The energy declaration thus makes the buyer of a building aware of whether a measurement has been made and what the measurement showed. The Government has also commissioned Boverket to strengthen the work in 2018 – 2021 to ensure that new and existing buildings are safe and have a good indoor environment. The government is awaiting the results of that mission. At present, no further measures are envisaged in this area.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-620	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it's what we don't see or don't have enough information about something we take with a heel kick, although it may be the most dangerous thing we overlook at risk. In my view, Sweden's citizens' knowledge of the risks of radon and how to address them is far too low. It is in this context that I think we need to see the radon premium. The state shows that radon is something that we consider dangerous, and a contribution helps not only to address the real problem but also to inform people about the risks. There are companies around the country that specialize in radon. With the radon grant we give them a unique opportunity to fix but also spread knowledge about radon. In Sweden, hundreds of thousands of homes still have too high radon levels. Radon elevations are a health risk, but it is possible to clean up and eliminate this risk. The Radon grant has been very well used in recent years and has been of significant benefit to society by reducing health problems related to excessive radon levels in housing. It is also well documented in various research studies that radon increases the risk of lung cancer. In Sweden, it is estimated that about 500 people receive lung cancer each year. In order to reduce this figure, the possibility of clean-up and advice should be a couple of measures that exist every year and not just for a few years. In the budget submitted by the Government for 2021, the Government extended the radon grant by one year. The money was not set aside as much as before, and the result was that by April the money was over. This means in practice that fewer people will be able to de-ionize their homes, which increases the risk of more people suffering from lung cancer in the coming years. In fact, in the discussions that virtually all parties in the Riksdag have been involved in, it is considered across the board that the radon grant is important and a cheap money to fix something that can cause cancer. It is also a starting point for us politicians to be able to discuss other measures that pay long-term attention to the risks of the radon. With this, I would like to remind you that there is a political consensus on the benefits and needs of radon aid. It is well-lucky and good that for a few years the work has been strengthened through the radon grant from 2018 to now and by giving Boverket a mission to strengthen the work. However, I am asked over the gap that now becomes from the end of the radon grant until Boverket's accounting and proposals and possible implementations that need to be made in order for us to get other measures started in order for the radon to be able to reduce in Sweden. The gap in time means that some work fails, and no visible action is available from the state in this part. My questions will therefore be: Should funds not be made available so that all applications received in 2021 can actually be processed? And what happens to the errands that have come in after the money has run out? They just disappear? Should the radon premium not be extended so long that other measures are available, i.e. from 2021 to 2022?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-630	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, people spend on average 90 percent of their time indoors. The indoor environment is in this way the most important environment for humans, and indoor air quality is of great importance for public health. The issue of a good indoor environment for people is therefore very important for the government. That is why the government introduced the radon grant in 2018, and we have seen that it has been useful. However, the radon contribution is not the only measure taken by the government to prevent harmful radon concentrations in buildings, but many efforts are underway to reduce radon levels in the indoor environment. The action plan, which I mentioned in my interpellation response, is solidly worked out. It is the Swedish Work Environment Authority, Boverket, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Food Safety Agency and others who have collaborated to develop it. The objective of the action plan is to ensure targeted and long-term efforts to reduce the exposure of the population to radon. I am happy to talk more, both with the honourable Member and with other interested parties, about how we can achieve the strategies and proposals contained in the action plan. As far as small houses are concerned, I would like to emphasise the weight of the root deduction. The deduction may entail significant reductions in the cost of working for radon removal. The reduction can be the difference between whether or not a owner of a small house decides to radonsanate their dwelling, and that possibility remains without the radon allowance. Finally, I would also like to pick up a mission again that the government has given to Boverket to strengthen the work to ensure that new and existing buildings are safe and have a good indoor environment. I might add that I am eagerly awaiting the final report of that mission. But I can already say that an increased number of radon measurements will be required, so that homes and premises with elevated radon levels are identified. We will have to keep working on this. On this basis, even more measures can be implemented to reduce radon concentrations where necessary.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-635	Madam President, I would like The Minister and I are probably quite in agreement on the problem and that we need to do as much as possible in order to have a good indoor environment. However, we have a slightly different view of the usefulness of the radon grant. I think it has given house owners the opportunity to learn about the radon, how to handle it and what measures can be taken to reduce the radon in their own home. Without a grant, reference is made to the municipal control unit for the environment and health. Unfortunately, this does not work in all of Sweden. If you live in your house for a long time without selling, you are left for your own knowledge acquisition without any help. I believe that the radon grant has given small house owners both information and action. It is true that you can use root for the cost of work. But can you imagine that the measurements can also be included in the root? Can one imagine that root can also be used for more parts in radon removal, i.e. that root changes and is amplified, precisely because radon is so dangerous? I did not really get an answer as to what will happen to the applications made after the radon grant money has run out. Are they just to be discarded? I can see that there is a need. People who have applied for radon subsidies want to do these measures. Is it possible for those applying for radon grants in 2021 to receive them? Or does the Minister think that the money that was there was and now there will be nothing more?
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-640	Madam President, I would like The grant has been announced for three years and is phased out during the year. This means that the authority responsible for the payments also determines where the cut-off limit goes. Let me emphasise that, according to the Environmental Code, property owners have a responsibility to investigate and eliminate an inconvenience. For dwellings with radon there is a property owner's responsibility and municipal supervision. Having said that, I would also like to stress how important it is for the government to deal with harmful radon concentrations in buildings. Many connections between indoor air and health are known, such as the connection between radon and lung cancer. The factors that can affect the radon content of buildings are many, including how high the radon content is in the ground air, if the ground lets air through, if the base of the house is leaky, pressure difference between indoor and outdoor air and ventilation. This is probably quite a lot of people aware of, but the government conducted a radon campaign in 2019 to get to what I think the honourable Member is going after: that more people should be aware of the health risks and thus also be able to assume their responsibilities as property owners. I agree that there is broad agreement in Parliament on this. We are all aware of the importance of reducing the exposure of the population to radon. Furthermore, the Member's party, the Christian Democrats, has a shadow budget which in this area is no different from that of the government. So I am not sure that there is a political battle or conflict here. Rather, we must see that there are many measures that are necessary to work with. For example, a selection in the broad range of actions set out in the Radon NAP is to organise formalised cooperation on radon between the relevant authorities under the authority of the Radiation Safety Authority, with the task of planning and monitoring efforts to implement the strategies and activities identified in the Action Plan. It is also a question of coordinating the information provided by the authorities on radon and ensuring that comprehensive comprehensive information is readily available in order to achieve precisely the dissemination of knowledge that the honourable Member is asking for. It is also a question of identifying the distribution of radon concentrations in homes and workplaces, of taking stock of workplaces with the greatest risk of high radon concentrations, and of monitoring and monitoring radon measurements in workplaces. It is also important to collaborate on radon with the Nordic countries in particular, but also in other international contexts, in order to build knowledge and convey it to property owners where radon removal may be relevant. It is not just one of these measures or just the root deduction that will bring us closer to the objectives of reducing the exposure of the population to radon, but it is all these measures together. The government will continue to hold in and steer towards existing targets.
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-651	Madam President, I would like I am looking for both parts, that is to say that people should become aware of the risk and that the problems should be addressed. I have no objection to other measures being taken that can help to draw attention to the problem of radon and to remedy it. I think we are mistaken if we think that the radon premium is only about these petty millions. For me, the radon grant is part of this palette that you cannot be without. I am not looking for a political battle, because we all agree that the radon contribution has been good. However, there can be a political battle if it cannot continue, i.e. if the applications that exist are simply thrown into the trash basket. I don't want people's desire to do the right thing just tossed in the trash, but to get the contribution they thought would be available throughout 2021. I think most parties in the Swedish parliament thought that the money would last all year, but now they ended already in April. We must see that every measure plays a role, and I believe that the possibility for small house owners to apply for radon grants is very important. I interpret the Minister's reply as meaning that all applications after the end of April will be thrown into the trash can. That's too bad. I think it is important that we help citizens with both information and actual action. Before you can use radon for clean-up, you have to measure and see if you have problems with radon in your property. This can be noted with information. Then the radon contribution is important, so think again!
i-18f06ceb6ff968c8-657	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude the debate by thanking the honourable Member for raising an important issue, and I note, as I said, that the Government and the Christian Democrats have presented equally obedient budgets on this issue. In 2018, a three-year investment in non-toxic housing and improved indoor environment began. The Radon grant was part of this venture. A natural consequence is that not all applications are granted in the last year and that it is up to the determining authority to decide when the breakpoint will be. The money involved has long been known. This does not mean that the government stops caring about non-toxic housing and improved indoor environments. Nor do I think that the Christian Democrats are signaling this with their shadow budget. This was a three-year contribution, and we need to continue with a variety of measures. The issue of a good indoor environment will continue to be important to us, the Christian Democrats and certainly other parliamentary parties. The many efforts currently under way to reduce radon levels in the indoor environment will be evaluated and monitored by the responsible authority. The government will continue to monitor this work for public health very closely and for a long time to come.
