i-2jSnLCQHYrG4VKexKuxFmV	During the plenary session on 17 June, Katja Nyberg (SD) filed a motion of censure on Prime Minister Stefan Löfven (S). The job was assisted by at least 35 members, and it was therefore postponed for the first time. The profession was postponed again on Friday. The case will now be brought to the fore. Firstly, an explanation of vote is given.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-0	Mr President, I would like to In accordance with the Constitution, Parliament is to test whether it has confidence in the current government. It is a self-evident part of our democracy and our parliamentary statehood. This year it is 100 years since Sweden became a full democracy for both women and men. It's an anniversary to be proud of. My own party The Liberals were born from the Swedish suffrage movement. I hear some call today's vote political theatre. They are quite right to think so. But it is an inalienable part of democracy that the country's elected parliament can at any time test confidence in the Prime Minister and thus the government. Mr President, I would like to In a complicated parliamentary situation, everyone has a great responsibility. Today's Parliament has the composition of voters decided on 2018. Voters' decisions shall be respected. But regardless of the political situation in January 2019 or June 2021, the Liberals' mission is one and the same: to achieve as much liberal social change as possible, to increase freedom for the most vulnerable and to ensure that Sweden becomes the country of opportunity for all. Liberals believe that agreements should be kept. We stand by our word. The current government was launched by the Liberals to implement a reform agenda with a strong liberal character for a limited period. It is about reforms for the school with a clear focus on knowledge, improved integration and intensified work against all forms of honour-related violence and oppression. We also have higher ambitions in climate policy. These are tax reductions that make it more worthwhile to work and to modernise outdated labour and housing market rules, which create locks instead of openings and security. All of this and much more are parts of the agreement that formed the basis for the government's accession in January 2019. The Liberals honour, as I said, agreements entered into. We are also clear that our course and direction for the future are different. The agreement entered into shall be completed and therefore settled in an orderly manner during this term of office. However, important societal reforms for jobs, law enforcement and stable and climate-neutral energy supply are still ahead of us. We are convinced, and have declared in the past, that this in the next term requires a bourgeois government. Mr President, I would like to The position of the Liberals is therefore as follows: As long as the present government implements the reforms in the way agreed by the four contractual parties, we are fulfilling our part of the agreement. If the government had violated the agreements entered into in the so-called January agreement, the Liberals would have found that the agreement had fallen. The Liberals are therefore not dismissing a government because it implements agreements that the Liberals are behind. That is why, as on 18 January 2019, the Liberals are going to press yellow today.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-8	Mr President, I would like to An unholy coalition of the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats are coming together to convict the government and the January Agreement. Four parties that are deeply divided about housing policy and renting as well as the political orientation of Sweden and which government Sweden should have agreed on one thing, namely what they are against. For various party-tactical reasons, they have called for censure on the government but have no common plan at all on what will happen thereafter. We from the Center Party, together with the other parties behind the January Agreement, have made an effort to find constructive solutions in the situation that has arisen. Sweden is in great need of reforms to increase housing construction, reduce housing shortages throughout the country and develop more rental apartments. Abstaining action and making the necessary changes when we have hundreds of thousands of people in housing queues and queues that are up to ten years old in their places would be irresponsible. But the path to reform can be different. We have good experience of working on labour law and the conversion agreements, where the social partners have come up with new solutions for a labour market that is both more flexible and more secure. We want to give the housing market partners the same opportunity to agree on how the rental model in new construction can be designed. That agreement may be reached by 1 September, the parties to the January Agreement have undertaken to implement it. However, the Left Party immediately rejected this proposal yesterday, despite the fact that it was one of their two main options that they put forward only a few days earlier. Political tactics and positioning were far more important than keeping the line of the Left Party. Today's unholy coalition shows the concern of power to the outer edges, and in this case they have also united and met in their eagerness to create political uncertainty. During this term of office, cooperation between these two outlying parties has led to an end to reduced taxes on jobs and businesses, to a halt to the reform of the Public Employment Service, to a halt to reforms for increased housing construction and to the devolution of the government – in the midst of a pandemic and without any consensus on any alternative to new government. And it is not the Center Party that has given this power to the Swedish Democrats or Left Party. It is other parties that support this action and thus also have to take responsibility for the consequences. For the Center Party it is becoming increasingly clear that Sweden needs more of a collection in the middle. Sweden needs a government that is not only dependent on the mood swings of the outer edges. More parties need to put substance politics, responsibility for Sweden and solutions for people's everyday lives before political games. More people need to be prepared to contribute constructively. After a long government formation in 2018, we managed to negotiate with four parties behind the January agreement for a common direction with important political reforms for the environment, jobs and rural areas. We did it through a collection across the traditional bloc boundaries. It was lengthy negotiations, difficult compromises and constructive talks to finally give Sweden a government with a liberal reform agenda without being dependent on the Swedish Democrats. The Centre Party is still in favour of the January Agreement, and we are therefore abstaining in today's vote. The Centre Party's parliamentary group will print yellow in today's vote.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-16	Mr President, I would like to Arrogance against the will of the people is not responsibility. In the Parliamentary elections, a majority of the Swedish people voted for parties that went to elections to replace the Social Democratic Government. They said they wanted to see a different leadership from Stefan Lövven. But through political games and gusts, defamation and horse-trading, agreements and additional notes and by allowing the foundation of the kingdom's rule to become a matter of banal bazaar trade, the Löfven managed to kick the consequences of their lack of support in front of them for a little longer, but no longer than here. Now we have a government crisis in the final stages of a pandemic and a difficult economic situation. Stefan Löfven and his partner parties are fully responsible for this. They made a deal with each other that they knew they couldn't keep. They chose the line that they will have to solve in the future, and now the future is here. The irresponsibility has caught up with the January parties. Therefore, the most responsible thing we can do at this time is to carry out what we promised the electorate, to do what we can to enable a new bourgeois government to take office. The conditions for this already exist in this Parliament. In autumn 2018, the KD-M budget won the greatest support in the Chamber, and the same basis could pilot a budget through the Riksdag in autumn 2021. Mr President, I would like to Our raison d'être as a party rests in giving a voice to those in our society who otherwise have no voice. That is why today's decision is not for us about where we stand in the disagreements about an individual reform proposal. Instead, it is about the overlooked Swedes, that is, all those who have been affected by Stefan Lövven's lack of leadership that the January agreement left behind and who need a new government. We Christian Democrats will take our vote to give a vote to them, to all those overlooked who are waiting in the care queues, who are stuck in the county council bureaucracy and who want a government that does what is necessary to get Swedish health care in order, to all those overlooked or worried about apparent criminality and who want a government that does what is necessary to restore security and to give victims redress, to the 500 000 who are in vain looking for jobs. We let our voice give a voice to our elderly who want to feel the security of knowing that there will be a place in the retirement home, to all those who wonder what will happen to our jobs and welfare without a weather-independent energy supply, to Sweden's families with children and to all those who live in the Swedish heart country – our small and medium-sized cities and our countryside, which the government parties want to take away from both freedom and the future. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to address all the Swedes who are outside this House. We promised in the election to do what we can to give Sweden a new leadership, to remove Stefan Löfven and seek a new way forward. We have been against this government from the beginning, and we warned that this is where Sweden would end up if it took office. And we have said that you have to be able to talk to everyone. We have also said that if there is an opportunity, we will remove the government, and today we are delivering that electoral promise. My hope is that today we can take a first step away from the split and prestige thinking of the January parties, that we can take a first step towards the goal of bringing the country together, that we can create a leadership that wants us to come together to build Sweden strong. I have had the opportunity to travel a lot during the years I have been a party leader – for obvious reasons not during the past year. During those years I have seen many shortcomings in Swedish society, but I have not seen any shortcomings in the Swedish people. No one should doubt our ability to overcome major problems together. We took this cold and barren piece of soil in northern Europe, and together we created prosperity and a welfare society. We lack none of what is required, none of what we need in order to build a better tomorrow, nothing but action, courage and a new leadership. Together we can build a Sweden that works, a Sweden you can trust. Let today be the first step on that journey.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-26	Mr President, I would like to Regardless of how the forthcoming vote will end, party leaders from a majority of the Swedish people's representatives have declared that they no longer have confidence in the Prime Minister. It therefore seems to me that we could agree that the destructive order in which the issues have consistently been obscured in favour of clean sands has been thrown where it belongs, namely on the rubbish heap of history. It would also be attractive, Mr President, if it could be left on the pile of rubbish. We would then be better able to manage the voter's confidence. For example, a fairly large majority of Members of Parliament are in favour of doing something about pensions. But since Prime Minister Stefan Löfven refuses to talk to the Swedish Democrats, nothing happens. These are examples of abuses of voters' confidence. We Swedish democrats have very little in common with the Left Party of Nooshi Dadgostar. It hardly has to be said. But if you look beyond this, you can see that the Left Party stands up for its voters from its perspective and does not allow itself to be fooled by Social Democratic power games. I think that such a quality is worthy of honour, even when it is one's opponent who wears it. We in here represent the Swedish people. It would probably have been possible to find solutions that better represent the wishes of the electorate if the government had chosen to try to gather the Riksdag to deal with crime, unemployment, care queues, segregation and otherwise a far too long list of fatal failures. Mr President, I would like to The confidence of the Swedish democrats in Stefan Löfven remains unchanged. It's nonexistent. Recent events must reasonably have been an eye-opener for a great many voters. This government is not only harmful politically. It is also historically weak. It is totally incapable of solving the problems faced by the citizens of our country in their daily lives. The government and its support parties really only agree on one thing, and that is that they are all against the Swedish Democrats. It is not a very solid foundation if you want to build long-term cooperation. The basis of the January Agreement is not political agreement or even a desire for cooperation. On the surface, the vote today is about Parliament's confidence in Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. For me and the Swedish Democrats, it is about the whole government and about the whole January agreement that the government governs. This is a historically weak government based on blind aversion to my party rather than common visions and constructive ideas to face all the extremely serious problems that Sweden is facing. It's a government that should never have taken office. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Democrats are pressing the green button. We vote in favour – yes to an opportunity for a new start and yes to another, new road for Sweden.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-33	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country with enormous opportunities. If we gather ourselves together and do what is necessary, we can face a hopeful future. Instead, discouragement is now growing in line with the problems. We are gathered here today because Parliament believes that the Prime Minister and his government have failed in the task of leading the country. The Moderates voted against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister when he took office. We opposed and have never been part of the January agreement. A country can't be ruled on ultimatum about who gets to talk to who. If one quarter of the country's voters are excluded from all influence, then polarisation and mistrust between people and between parties are created. I believe the opposite. Let people and parties think differently, but discuss straight and honest with each other! This government should never have taken up office because it is not based on a common idea or a common direction of travel. On the contrary, it is based on irreconcilable promises and mutual threats. Sooner or later, the charade would be revealed. Now that's the moment. Two and a half years ago in this House, I said that the government will either fall because it is holding back its agreement or falling because it is not holding on to its agreement. It is inevitable when you make two different promises and have to break one, when you refuse to take in what parliamentary reality actually looks like. Now that reality has caught up with the January parties. Ultimately, it is always the Prime Minister's responsibility to secure the government's foundation in the Riksdag. He has now failed to do so. For the last seven years, Sweden has lacked leadership. When we need political solutions, we have been hit by political stalemate. When we needed action, we had paralysis. But this isn't a law of nature. That's because we have a government constellation that disagrees about most of it – except for the Social Democrats to rule. The result is a political failure of historical dimensions. Sweden beats the European record in killings, and in recent years sexual crimes and robbery against children have more than doubled. Never before have so many been long-term unemployed, while 675 000 foreign born of working age live on benefits and are not self-sufficient. Outsiders are growing. Sweden cannot meet its own climate targets. The government is phasing out clean and efficient nuclear power while we have an almost unimaginable shortage of electricity – now soon again. Stefan Löfven has not managed to gather support for his government's policy either. Never before has Parliament agreed on so many initiatives that simply run over the government. What we see is a renaissance of Swedish parliamentarism – because in Sweden it is the parliament that decides and the government that obeys, not the other way round. This means that a minority government must be able to anchor its policy in parliament or accept defeat. This isn't news. The new thing is that we have a government that can't handle it. During this term of office, the Moderates have repeatedly gathered this Parliament for political reform. We have worked with all parties in all Parliament's committees. That's how you get something done, namely, and that's how you think about yourself being safe in your own direction. It is my conviction that a good government must be based on what it is for, not what it is against. I want to trade distrust for trust, polarization for cooperation and division for unity. When we think alike, we do the same. When we think differently, we do different things. Let us respect all the voters in the country, and let us distinguish between the thing and the person! Today's vote of censure is about Parliament's confidence in the Prime Minister, but it is also about maintaining respect for our country's parliamentary democracy. Mr President, I would like to The moderate parliamentary group does not have confidence in Stefan Löfven as Sweden's Prime Minister. We will support today's motion of censure.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-49	Mr President, I would like to I have never supported or even tolerated a Prime Minister elected under the January Agreement. It was a great betrayal of the Left Party to agree to release a government which, on certain issues, pursued a right-wing policy which the government of Reinfeldt could never have conducted. Today, the situation is different. The important issue of market rents has been transformed into a game of power where the Swedish Democrats have taken the initiative and where the other right takes a happy opportunity to remove the Prime Minister, regardless of the consequences. When I belonged to the Left Party, there was a written anti-racist strategy that said that the party would never support proposals put forward by SD. That strategy has been abandoned by the party board after I left the Left Party, so that Members can vote as in today's vote. If SD had been in charge, I might not have been allowed to stand here, and maybe Nooshi Dadgostar would not. It is not my vote that will decide the vote today. However, if we are faced with a formation of government with new presidential rounds, it may well be. Then everyone who voted for me should know that I will never support SD's initiative, especially in such powerful games. That is why I shall abstain in today's vote.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-54	Mr President, I would like to In just over a year there will be elections to Parliament, regions and municipalities. It is a day when the Swedish people will have to decide who will represent us in the democratic assemblies. I am prepared to take the debate with the voters in the streets and squares during the election process, both on market rents and, of course, on all other issues – whether that election movement will take place next year or already this year. We're not gonna have any market rents. Market rents are also not what we are considering today, although the Left Party is keen to do so. We're here because the Left Party wants to. Yesterday, parties to the January Agreement proposed that the parties to the housing market should negotiate the rental model in new production. The pattern is the negotiations between the social partners on employment security and transition. If tenants, public utilities and private property owners reach an agreement, the Government shall make a proposal in accordance with that line. This is what the Left Party has previously demanded. Nevertheless, we are meeting here today, and I regret that. If the motion of censure is approved, the door to a solution negotiated by the parties will be closed. The Left Party has bent its arm with the right-wing conservative bloc, thereby forming an unholy alliance that can convict the Prime Minister because of an issue on which the parties do not agree among themselves. One can think about what an alternative government, not led by Stefan Löfven, would look like. The parties voting to convict the government will be responsible for our response in this respect, because they themselves do not form the basis for a new government. The coalition of the Left Party, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats lack a plan for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We're still in the middle of a pandemic. Around the country, tremendous efforts are being made to care for the sick, to give much-needed leave to health workers, to tackle the challenges of the labour market and to gradually restart society. People in Sweden look forward to midsummer and brighter times. They are not looking forward to a political crisis. We politicians have an election result to manage. People expect us to do it. One might think that the Left Party should have strong reasons to exploit the strongest tools of parliamentarism and provoke a political crisis. The reason for such a drastic measure should be crystal clear, but it is not. The Left Party claims that the government has put forward proposals for the introduction of market rents. That statement certainly deserves to be examined. The government has not put forward any proposal, point– either on market rents or on free renting for new apartments. The use of the censure weapon against the Prime Minister to protest an investigative report is completely unreasonable. Today's keystrokes open up uncertainty and unnecessary speculation about Sweden's future. This is of no benefit to tenants, pensioners, long-term ills, students, construction workers, health workers or any other community group. The government needs to have the opportunity to continue its work for jobs, for a stronger welfare, for more police officers, for sharper measures against men's violence against women and for a fair climate transition. Mr President, I would like to In the serious situation we find ourselves in, we Social Democrats are taking responsibility for the future. We act for the good of Sweden. The Socialist parliamentary group is, of course, behind Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and his government, and we are of course voting against it in today's vote.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-66	Mr President, Members of the Swedish Parliament and all of you around our country who are following this today! We have ended up in this situation because pride and unreasonableness have prevailed over the stability of the country and the political will for compromise. I regret that. Politics should be better able. The fact that the Left Party compromised most during this term of office has probably not escaped anyone. When the government took office in January 2019, this was based on the mandate of five parties: the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the Liberal Party and the Left Party. Four of these parties agreed to shut out the fifth party, the Left Party. Our more than half a million voters were shut out of the negotiating room, where the 73 paragraphs of the so-called January Agreement were developed – this despite the fact that the Left Party's mandate was required for the government to take office and for the agreement to have any meaning. Yet in the Left Party we chose to release Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. It wasn't an easy decision, but we did. It is not possible to be unreasonable in a difficult parliamentary situation. But we already said then that a limit for us is at the point of market rents and increased rents. We said: We release the government, but market rents cannot be carried out; then the government loses our trust. We have done something that is perceived as unusual in politics: stand by our word. This seems to have surprised the government's representatives in recent days. They seem surprised that a party acts on the basis of what has been promised to the voters and 3 million tenants. It is difficult to see any other explanation why the Prime Minister, as a government founder, has not ensured that he has secured his government base on an issue in which he has known the actual parliamentary conditions for two and a half years. Mr President, I would like to This is what another Prime Minister, Tage Erlander, wrote in 1962.There are many tasks that are too great for the individual to cope with on his own, but which can be solved if we join forces. Individuals build organizations to assert their interests on the basis of collaboration, they need the support of a strong and powerful society to protect... security and... freedom. ..................................................... Our country is made up of hardworking people in trade unions, tenant associations and in the entire Swedish People's Movement. We have gone from being Europe's poorest country to being one of the richest in the world, where strong social partners and the housing market are negotiating with each other because it is the employees and tenants who know best and should have the power to decide the job and the home. I'm not historyless. I know what social democracy has meant to Sweden in terms of the strong state housing policy, where the rent was reasonable and the standard high. It is also a policy that has meant a lot to me personally and to my possibilities in life. That's how Sweden should be. It is something worth developing, not dismantling. However, as a political party with government power, the Social Democrats today seem to have left all their ideals in this area too. We left-wingers will not help dismantle the Swedish folk house, which is the heart of our country – the Swedish model, which built the country and builds it every day. It has built away the poor neighborhood and given children to nurses, construction workers, and shop assistants a safe home to grow up in. That is what this vote is about. The government has clearly stated that it intends to implement the proposal on free renting in new production, i.e. market rents. It would be a change of system in Sweden. But if Stefan Löfven and Annie Lööf want to carry out market rents, it will not be in my name and not in the name of the Left Party. What we are doing today is not done with an easy hand. We have done everything we could to resolve this situation, but when no one else has wanted to contribute to a solution, we stand here at last, and then we keep what we have promised. It is not the Left Party that has abandoned the Social Democratic Government. It is the Social Democratic Government that has abandoned the Left Party and the Swedish people. In such a situation, it is our responsibility as a party on the part of employees and tenants to do what we have said. That is why today the Left Party will vote in favour of the motion of censure on the Prime Minister. Now begins a new and intense time. And let me be clear: the Left Party will never release a right-wing nationalist government. We in the Left Party will always be constructive, willing to compromise and find solutions, but we also stand by our word. There must be someone standing up for tenants and for the Swedish model.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-80	Mr President, I would like to We'll meet here in the middle of an ongoing pandemic. Four parties want to convict the government – not because the government has put forward a proposal that these parties jointly dislike, and not because they have a common idea of who will rule Sweden or what policy a future government will pursue. They only agree on one thing: to say no to Stefan Löfven. We all remember autumn 2018. It was a record-long formation of government in which presidential rounds replaced each other. We remember how the Moderates, SD and KD voted for the total slaughter of the environmental and climate policy that we in the Green Party had built up for four years in government. Unemployed people were affected when the Arbetsförmedlingen was mutilated, and the work against prostitution and men's violence against women was going in the trash along with our investment aid to build more climate-smart rentals with reasonable rent – all without a shred of impact assessment. Then Kristersson's promise to Hédi Fried to never give SD influence. Now his party and SD are a right-wing conservative government option together. Around Europe and the world we see right-wing conservative, racist and populist forces moving forward their positions. They question the principles of the rule of law, dismantle the independence of the media and the judiciary, and restrict the rights of LGBTI people, women and minorities. When bourgeois parties in country after country let these forces into the table of power, we showed another way. It was possible through the agreement between the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals. The Green Party is therefore behind the January agreement, which has enabled the government to pursue a strong and offensive policy for climate change, for the environment, for jobs, for health care, for gender equality and for a safer Sweden. Among the points that we in the Green Party have negotiated are major investment in education and in the development of the whole country through a green industrial transition where steel without coal is currently becoming a reality. We secured large resources for the protection of valuable nature and biodiversity at a time when mass extinction is at hand. We promised an expanded infrastructure from Norrbotniabanan to new high-speed rail lines down to Malmö – for a country that holds together and a country that shows solidarity between people. There are points that others have negotiated that we think are good and some points that we in the Green Party strongly dislike. This includes paragraph 44, which we are dealing with today. The environmental party's housing policy is based on completely different visions. In recent years with environmental housing ministers, housing construction has increased sharply. In 2020, more than twice as many rental apartments were completed as in 2014. 60 000 homes have been started in the last year, many of them with investment aid that keeps the rents down. We want to continue to develop a socially sustainable housing policy so that everyone who needs a home will have a safe housing situation at a reasonable cost. Market rents are not the way there, and that is why we have also promised not to introduce market rents. The Green Party wants to see responsibility in politics and not locked up positions that can drive Sweden into political chaos. Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party want Sweden to be a strong voice at the climate summit in Glasgow and that the historic 40-point programme against men's violence against women presented recently by Minister for Gender Equality Märta Stenevi becomes a reality. We want to secure the aid at 1% of BNI and that Sweden gets a green start after the pandemic. We want to protect democratic rights and freedoms, an independent public service, free media throughout Sweden and free culture. The Green Party wants to increase equality, not to back down, and to secure LGBTI people's rights, minority rights. The Green Party wants a government that continues to negotiate an offensive climate policy in the EU. And the Green Party wants to realise this government's vision of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. That is why we will vote against the censure on Stefan Löfven.
i-YNKve7XMG6KTLAmUsWsZgk	The President noted that more than half of Parliament's members had voted in favour, and the House had therefore approved the motion of censure on Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. According to 6th chapter. The Prime Minister would not be dismissed if the government decided, within a week of the motion of censure, to extra elections to the Riksdag. If the government did not take such a decision within the prescribed time, the President would dismiss the Prime Minister and other ministers.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-97	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. Before losing my mind, I would like to support the proposal in the report, except in the part where we have a reservation. I therefore support reservation number 6. For me and the Green Party, the issue of making family policy gender neutral and thus strengthening the rights of all families has long been important. Today, therefore, I am both proud and pleased that a majority in the Civil Committee supports the Government's legislative proposals and implements several of the proposals from the investigation that our Minister Åsa Lindhagen made sure that the Government appointed. Indeed, all parties except the Swedish Democrats are in favour of modernising the rules of family policy, Madam President. Madam President, I would like It has not escaped anyone, however, that, just before this debate, something historic happened in the Swedish parliament and in Sweden: a majority of the Members of our Parliament voted a little while ago in favour of a motion of censure on Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. It therefore feels very strange, and also emotional, to stand here and debate today. What lies ahead is time, but I can see that we still have a great deal to do in the area of family law and in terms of strengthening the rights of LGBTI people. I do not really see that a right-wing conservative government would want to push this policy through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Today's debate on the government proposal is only one step along the way, and the legislative changes we are debating – and supported by a majority of the committee – will enter into force on 1 January 2022. Madam President, I would like to give a brief explanation of the changes to the law. At the birth of a child, parenthood should be presumed in more cases than today, i.e. taken for granted. This leads to gender-neutral and equal regulation. Confirmation of parenthood shall be simplified so that unmarried parents who are of age and registered in Sweden shall be able to digitally confirm a parenthood after the child's birth, without the involvement of the social welfare board. The provisions on paternity studies should be modernised in such a way as to make them technologically neutral. Specific rules on forensic genetic examination using the tissue of a deceased man shall also be introduced. Madam President, I would like The committee also proposes an announcement in which the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have a common reservation. It is reservation number 6, which I proposed to approve earlier. The proposed announcement is about inviting the government to come back with a bill that will allow unmarried parents to digitally confirm parenthood even before the child's birth. We do not reserve ourselves because we are opposed to the principle, but because we see that the changes that are now taking place with regard to digital confirmation of parenthood should be evaluated before we go further in making this possible even before the birth of the child. However, we do not rule out the possibility of this being considered in the future. Finally, Madam President, I would like to stress the importance of creating a gender-neutral parental policy. This is an issue that affects many parents in Sweden today. This law is an important step to take for a more equal Sweden, where a parent's relationship with the child is not conditional on gender identity or love relationship.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-109	Madam President, I would like 359 days – so long it took my friend to be considered guardian of his own child. She and her wife had children with the help of a friend, as a donor, which finally worked after a lot of hard work. For a year she could not get to the child's side of 1177, which the donor could have done if he had wanted to. She couldn't make appointments at the BVC or see the baby's medical records. She was completely neglected as a parent when it came to such things. She has told us that the process of becoming the legal parent of her own child in a marriage was very difficult. They searched online for how it could be done, but when you google adoption is all about two heterosexuals who adopt a child from another country. It was difficult to know who and where different decisions would be made and how the whole process is going to be done in general. They felt that the information was lacking all the way. When it was finally time to sign the papers, the form was designed for a mother and a father. In the middle of this, there was this little guy who had two parents who loved him and, of course, still do. However, one had no legal connection. Finally, we are making the presumption of parenthood gender neutral, so that all children with married parents are treated equally. For me, the biggest benefit of the report we are debating now is that if the mother is married or a registered partner with a woman, that woman should automatically be seen as the parent of the child. The same shall apply to paternity or maternity of married couples where one or both spouses have corrected their sex. I know you're a lot of people out there who've been fighting for this for a long time, and now it's almost there. The legislative changes that we are debating today are due to come into force on 1 January 2022, so after this – probably – clubbing tomorrow, it will still be a little while before they come into force. The second thing I want to talk about is the simplification of the determination of parenthood, which should now be possible digitally if the parents are not married at the birth of the child. They have so far had to go to their social services and in an exciting little process attest to who the child's parents are, but now it becomes a new order. Instead, this should be confirmed digitally by bank ID to the Swedish Tax Agency from the moment the child is born and 14 days later. We believe that this makes things much easier for both parents and social services. It also allows children of unmarried parents to have their two parents established much faster than today. The committee is not entirely united on all the issues dealt with in this report, on the basis of the proposal which has the most complicated name, but I am very pleased that in large and important parts there is a great deal of consensus. One area where motions have been written applies to the so-called lifting rules. I understand exactly why motions have been written about this. That is also why an investigation has already been set up in this area; it was set up in December. The investigation is called Parental law for all, and it will be completed next summer. The investigation has a broad mandate to review the lifting rules in order for them to keep up with the development of society and weigh all interests against each other on this rather complicated issue. The goal is for the whole thing to be predictable and legally secure and based on the best interests of the child. I think that is a better position than now, as some of the sportsmen would rather point out, what precise changes to make in this matter. In this matter, as Emma Hult told us, we have a reservation. It is about the fact that we believe that the changes we are now making to digital confirmation of parenthood need to be evaluated before any consideration is given to the question of the confirmation of parenthood prior to the birth of the child.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-121	Madam President, I would like We Moderates obviously support all our reservations, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 3. Madam President, I would like Having children is probably the finest thing we experience in our lives. At least that's the nicest thing I've ever experienced. Children make our lives richer and give hope for the future. Then it is also of the utmost importance that the world they are born into gives them the security they need to grow up and live their lives. It is our job to ensure that the legislation that provides security and predictability is consistent with the society in which we live. Many of the legislative proposals we are debating here today are absolutely steps in the right direction. They are proposals that make legislation gender neutral and more equal. The presumption of paternity becomes a presumption of parenthood and equates two married women who have children with a heterosexual couple. The mother who has not carried the child automatically becomes the legal parent of her child with today's proposal. This is very good. It gives the child security, and it reflects the society we live in. The problem, however, is that the law on how and when a parenthood can be lifted has not been associated with development. In short, parenthood can be cancelled if it turns out that a husband other than the spouse is likely to be the father of the child, if the child has been created by an insemination that the spouse has not approved or if the insemination has been done at home, abroad or in a clinic that has not been approved. Most children in heterosexual relationships do not come about by insemination. The rules of procedure exist to protect the weaker party in cases where it becomes wrong. In the case of two married women who have children, insemination is normal. As long as it happens in an approved clinic, that's one thing. However, if women choose a different route, they will be out of bounds, and neither parents nor children will be protected by legislation. For a child who has come into the world via a home invasion, the presumption rules do not apply, but if the parents are married, the presumption rules will come in unless they themselves inform about the birth of the child. Would the latter — perhaps many years later — reveal how the child became a child's parenthood, and the child loses a legal parent. This, Madam President, is not in the best interests of the child. The government wants to address this with information efforts. It is recognised that this is a potential problem and that the lifting rules are not adapted to the current situation of families. There is an ongoing study to review how legislation should be adapted to present-day family constellations. The investigation will make a proposal by next summer. It is good that the regulatory framework is reviewed; as it is now, many children are at risk of losing a legal parent. Madam President, I would like It is therefore strange that the government is now deciding on legislation which it itself says is out-of-date. If it is already recognised that the lifting rules for the same-sex couples group are not working, the government should wait to introduce the regulatory framework until the investigation presents its proposal. We believe that the government must urgently come back to Parliament with modern and effective lifting rules that are in the best interests of the child. The child's best interests are that the two who initially take on parenthood also remain the child's parents. Madam President, I would like Being a parent is wonderful, and we don't often go around thinking about how parenting is regulated legally. But it is a lot of law, and it must also be for the safety of the child and the parents. Our responsibilities as parents are great, and our responsibilities and rights as parents are many. The presumption rules say that two married parents are also legal parents. If they are not married, but only cohabiting couples do not apply. We Moderates are of the opinion that the presumption rules should also apply to these parents and these children. The opportunity for cohabiting couples is to report their parenthood to the social services, which then determines parenthood. This is perceived by many as difficult. It is therefore welcome that the process is now being simplified so that the notification can be made digitally. But the government's proposal is that this should first be done after the baby has been born. We want this opportunity to exist even before the baby's birth, so that it is clear that it is precisely this mother and mother or mother and father who are the child's parents when they welcome the new life at the BB. We have previously addressed an announcement to the government to make such a proposal, but this has not been heeded by the government. That is why today we are making a new announcement to the government that you should be able to register your parenthood with digital means even before the child is born. You should be allowed to feel that you are the child's parents at the moment of birth. Madam President, I would like I know that the proposals that my two previous colleagues have also spoken about today are celebrated by many in Sweden. It is good when the law follows social developments and changes so that all children get the same security regardless of what the families look like. There are still parts of today's bill that we Moderates are not satisfied with. I therefore look forward, Madam President, to coming back to this House in the near future when the government, as it is now, delivers what it has not been able to deliver in today's bill.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-139	Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Reservation 1 is also a rejection of the entire proposal and a announcement that the government will return with a new proposal that has a child's perspective based on the child's best interests. This proposal lacks a child's perspective and has not been made for the benefit of the child. For me, it's pretty simple. My party wants legislation based on the child. The best thing for the child is that parents and biological heritage are ready when the baby is born. The vast majority of children are expected and have been planned for many months before they are born. Why, then, does the bill not take advantage of the time so that the issue of parents and biological inheritance is resolved before the baby is born? For gay women, the planning time is even longer if possible, so why does this bill not take advantage of that time? No matter how the child is born, it is important that this is investigated before the baby is born, so that as many as possible can be born into a world of two caring parents. This proposal hinders such a system. How, then, can we stand here and call it modern legislation? The child's right to parents and the child's right to his or her biological heritage are for me self-evident rights that we must defend. It does not have to conflict with having a simple system. Madam President, I would like I was looking forward to this bill one, when the law has previously been out of date. Today's system came about at a time when it was obvious that you were married, and cohabiting with children was the exception. The vast majority followed the pattern of marriage before the baby was born, and then the presumption of the husband as father was a given solution. This needed to be modernised to suit today's society and today's way of life. Our neighbours have long updated their laws and adapted them. Both Norway and Finland have a process that starts in their equivalent to maternal care. They have simple registration procedures where the child's parents are easily registered, and the question of who becomes a parent is for the vast majority solved long before the child is born. In Norway, parents also get joint custody of joint children even when the child is born, in line with what I and my party want to apply in Sweden as well. Madam President, I would like I saw the current legislation as a floor that could hardly be reduced, and then all the changes should be for the better. Think how wrong you can be! With this bill, the government has managed to dig a basement. You just go the wrong way. Instead of building the system more secure for children, more insecurity is built in. Instead of previously established paternity, it becomes a later determination. Instead of children's perspective, you have an adult perspective. Madam President, I would like In this bill, the government has made several misconceptions. First of all, they have not been based on the child's need for parents and the child's right to his or her biological heritage. Instead, the government has assumed the needs of adults for a simple solution, at the expense of the rights of the child. It has also been based entirely on today's complicated system of social services involvement, although this has now been partly transferred to the Swedish Tax Agency. Since the whole bill has such a pervasive thought error, simple announcements cannot correct it. That is why we say, ‘ Do it again and do it right! ' The digital possibility of registering paternity must therefore apply only after the child has been born. Why wait? This will mean that more unmarried people wait until after the baby's birth, as it will be the simple way. So it is directly to the detriment of the child compared to the current system. With today's system, social services can in any case begin the investigation of paternity before the child is born. It is hindered by the new law. Now, virtually all parents will wait for the simple registration after the child has been born. It is directly harmful because the child's parents are clarified at a later stage. We have supported the announcement of a previous digital procedure, because it is, after all, better than the current system. However, I would like to emphasise that we would have preferred to have seen a completely different system. In my opinion, just a change in the digital procedure is not enough. It's kind of like putting a Band-Aid on an open wound. It's better than no patch at all, but it's not good. Our neighbours have solved the registration of paternity before the birth of the child in a much better and smoother way, and we should actually be able to do so and transfer the usual registration to maternity care. The complicated system we have in Sweden, where social services will investigate paternity even when it is obvious, is also the basis for the demand for a change of law is so great in Sweden. Now that the change is for the worse, the Riksdag should abstain. Today I stand up for children's right to parents when they are born. Unfortunately, my party seems to be completely alone in defending that right for real.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-153	Madam President, I would like At last, we are taking steps forward, steps that allow more children to have two guardians from birth. We also get a simpler confirmation of parenthood when the parents are not married. But we will still have very many children in Sweden who are born without two guardians, because there is still a very large proportion of children born outside of marriage. We lack in the digital confirmation that it cannot be done before the child's birth but also that the parents do not automatically get joint custody. We've been waiting a long time. These are a few steps forward, but we need to take more steps. Children are entitled to two guardians. The report contains a proposal for a declaration based, among other things, on the proposal of the Center Party and which my colleagues have mentioned: we need to confirm parenthood before the child's birth in order for the child to have two guardians from the outset. If you describe how complicated it is, it is more about not having the will to take the step forward. If you want to get past any difficulties this could involve. Since we want all children to have two guardians from the beginning, we want cohabiting partners to be automatically presumed. It should not just be about two parents being married. Then we approach that the vast majority of children have two guardians from the very beginning. Today's legislation is still based on the fact that it is about a man and a woman and that they are married. Everything else is something else. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that this should still be the case. We must dare to see that it is children and parents. Children are entitled to their origins. It is therefore important for me to document the link also in cases where biological parenthood is not the same as legal parenthood. That being said, none of it is worth less than the other. It's all worth as much to the baby. The lifting rules proposed in the report will create uncertainty for many children. There is an investigation to look at this, but then I do not understand why we need to go further and introduce more lifting rules before we have looked into whether those that exist are right. Do it first, and then we can have the rules of cancellation in that case. The proposed lifting rules risk causing children who are perhaps ten years old to lose one guardian because their parents end up in a conflict and claim to end parenthood. Then the guardian will also disappear. It's not for me a child's perspective. Parenthood is so much more than genetics. Madam President, I would like Family law legislation and the parental code is a patchwork. There will be an investigation in a year to take a holistic approach. I very much hope that this investigation can lift our eyes so that we start from the child's perspective and the child's right to her biological parents, legal parents and social parents. I will follow that work. We have to get away from the norm being man, woman and married. It shall be based on the child. Madam President, I would like As I said, we have taken steps forward in the report. It is easier to digitally confirm parenthood, but I miss that it does not happen before the child's birth. It is a good thing that even people who have a registered partnership are automatically presumed, but I want to see that also applies to cohabiting couples. Then we'll reach more children. I would also like to say in this context that there are parents who choose to have children on their own. It is also not wrong from a child's perspective. Even a single parent is good for the child, provided that the child is loved and is entitled to his or her origin. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the announcement proposed with regard to confirmation prior to the birth of the child. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I only ask for the approval of reservation number 2.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-166	Madam President, I would like The proposal proposes that parenthood should be presumed in more cases than today, which means that regulation becomes gender neutral and equal. If, at the birth of the child, the mother is married or a registered partner with a woman, the woman shall be automatically considered as the parent of the child. The same shall apply to paternity or maternity of married couples where one or both of the spouses has changed sex. The proposal also proposes to modernise and simplify the rules on the confirmation of parenthood. Unmarried parents who are adult and registered in Sweden must have the opportunity to digitally confirm parenthood without the social welfare committee's participation. In addition, the Government proposes that the regulation of paternity studies be modernised in order to make it clearer and more legally secure. The regulation is made technology neutral, and the conditions for court to decide on legal genetic examination using tissue from a deceased man are specifically regulated. In the bill, the Government proposes legislative changes in order to make parental law more modern, equal and effective, based on the best interests of the child. The Left Party believes that the government's proposal is essentially well-founded. Madam President, I would like However, like RFSL, we are critical of the proposal to lift a presumed parenthood. The proposal extends to all married couples the rules on the cancellation of presumed paternity introduced on 1 January 2019. Since 1 January 2019 a presumed paternity can be lifted if the child has been conceived after insemination at home with donated sperm, after assisted conception at a clinic abroad that is not competent or at a clinic abroad with donated sperm from anonymous donors. Fatherhood can also be cancelled if consent has not been given correctly before assisted fertilization. With the introduction of these new lifting rules, the investigation prior to this proposal has had to deal with this and propose that the same lifting rules apply to all married couples. That is regrettable. Madam President, I would like As parenthood and paternity will be presumed automatically for all married couples, this will in some cases be done wrongly and thus be cancelled in the future. This puts both children and parents in an uncertain situation, since, for example, in the event of a conflict, there is the possibility for those who have not given birth to lift the presumption and leave the parent who has given the child alone in his or her parenthood. Parents who know these rules will be able to secure their situation by going through an adoption process, but most will not know what the rules look like and thus end up in uncertain situations. It will be an unequal system in which parents with the right resources will be safe in parenthood while others have been wrongly presumed. Same-sex couples and couples where someone has changed legal sex need more than other couples donated germ cells to become pregnant, and therefore children in rainbow families are at risk of being more affected than other children by the new rules. It can never be compatible with a principle of the best interests of the child to provide a child with a lack of legal protection which means that, in some cases, a child may lose the parent who has not given birth at any time. Children have the right to both of their parents. Madam President, I would like RFSL considers that the fact that a child has been born by heminsemination or assisted reproduction with an unknown donor should not form the basis for revoking a parenthood, which is why the proposal should not be implemented in this part, and the corresponding grounds for revoking paternity should be removed. According to RFSL, the proportion of presumed parenthood at risk of being lifted will be greater for same-sex couples and other LGBT couples who need donated germ cells in order to have children, which means that children of divorced couples will have a more secure legal family relationship than children of same-sex parents. In the light of the concerns and concerns raised by RFSL, the rules for lifting a presumed parenthood should be further explored. I hereby request the approval of reservation 3 – I hope that was the right thing to do.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-178	Madam President, I would like There are different ways of looking at parenthood, but most share the hope that their own children will be safe individuals who feel that they can influence their own lives and realize their dreams. Many different things affect a child's development: family, school, friends, culture and society as well as inborn qualities. Most researchers seem to agree that the early close relationship with parents is particularly important. In interaction with them, the child shapes the image of himself and others. Here the foundation is laid for a process of development that continues throughout life. I believe that the most important qualities that a parent can and should have are to give love and consideration but also to be able to put the child's needs ahead of his own needs. If you do that, the security of the child and the security of the person will be created at a young age, and you carry it with you throughout your life. Today you can become a parent in different ways, but it does not change the need for the parent for the child. We as legislators can never legislate for love or unselfishness, but it can only come from the parents themselves. However, I believe that we can contribute security. Children need to be able to trust that their world with the important people in their lives cannot be changed or that their parents can be taken away too easily. Our laws must change and respond to the situation we have, and this applies not least to our family situations and how we as parents should be viewed. There are a number of proposals in this bill that we Christian Democrats consider to be good and beneficial to all parties, both parents and children. At the birth of a child, parenthood should be presumed in more cases than today, i.e. taken for granted. This leads to more gender-neutral and equal regulation. The way I see it, it'll be a safer start for the baby. Confirmation of parenthood shall be simplified so that unmarried parents who are of age and registered in Sweden shall be able to digitally confirm a parenthood after the child's birth without the involvement of the social welfare board. We Christian Democrats believe that this should be done even before the birth of the child, and there is an announcement about this that we hope the government will return to as soon as possible. But at least this is a step in the right direction. We have comments. There are a number of investigations under way, and an investigation called Parental Law for All should be completed on 21 June 2022. I believe that it will allow us to make new decisions and also perhaps change the decisions we are making with this proposal today. In my opinion, it would have been better to wait so that one got an overall picture and then make decisions on all the changes in a decision. Now we are patching and legislating in a piece of legislation that otherwise needs to be modernised. As we write in the reservation on the limitation of the possibility of revoking certain presumed parenthood, we believe that the new category of presumed parenthood should not be lifted on the ground that the child has been created by a heminsemination or by assisted fertilization at a clinic abroad with an anonymous donor. We believe that this is not a satisfactory order for the future because the proportion of presumed parenthood at risk of being lifted will be greater for same-sex couples and other LGBT couples who need donated reproductive cells in order to have children. The aim must be to create the most secure situation possible regardless of the parent's image, based on the child's situation and the child's situation. I therefore return to what we, as legislators, can do: we can create an opportunity for security. That is why I am in favour of reservation number 3.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-188	Madam President, I would like Having children is a big decision. In the vast majority of cases, it is taken together by the prospective parents. The prospective parents make no distinction as to whether they happen to be a mother and a father or two mothers or whether they are married or cohabiting. But the law makes a difference. If the parents are a man and a woman who are married, the husband is automatically assumed to be guardian number two. If you are two women who are married or registered parties, you are not supposed to be. If you are not married, you need to visit the social services office soon after birth to confirm that you assume responsibility as a guardian, which is something that you usually already decided when you made the decision to have a child. Many people testify that at the time of confirmation of paternity, as we have at present, it is often assumed that it is a man and a woman who have children and that the parents are also exposed to quite gender stereotyped issues, such as whether the man has been away at the time of conception. The woman doesn't get the same question. Today we are taking a major step forward on these issues. The rules will be simpler and gender neutral. Parenthood will continue to be taken for granted even when two women who are married or registered partners have children. It will also apply to paternity or maternity of married couples where one of the spouses has changed sex. It will be possible to avoid travelling to the social welfare office, and instead it will be possible to digitally confirm parenthood without the involvement of the social welfare board. The provisions on paternity investigations are also being modernised. All this is good, but the Liberals would like to see further changes. A very large number of children are born in cohabiting relationships. In a modern and equal society, it is difficult to justify why such relationships should be treated differently in relation to the presumption of parenthood compared to marriage and registered partnerships. It should be further investigated, and proposals to extend the presumption of parenthood to cohabiting couples should be submitted to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like In January 2019, new grounds were added for revoking a presumed paternity in cases where donated sperm has been used. Through the legislative proposals in this legislative case, the same conditions for termination will apply to the new category of presumed parenthood. This may mean that children of divorced couples have more secure legal family ties than children of same-sex parents. On this basis, it is positive that the Government has given the investigation E n parental law legislation for all to review the regulatory framework for the lifting of parenthood. We believe that the new category of presumed parenthood should not be lifted on the grounds that the child has been created by a heminsemination or by assisted fertilization at a clinic abroad with an anonymous donor. Since legislation should, of course, be uniform for all, harmonisation should be implemented in such a way that the lifting rules for presumed paternity are amended in the same direction. That is why I would like to support reservation number 5.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-196	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation. He who is in debt is not free. The phrase coined by Social Democratic politician Ernst Wigforss in the early 1930s has certainly been spoken a number of times in this House, but it can be repeated. Over-indebtedness in Sweden is growing. Compared to our Nordic neighbours, we take an unflattering first place in this branch too, and the biggest increase comes from consumer loans, gambling abuse and harmful quick loans with high costs. When someone falls into insolvency and the debts go to the Kronofogden for recovery and even as far as wage foreclosure, it should not be taken too lightly. While there should be motivation for the individual to get out of his/her situation, and while early measures to prevent people from falling into over-indebtedness are important, there must also be a balance between this and the interest of the creditor in getting what it is legally entitled to. It is not reasonable that it is too easy to get rid of debts that you yourself have usurped, and the person you owe must also be able to get redress. The creditor, i.e. the one waiting for money, may be the state. Then it's everyone's money we're all talking about. It can also be a company or a private person. Maybe it's a victim waiting for damages. It is therefore of the utmost importance that both of these aspects are put in the balance when discussing changes in the regulations for wage measurement. The Government is now proposing several changes to the enforcement code in order to facilitate the situation of debtors who have wage foreclosure and to streamline the enforcement procedure. The amount that a debtor may retain for the purposes of salary measurement shall be increased for families with children. Some 162,000 children today live in over-indebted households. The share of children in households with wage and salary measurement has certainly decreased slightly over the last two years, but at the same time the number of children in households with debt adjustment has increased. Children should not be squeezed, and measures to strengthen children's rights are important. Increasing the amount that a debtor with a child may keep is positive for children who are exposed to low living conditions. It is not the children who should suffer when the parents get into financial difficulties. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of proposals that make it easier for children of indebted parents. We welcome the government's proposal to change the allowance for families with children. However, for those who are not dependent on children, the focus should be on a high refund rate and the creditor getting as much back as possible. Therefore, there is no reason to make it easier to have the payment deferred during the wage foreclosure more than once, as the government proposes. On the one hand, more deferrals mean that it takes longer for creditors to receive full payment for their claims, and, on the other hand, delays the progress and prevents the debtor from returning to normal living. This is negative for the debtor himself but also for the children living in over-indebted households. Madam President, I would like You're supposed to do the right thing. It has always been considered obvious to the majority of the population that one should behave, pay one's bills on time and not burden the general public unnecessarily. However, various causes, often mental ill-health, can lead to unhealthy indebtedness. When this happens, the starting point must always be to pay back, to do the right thing. Therefore, the other reliefs in the Government's proposal are sufficient to protect children and motivate the indebted. Any deferral shall continue to be short and shall be applied restrictively in connection with the measurement of salary. He who is in debt is not free.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-206	Madam President, I would like At the moment, the Committee on Civil Liberties is therefore debating a proposal with the name "Salary foreclosure" and digital applications in the enforcement procedure. It may not sound very attractive, but behind the name is a policy that is very important to many people's everyday economy. The legislative changes proposed in the bill mean that we can facilitate the situation for debtors who have an ongoing salary measurement. We do this by ensuring that the reserve amount for a family with children in this situation can actually be increased. The background is relatively simple. The costs for children are different in different ages. A 7-year-old needs food, clothing, and maybe a sum of extracurricular activities. But the overhead costs of a 17-year-old, on the other hand, are higher. Maybe the 17-year-old needs a driver's license. 17 ‐ the age can also drain your fridge, freezer and pantry much faster than younger children do. Anyone who has a 17-year-old at home or close to him knows that. There are currently only two reference frameworks for age categories. With this bill we increase it to four age categories. The amendment, the increase in the reserve amount, is proposed to enter into force on 1 June 2022. The enforcement procedure should also be made more flexible, as a digital application can be submitted to K Ronofogden from 1 August this year. Madam President, I would like Life can sometimes be unpredictable. Not least has the terrible pandemic that we have experienced and are still living through shown us. This bill allows a debtor to defer payment more than once. This makes it possible to have a more acceptable everyday life. This can be the case, for example, if you are seriously ill with postcovid or if you have had an accident. If this happens, you may need a valve to get a decent living relationship. It's not about luxury. A debtor cannot claim respite on the grounds that he or she wishes to go on a holiday. It is simply a matter of insuring the person reasonable living conditions until that person is back on his feet. And consideration of personal and financial conditions for that person in individual situations, which we handle here, should apply. It's not about whether you've been deferred before or not. In this room, the aim should be to legislate with regard to people. We Social Democrats want to look at people's reasons and life situation and not at a figure when it comes to whether to grant them leave. Having said that, I would like to point out that this does not exclude the fact that factors are taken into account in this assessment as to how long the wage measurement has been or may be going on. The need for deferment should be greater if the wage foreclosure has been going on for a longer period or if the corresponding ratio applies. Such circumstances should therefore also be taken into account, as several consultation bodies, including two courts of appeal, have also indicated as wise. Madam President, I would like It's not easy to live under a paycheck. It is especially not easy if you are a family with children. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs today agrees to be able to increase the reserve amount for families with children and to adapt it to the age of the children. It also feels safe to give debtors the possibility of deferment if an illness or accident occurs that makes life take a different direction than expected. In view of what I have just said, I support the proposal in the report and the Government's proposal and rejection of the reservation.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-216	Madam President, I would like We've been waiting for this bill. It aims to take a small step to simplify the conditions for individuals to participate in the development of a detailed plan. This is a consequence of a moderate announcement from the last parliamentary term. We have therefore also driven the government ahead of us on this point together with our bourgeois colleagues. And now they've finally come forward with this bill. But – and it is a great but – it does not fundamentally solve the problem that we often see in society when it comes to the relationship of strength between the general and the individual. Then I'm talking about the individual landowner who wants to realize a dream and build a house for himself or maybe for someone else. The problem with how the Swedish legislation is constructed is that the public has a very far-reaching right to say no on very loose grounds to those who have a dream of building a residential building for themselves or someone else outside of a planned area, i.e. unplanned land. This, we mean moderates, is a party imbalance to the detriment of the individual. It creates a weak position for the individual who wants to build and create prosperity in this country. We have tried to do something about it, and that is the problem that we address in the follow-up motion that we might have been able to get a majority for, Madam President, if it had not been for the January agreement. I understand that there is basically a majority in this House for the idea that we are presenting in our motion. However, some parties have, out of concern for the now fallen January agreement, chosen not to support the motion. The motion is currently being assisted by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. My assessment, Madam President, is that the Liberals and the Center Party, too, basically feel that this would have been a step in the right direction. They are, of course, allowed to explain it themselves, but that is how I have understood them in the debate on housing policy. This would have been an important step for all of us who believe that ownership is important and not just on paper but that people should also be able to exercise it in practice. What is the value of ownership if, in any given situation and without giving any specific reasons, the general is able to say no to anyone who wants to build outside a planned area? If you can't use the land for anything, it's not worth much. Madam President, I would like I did not intend to speak for very long, but I would like to express my support for our follow-up motion and regret that the January Agreement has apparently stood in the way of a constructive idea and that a potentially good reform to better balance the strength relationship between the general and the individual unfortunately seems to be going down. However, we will simply have to come back to the issue when parliamentary conditions now look somewhat different. I support the moderate reservation, i.e. reservation 2.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-222	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is the government's proposal that the Swedish Democrats have been behind for a very long time, that is, the possibility of their own planning processes in a planned construction. One should not have to wait for the municipality to participate and create opportunities for building a dwelling in areas such as detailed planning. This would enable faster planning processes because you can take private initiatives and then plan stakeholders can start work e t before the municipality works with the area. This would have many positive effects by shortening the planning process. It is an important part of both increasing the conditions for building and speeding up the construction processes. It also enables construction where the municipality does not have plans today. Furthermore, we support the proposal whereby smaller building projects for small-scale building projects are also made possible outside a planned area. A property owner should therefore be able to require the municipality to initiate a detailed planning procedure if it does not conflict with a master plan that the municipality makes an assessment of. This would, of course, allow for increased construction even in areas where there are no plans today. It is a very good proposal to give more stakeholders the opportunity to participate and contribute to the increased construction in general, something that Sweden needs today. It also gives the individual the opportunity to realize their dreams. With these words, Madam President, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 2 which the Swedish Democrats are supporting together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-226	Madam President, I would like As a nation, we are in great need of building more homes in Sweden. One can of course discuss the problem and have different views on why more housing is not being built, but one of the reasons is clearly that the planning readiness and resources in Sweden's municipalities to develop new plans are not enough, and it is a limiting factor. Having said that, we Christian Democrats are in favour of several of the government's proposals that are being put on the table today in connection with the private right of initiative. The aim of the new rules is to get faster planning processes and that the plan stakeholders should be able to produce documentation before the municipality starts the building. Part of the content is that the municipality should account for the planning data that may be needed in a detailed planning if someone, a so-called plan stakeholder, takes a private initiative for planning. Under certain conditions, the plan stakeholders should be able to request the County Administrative Board to give an opinion on the planning basis that may be needed to enable the County Administrative Board to take a position on how the facility relates to the interests under the supervision of the County Administrative Board. It must be stated that the necessary documentation when drawing up a detailed plan may also be produced by someone other than the municipality. We believe that these three elements will simplify and, if possible, create more plans in the municipalities. Then municipalities must also dare to let in a plan stakeholder who can do part of the job and thus facilitate the workload of municipalities. However, we as a parliament need to do more to help municipalities increase the number of plans that are drawn up each year. For example, we can do this by encouraging municipalities to increase the number of plans made. Those who succeed well receive an incentive contribution from the state and therefore do not have to take all the financial burden. Based on discussions with quite a few municipalities, it is clear that the priority of projects too often consists of centralisation or a larger area adjacent to the centre. Being able to get so high up in the municipalities' priority that a small building area is planned is a unique phenomenon in Sweden today. All that often becomes only piece-by-piece built small house plots. We, as citizens' main representatives, must take on the role and responsibility to build on the needs that exist. Seven out of ten want to live in their own owned dwelling, and thus we should take a bigger take to realize this dream for more and the need that exists around Sweden. We would like to emphasise that Sweden's municipalities have a great responsibility. The municipal plan monopoly obliges. It is not something that should just be fun to have, but one should act on the needs and wishes of the citizens. Priority should be given to the building in the municipalities so that planning processes can be started and implemented at the pace and in the manner desired by property owners, developers and other initiators. We also believe that the rights of those who wish to build small houses should be further strengthened in relation to the municipality. In the case of smaller projects, we believe that a property owner should be able to require the municipality to initiate a detailed planning procedure if this does not conflict with the master plan and the municipality believes that it is necessary for building permits for small houses to be granted. If Parliament approves the reservation, it would be a small part of the way for us to be able to build more small houses in Sweden. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-236	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal contained in the CU22 report. The government is proposing that a private right of initiative be introduced for detailed planning. In short, if a municipality submits a positive plan decision according to the Planning and Construction Act, a property owner, a developer or someone else who has taken the initiative for planning can start to produce planning data. The municipality will then report which planning data is expected to be needed. However, the municipality must remain responsible for ensuring that the evidence shows planning conditions in a correct and reliable manner. The aim of the proposal is to speed up planning processes by enabling plan stakeholders to start work on developing planning documents before the municipality has the opportunity to start the building. We Social Democrats think this is a balanced proposal. On the one hand, plan stakeholders are given greater influence over the planning process. At the same time, they can complement the municipality's work. On the other hand, the municipality's planning monopoly is maintained, which is an important democratic instrument for municipalities to be able to shoulder the responsibility for housing, infrastructure, municipal and public services, etc. which is the responsibility of a municipality. Madam President, I would like I would once again like to support the proposal contained in the CU22 report.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-239	Madam President, I would like During the morning, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats joined forces with the Left Party to stop what the Left Party describes as market rents, but which is a necessary step to enable property owners to negotiate the rent directly with the prospective tenant, starting with the new housing from 1 July 2022. Representatives of all three parties have the opportunity to take a line on me in this debate. My question to you, especially within the Moderates and Christian Democrats, with whom we have fought shoulder-to-shoulder on this issue, is: When will the next chance of breaking up resistance to the strictly regulated rents that we have and that hamper housing construction? Now and in the coming year we had the chance to do something that it now risks taking decades before we can mobilise support for here in the Swedish Parliament. The responsibility rests heavily on Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and Larry Söder, who have now hooked arm with Momodou Malcolm Jallow to stop several reforms, not just this one. Paragraph 44 of the January Agreement contains not only a free lease but also a fairer negotiating model in which a party does not have a right of veto in practice. This and a lease in the existing stock where attractiveness and demand are better reflected are now pushed to an uncertain future. The same thing, Madam President. It is because, among other things, the Center Party has pushed forward that we have to take a position on proposals for private right of initiative today. It is also inscribed in the January Agreement, as you know. But already in 2015 an announcement was made that the Social Democrats and the Green Party then reserved against. We want to remove obstacles to its construction. One of these is the slowness of municipalities to decide on and implement a planning process themselves. At last, and perhaps especially today, housing policy has become a major issue in Sweden. We have a housing shortage that affects young people, new arrivals, families with children, job seekers and students, but also older people. At different stages of life a dwelling is needed, and then a new area in your municipality can offer just that. The construction companies know about this and want to get started as soon as possible with planning when they have an agreement with a landowner. It must not be the case that slowness or lack of resources in the municipality prevents them from doing what they within the company consider to have knowledge and capacity to do. Madam President, I would like At the same time, we in the Center Party defend local influence and the open democratic process. Ultimately, it is the citizens of a municipality who decide where to build – not local opinion, but all through their elected politicians. That is why, Madam President, we think it is balanced proposals that are presented here. They provide greater freedom without restricting the autonomy of municipalities. But not all municipalities have equal opportunities. Society's ability to draw up plans increases if more people can participate in the work when plan queues are formed in expansive municipalities. Planköer can also occur in small municipalities where there is little construction, because planning processes are not so common and there is therefore no staff at the plan offices. It is faster – in many cases it may also be better – if the construction company and the consultants they hire do the job and the municipality is content to make the democratic decisions that they have been given the municipality's mandate to make – first of all to decide on a plan decision. There is, of course, no reason to start a job which then turns out to be in vain. However, an initiative must be taken into consideration in the municipality at the request of a stakeholder, with a resultant decision. In such a case, it should be able to immediately lead to the work being started and that the municipality is clear on what basis is needed for the consultation and for adoption in the municipal council. Dialogue with citizens through consultation and exhibition must remain the responsibility of the municipality. Nor must it be delayed. If the consultation then leads to a change in the plan, it will be the work of the plan stakeholder – the company, the initiator – to do so. But the decision to adopt is, of course, also the work of elected representatives. It is also valuable that the plan stakeholders do not become dependent on the municipality when it comes to requesting opinions from the county administrative board. Otherwise one would risk getting a whisper between the stakeholder, the municipality and the county board, which easily leads to misunderstandings and delays of the project. Madam President, I would like The Center Party supports the proposals as a whole, but since it is our own proposal that is now being implemented, we have some views on details. We want more. The Moderates want the rights of those who build small houses to be strengthened. We agree, especially if this applies outside of the planned areas, in rural and local areas. We do not think, however, that this should be done through a request for planning, a view which Mr Bohlin represents. According to us, it should be possible to do so by means of a simple building permit, or perhaps even simpler than that – by means of a start-up decision. We believe that the requirements should be lower for a detailed plan to be drawn up. In the case of several houses, such a process shall not be necessary. In the case of single houses, we go in our housing policy exercise so far that we want it to be required only one construction report if it concerns single houses outside the planned area. Municipalities should be able to identify in their master plan in which areas building permits are required and where detailed plans are required. This is what we have expressed in our special opinion, to which we refer when we call for approval of the report.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-252	Madam President, I would like Today it takes far too long for a construction operator to get a positive plan decision until the person moving into the home can put the key in the door. Extensive regulatory simplifications are needed to shorten this process. Simplifying the rules will not only speed up the processes, but will also make building housing cheaper. Through the January agreement, we have negotiated a number of regulatory simplifications in the planning process. One of these is the right of private initiative, which allows construction operators to speed up the process by developing a planning basis. This is a good and positive step in the right direction. But much more is needed. We have also developed this in a separate opinion. We in the Liberals have a number of proposals to make it easier, faster and less complicated. One of them is that houses should be type approved. Today, the same house can be assessed differently in different municipalities. If the developer can obtain prior approval, the construction costs can be effectively reduced and the process speeded up. It can also have positive effects on municipalities, as the administration will be easier. In order to facilitate and speed up construction processes, we also want to further limit the parties to the proceedings, i.e. those who have the right to appeal against a decision. Another measure could be to charge some appeals. Some types of housing for which there is a particular shortage should be managed quickly. This applies, for example, to student housing and dwellings for year-long. However, private initiative is, as I said, a step in the right direction. Madam President, I would like There is a follow-up motion from, among other things, the Moderates that one thinks there should be a larger circle that could support. It is very possible that it is a very good proposal. Nevertheless, I can see that there were also good proposals in this House to liberalise the rental market but which have also fallen. It is a proposal that the Moderates should have been able to support but which is not now possible to implement. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-258	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to be so tedious in this debate either. I simply note that it is by all means legitimate to have high ambitions in terms of the environment and climate. But not infrequently, these ambitions fall into a regulatory spirit from which the effect may not be fully derived. You are more interested in making it look good on paper than that it has any practical significance. We believe that, in part, the Government's proposal on climate declarations is of this nature. We want more exceptions to be allowed than the government, in order to better balance the benefits with the cost of these measures. We therefore want all small houses, whether built by a private individual or by an entrepreneur, to be excluded. The cost of a climate declaration for a small house is estimated at 30 000 – 40 000 SEK. We believe that on such a small project, which may be a total of a few million, there will be too high a cost to pass on to individuals. This is a cost that the state imposes on individuals who want to build houses. We think it is a bad balance, quite simply. I therefore support our second reservation.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-261	Madam President, I would like We are debating today a proposal to introduce a climate declaration for buildings. It also means that it is a legal requirement. So it is not voluntary. The proposal is intended to raise awareness among the actors in the construction industry about the climate impact of buildings. We believe that this is not reason enough to introduce binding legislation on the matter. We can also note that there is an estimated cost of SEK 8 million per year to implement the proposal. Several consultation bodies support the Swedish democrats' argument that we should reject the proposal. A climate statement on climate impact needs if it is to have a real effect based on a building's life cycle and nothing else. We and the consultation bodies believe that the proposal will mean an increased number of delays in housing construction, increased administration and longer processing times. It is not that way that we need to go now when we are going to simplify housing construction that we add another charge to those who want to build and are involved in building housing in Sweden today. In addition to increased costs for the state and taxpayers, the proposal also increases the costs for those who build the dwellings and, of course, the costs for those who are going to buy the dwellings. To draw up a climate statement for a small house, a villa, is estimated to take about 48 hours. It is therefore a cost of 48 000 SEK. This represents almost 1 per cent of the production price of small houses in Sweden today. It is not reasonable to impose such increased costs. This can be compared to being close to the level of today's title and stamp duty. Are there any more such costs we should spend on housing construction? That is not the ambition of the Swedish democrats. We also believe that the important competition that needs to increase in Sweden in order to reduce the cost of housing construction is hampered by this proposal. Larger construction companies, of course, benefit from their size. They can administer such charges in a completely different way from what smaller construction companies can do. We should remember that the construction companies in the construction market today are primarily small construction companies. According to SCB, 87 per cent of construction companies in 2019 consisted of companies with a maximum of four employees. We believe that today's system of voluntary environmental certification is the way forward. Instead, we can come up with proposals that the Swedish Democrats highlight. We get guidelines that can be common to those who choose to follow them in a voluntary certification that construction companies can instead refer to. It is instead of a climate declaration that is mandatory according to law that becomes an additional charge and cost for all actors involved when we build small houses in Sweden. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 1 from the Swedish Democrats.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-273	Madam President, I would like It has been very hot in several places in our country this weekend. Although many of us longed for the summer after the long winter and cold spring, I also know that there is a lot of things, including myself, that are worried. We know that things are not right when temperatures on our latitudes rise in this way. The earth has a fever. The ongoing and accelerating climate change is an obvious existential threat, both to humanity and to life on earth as we know it. In order to stem these accelerating climate change, we need to change and change quickly. We must quickly achieve zero emissions in all sectors of Sweden. That is why I am very proud and pleased that today we are debating and deciding on the proposal for a law on climate declarations. This is something on which the Green Party and I went to elections and something that we have been pursuing for a long time, and which, thanks to the January agreement, becomes a reality. In addition, it is a proposal that is a very important step for the construction industry to reduce its emissions from new production. Madam President, I would like According to the latest figures, the construction industry today accounts for more than a fifth of Sweden's total climate impact, and only domestic emissions are included. Everything we import into our construction projects is not included in that calculation. In order to get a grip on what one fifth of Sweden's emissions are dealing with, it is as much as the passenger cars emit in one year. We talk about them very much, and for their emissions we have a great many measures. But the construction industry has for a long time slipped under the radar. I see it as an important first step. Today we have the knowledge to build climate smart. We can build both passive houses and plus houses while the energy consumption to heat up all our existing houses is very large. However, the largest greenhouse gas emissions from a building from a life cycle perspective arise in the construction phase and then from the operational energy during the use phase. Against this background – that about half of the climate impact of newly produced buildings occurs during the construction process based on material choices, among other things – there are strong reasons to develop instruments that lead to a more climate-smart construction during the planning and construction process. Climate declarations are just such an instrument. This proposal on climate declarations for buildings is therefore an important step for the industry to reduce its emissions. Emissions must be reduced if we are to halt the greatest challenge of our time – climate change. Boverket has, on behalf of the Government, developed a proposal for a plan for the further development of the climate declarations to provide the industry with long-term rules of play and planning conditions. With this bill, Sweden will in fact be one of the first countries in the world to steer towards lower emissions in the construction phase. The draft law requires the developer to calculate and account for the climate impact arising from the construction of a new building. Madam President, I would like A climate statement shall contain information on the building and the climate impact of the building during the construction phase. Information on the climate impact shall include the supply of raw materials at the production stage, transport at the production stage, production at the production stage, transport at the construction production stage and the construction and installation process at the construction production stage. The declaration covers the greenhouse gas emissions generated during the construction phase, and the information in the declaration must be submitted as a condition for the developer to then receive a final decision. Madam President, I would like Which buildings will then be covered? The climate declaration requirement will apply to new buildings that are constructed and require building permits. This will take effect from 1 January 2022, i.e. next year. But there are exceptions, and we have heard requests for more exceptions here before. Buildings with fixed-term building permits are excluded and buildings for industrial and engineering purposes are excluded. This also applies to economic buildings for agriculture, forestry or other similar industries and buildings with no gross area greater than 100 square metres. Here we should start discussing how big our homes will be in the future so that we can reduce the climate impact in real life. How are we going to take care of the land we have and build most efficiently? Buildings intended for total defence are also excluded. This also applies to buildings that are important for Sweden's security and buildings where the developer is a private person and this builds the building privately. One question that I have been asked several times during the process is: if you make an extension – does it also need to be covered by the climate declaration? No, the requirement only applies if a new building is constructed. I have heard earlier in the debate, particularly from the Swedish Democrats, that it is believed that we cannot influence the climate footprint of the construction sector by introducing climate declarations. I would argue that if we are to raise awareness and raise awareness of the climate impact that the construction sector actually has, we also want to take on this responsibility. I am quite convinced that, if only for the sake of our children and grandchildren, we want to take responsibility and reduce the climate impact of the construction of new buildings. Madam President, I would like However, this is only the first step. Although we can reduce the climate impact of construction by measuring emissions, we need to do more. The climate declarations we are debating today create, above all, the conditions for taking the next step. Among other things, it is about being able to set limit values for climate impact based on a more complete life cycle analysis. Such a proposal is now being consulted. The intention is, of course, to steer towards significantly reduced emissions in order to reduce the overall climate impact of the construction sector. Another step that I see we need to take is to reduce the climate impact also from existing buildings. I know it's not in the bill today. However, we are still talking about the climate impact of the construction sector, so I will take the liberty of mentioning a few words about this too. No one should believe that this solves the problems and challenges of the entire construction sector when it comes to climate impact or entire construction... whatever we want to call it and its challenge in terms of climate impact. The vast majority of buildings are already built, and the vast majority of buildings today have a major energy supply challenge. It is simply about how much energy they draw during their lifetime. I think we need to think ahead about how these buildings can also be involved in reducing the climate impact of the construction sector. I see that we will now have to impose energy requirements on existing buildings as well. I therefore welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review report The energy declaration system – clear purpose but unclear objectives, which were presented last week and which we in the committee will debate after the summer – if we do not go to an extra election. Madam President, I would like I think it is good that these issues are both raised by the National Audit Office and that we are debating them in this House. From the Green Party we would like to see a renovation trend that goes away from tearing out well-functioning kitchens in order to increase rent to instead equip our houses for the future. It is partly about coping with the climate changes we are facing, such as heat waves or heavy rainfall, and partly about reducing the climate impact that the existing stock also represents. Madam President, I would like I and the Green Party are proud that the bill is now on Parliament's table and that there is a majority behind it. However, we are not satisfied until we have achieved zero greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors. It is therefore gratifying that several of the consultation bodies say that they also want to go further. We heard the Swedish Democrats mention earlier those consultation bodies that do not want us to do so, but I really want to point out that there are consultation bodies that want us to go further now. This applies, for example, to Sweden's Architects, who state in their consultation that if development is to be reversed and emissions reduced in line with the climate targets that we all set ourselves on, the entire industry must already do a more comprehensive life cycle analysis than the one proposed. I hope that we will soon be there and can broaden the proposal so that it becomes clearer and includes limit values. So we want to go further, and that is also part of Boverket's mission forward. Madam President, I would like Finally, another important and good thing about the bill is that it will raise the level of knowledge in the industry. It is an industry where I myself have worked and that I have temporarily left behind just in the frustration of the lack of understanding that we have bigger challenges than those that the industry has traditionally worked with. Today's topic for debate and later decisions is definitely a step in the right direction, which means that I will probably find it a little more fun the day I come back to the construction industry and also have to work with the climate impact of what we are building. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in its entirety and reject the accompanying motions that exist.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-300	Madam President, I would like After all, the overall objective is to keep the increase in the global average temperature well below two degrees, with the goal of not exceeding one and a half degrees, while increasing the adaptability to adverse climate change and promoting the adaptation of financial flows so that they are compatible with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Madam President, I would like What I have just read is what the countries, including Sweden, that have signed up to the Paris Agreement have undertaken to do. It must be possible to reconcile economic growth, increased welfare and an equal society with curbing climate emissions. We can't have a system where some people have to adapt while others get away with it. It goes without saying, Madam President, that the construction and real estate sector is one of the social sectors that can do more and want to do more. Nor is there any doubt that they are prepared and see it as a challenge and an opportunity. A few years ago there was a debate about whether it was a good idea or a bad idea to go ahead in the climate work and make higher municipal demands. It was almost a competition between municipalities that did not have to worry about the construction investments in their municipalities to set the highest energy requirements and build the densest houses. It has now been a few years and, despite protests from some of these municipalities, the Alliance Government was forced to legislate away local government's special requirements on energy consumption, accessibility or other technical characteristics. It turned out that excessive national requirements created such a space for municipalities. Those of us who want housing construction to take place quickly, cost-effectively and also sustainably therefore welcome uniform rules that the industry can and wants to adapt to. Construction accounts for one fifth of society's climate impact, which is not insignificant. It is possible to influence the climate footprint through the selection of materials, methods, technical solutions and transport. No material is set aside further. Everyone has goals when they want to achieve climate neutrality. A new law on climate declarations is now being proposed. A prerequisite for the final clearance of building boards is the existence of a climate declaration, unless it has been made clear that such a declaration is not applicable. This has been supported by all parties except the Swedish Democrats. They justify their rejection by the continuation of the voluntary certifications, which have in fact given rise to the disorder. It is the Center Party against, Madam President. We want to see increased construction in wood, because the growing Swedish forest is both a carbon sink and a material that binds coal while it is in use, for example in a building. Climate declarations are an important step, but one that not only rewards the construction of wood but becomes a challenge for everyone, including construction in concrete, glass and steel. Climate decarations will over time be used to set minimum requirements for climate impact in a life cycle perspective. Now they should only be piled up and collected by building boards and then archived at Boverket. That is a low level of ambition that should be tightened up quickly, Madam President. Our opinion is clear. We support the proposal as a whole.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-311	Madam President, I would like The climate is the destiny of our generation. In future, if we are to avoid rising sea levels that bring people's homes under water, extreme heat that makes certain parts of the globe uninhabitable and extreme weather that will lead to large flows of refugees, we must take the climate issue seriously. The emissions of residential building are an area that has been obscured for quite a long time. Our municipalities have also noticed and thus also developed their own ways of trying to certify and be a driving force on the climate issue. We don't think that's good. We think that it is good if there are uniform rules, because that means that we can build faster and cheaper rather than the construction industry having to deal with a plethora of different initiatives and rules. It is therefore a good thing that we are now making proposals on uniform climate declarations. If we take the climate issue seriously and really want to achieve the climate goals that we actually agree on, we also need to ensure that all sectors are involved and contribute, including the sector of housing construction. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-315	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee report 2020/ 21:23 Climate declaration for buildings. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The issue of climate declarations is part of the climate change transition. For us social democrats, it is about the work of solidarity and the building of freedom and equality for all. Because climate change is deeply unfair. They primarily affect poor people both in Sweden and globally. The causes of climate change are also borne to a greater extent by those with the greatest resources. The richest 10% account for about half of all CO2 emissions in the world. At the same time, the poorest 50% account for less than 10% of emissions. The richest percentage emits twice as much as the poorest half of the world's population. We Social Democrats believe that climate policy must put jobs and growth in focus and that it is when society as a whole works together that we can solve the climate issue. No individual, company or country can achieve what is required. This decision, Madam President, is a welcome part of a long series of decisions that we have taken and must take to turn our country into the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. Madam President, I would like It is a fact that buildings in Sweden today account for one fifth of society's climate impact. The construction of buildings therefore has a major impact on the climate. There is a need for increased awareness and knowledge of the climate impact of buildings and increased availability of information about the impact of different choices in the building process on both the environment and the climate. It is possible to influence the climate footprint that the construction of a building entails, for example, through the selection of materials, the construction method, the design solution, the distance to the manufacture of materials and resource planning. To see a building's entire life span in a so-called lifecycle perspective is a major step and even a shift of systems in the climate policy work in the construction sector. More and better instruments are needed to meet climate policy objectives. This is a very good proposal in a long-term and systematic climate work that also aims to increase freedom and equality in our country for all.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-323	Madam President, I would like It is important that the person who is the owner and legally concerned by a matter should be able to lodge a complaint in a public court and have his or her case or objection heard. It is also a problem that we in society today have a situation where things are being appealed on sometimes very arbitrary grounds, as part of procrastination and delaying something you do not like. One element of this, Madam President, is sometimes that organisations that are quite far from a matter have a say in a case. It may be justified to give organisations the right to speak by virtue of their position, but it must of course also be balanced against the conditions for us to be able to move forward with the community building. We are now seeing, Madam President, how the government goes beyond what the EIA Directive requires in giving a voice to environmental organisations in a way that risks delaying and costing important construction projects. It is a difficult balance, but it needs to be done in a balanced way to ensure that we do not end up in a situation where we do not get anything done in this country. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that most parties in this House are at least prepared to admit that it is a problem that our construction processes are taking a long time today. One element of this, of course, is the time it takes to have a case brought before the courts. Then we must ensure that we have a system in which those who are de facto concerned by a question have the right to speak, but that, in addition, the circle is kept reasonably tight so that we do not have a situation that drives social costs in an indefensible way. When the government now implements the EIA Directive, it goes beyond what the directive requires. We think it's unwise. We would like the directive to be implemented at the minimum level in order to achieve a more reasonable balance between the right of action for organisations which are very far removed from the substance of the matter and the conditions for having construction carried out. Let me take another nearby example. Is it reasonable that an organisation located on the west coast can appeal against individual beach protection rights on Gotland? That is a question you have to reasonably ask yourself. I am of the personal opinion that it is not entirely reasonable that this is the case because it creates problems for the functioning of society. It also drains the public apparatus on resources. Is this what we're going to spend our resources on? The answer to that question is in some cases yes and in some cases absolutely not. Here the government has not been quite right in the balance. We therefore want the directive to be implemented at its minimum level. I request approval of the Moderate reservation 1.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-330	Madam President, I would like We are debating the EIA Directive today. It is a directive that will ensure an assessment of a construction project that is considered to have a significant environmental impact. This proposal provides an explicit right for certain organisations to appeal against decisions on detailed plans and building permits. The Swedish Democrats believe that those who will appeal against this type of decision should also be property owners with a close interest in the matter. There are already major problems with long lead times in construction in Sweden today. We do not need to create more conditions for longer construction time. We believe that it is of course extremely important to have the right of appeal, but when you introduce such possibilities for certain organisations that do not have the related interest in the matter, you create the wrong conditions for appeal of building permits in Sweden. It is therefore important to follow the line that the Swedish Democrats advocate together in the joint reservation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, i.e. to make an announcement to the future government to review the implementation of the EU Directive and ensure that it is implemented at a minimum level so that the right of appeal is not made possible to such an extent that there are problems with lead times in the construction of Sweden. Madam President, I would like With those words, I support reservation 1.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-332	Madam President, I would like Does anyone think that planning procedures are fast and smooth today? In conversations with people, I still haven't heard anyone who thinks so. Of course, democratic processes can take time, but how long can they take? Of course, those directly affected should have the opportunity to make their voice heard, but perhaps we have given too many opportunities to do so today. Many planning procedures want to limit the number of complaints, as they believe that things should be a little smoother and simpler. It simply takes too long too much time with too broad a concept of who has cluttered. The social responsibility to look at matters lies historically and now on both the municipality and the county board. We believe that the municipality and the county administrative board can handle this responsibility. There is no need for anyone else to take advantage of the public interest. The proposal specifically proposes that environmental organisations should be made plain, which means that I fundamentally wonder what considerations and perspectives they should take into account that the county administrative board and the municipality have not already taken into account. The government makes two points that I have noted, namely that environmental organisations have already been given this right of appeal in practice and that they have not gone beyond the existing EU directive. I have no objection to the fact that this has already been introduced in practice. That can certainly be true, and it is claimed to be nothing new. However, the fact that we are not going further than the European directive, I doubt it. If so, it would be a completely new practice on how we legislate in this House. We are always the best in the class in Sweden. But I think we need to be as moderate as possible on this particular issue. Different types of planning processes are time-consuming, costly and complicated as they are. In a situation where we all want to go the other way towards simpler procedures that are faster and less costly, this feels completely wrong. However, we cannot evade the EU's big hand, but we must ensure that we do not do more than is necessary, as our reservation takes hold of. We, as well as several consultation bodies, fear that the increased complaints of environmental organisations that are now being introduced could lead to a delay in the construction and construction of high public interest and to an increase in costs for the development of the national economy. The government's efforts to transpose EU directives into Swedish law often bear the character of going beyond what the directives require. Against this background, we believe that there is reason to consider whether the requirements of the EIA Directive in the current respect can be introduced into Swedish law at a minimum level in accordance with reservation 1, to which I request approval.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-340	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU24 report to be approved. The European Commission has criticised Sweden's implementation of the EIA Directive. The EIA Directive means that for certain construction projects that are supposed to have a significant environmental impact, an assessment of their environmental impact must be made before they are allowed to occur, which I think is reasonable. Based on this criticism, the Government has proposed clarifications in the Plan and Construction Act based on what is already in force today. So it is not an extended piece of legislation that we are talking about, as some say and as some believe. At a time when awareness of the human impact on the climate and the environment is increasing – it was given a careful account in the previous dossier – it is strange that there are even reservations in the report. The proposal in the Government proposal concerns clarification of current law. If you are opposed to clarifying it, you must also ask yourself what the point is that existing law should be unclear. One might wonder whether Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats want to loosen up current case law, and if so, to what benefit. Is it wrong that we actually make an assessment of projects with significant environmental impacts? I think it's strange. If a project is considered to have a significant impact on the environment, it may seem logical that there is no legal uncertainty. As I have said in previous debates, it is the long-term and clarity that is demanded by the vast majority of parties in planning and construction. In this case, we Social Democrats believe that there is a need to clarify what actually applies. It provides good conditions for planning and construction. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to support the proposal contained in the CU24 report.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-346	Madam President, I would like The European Commission has expressed its views on how Sweden has implemented the EIA Directive. Some construction projects likely to have significant environmental impacts shall be subject to an assessment of their nature, size and location before they are allowed to be carried out. There should be no doubt that such adjustments to the law must be made. Nor is it a party that is opposed to Sweden making the necessary adjustments which are the result of EU membership. Over-implementing is otherwise something that we in the Center Party are critical of, Madam President, especially when they make it difficult and prevent for individuals and businesses. We share the concerns expressed in the reservation from the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats that environmental organisations should have no right to speak other than when a construction project has a direct environmental impact. There are many examples of unwieldy appeals from these organisations preventing private individuals from building as well. I have described earlier in this House how a well-known and successful Hallandan entrepreneur has had a villa in Falkenberg's hinterland appealed by a nature conservation association in the neighbouring municipality. Since the Commission has so clearly slapped Sweden's fingers, it looks dark to prevent this from becoming a law in this House tomorrow. But, Madam President, I would like us to come back in the future and evaluate this legislation in order to change it. The practice that is being applied and that already gives these organisations a right of redress is clearly not sufficient to ensure that the EIA Directive is complied with. We regret this and choose to support the proposal in the report. Since this is probably my last speech before the summer recess, I would like to wish the Presidents, the Chambers and, of course, the other Members a pleasant and pleasant summer in spite of all the circumstances that have arisen during the day.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-352	Madam President, I would like My colleagues in the committee have well explained the substance of the matter, so I am not going to do so in detail as I did in the previous debate. However, I would like to say a few words about what much of this debate has come to be about. It's about the court. Who has the right to appeal? Who has the right to be the voice? Is it only people in the immediate area who are affected themselves? We in the Green Party have as one of the opening pieces of our party programme that we want to be the voice of those who have none. In fact, I think this debate is about that. Who should be the voice of animals, nature and future generations if the individual chooses not to care about animals, nature and future generations? That is why I think it is good and I am pleased that we are making these changes today so that it becomes clear that even those who do not have their own voice have rights. Of course, there are proportions in this, but that's all there is to it. I am quite convinced that there are also people who, out of self-interest, appeal decisions on decisions to delay proceedings and make them long, so I think it is important and good that there is a majority who want to give the other voice when their lives are affected. With this, I support the proposal. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Presidium of Presidents, the Chambers and my dear colleagues in the Civil Committee one, yes, working summer. I'd think it would be like that for all of us. If we're lucky we might have time to celebrate some midsummer before we meet again here.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-359	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Government's proposal for an infrastructure bill with proposals on the orientation of infrastructure policy for the period 2022 – 2033. The proposal contains the financial framework and political priorities for the period. Let me be clear: this proposal is not enough. It is not enough to meet the great needs of increased travel by train. It is not enough to maintain our railways and roads. It is not enough to extend the cycle infrastructure to the extent necessary. It is not enough to meet our transport climate target of reducing emissions by at least 70% by 2030. Madam President, I would like It has sometimes been directly provocative to listen to the attempts of the Minister for Infrastructure and other government representatives to sell this infrastructure bill to the infrastructure industry, the environmental movement and the entire Swedish people under the impression that this is the century's initiative. For example, the Minister for Infrastructure said, "Bigger than Biden". In the bill, the financial framework is set at SEK 799 billion. Although it is a large sum and more than in previous proposals, it is far less than what is needed. From a historical perspective, these infrastructure investments are far too small. A few decades back, Madam President, infrastructure investment in Sweden was about 2% of gross domestic product. With this proposal, infrastructure investments will be a little over 1% of GDP annually. Whatever the Minister for Infrastructure is trying to give the impression, it is a fact that with the Government's proposal for an infrastructure bill, a number of important railway projects will not be completed in time. I am talking, for example, about Norrbotniabanan. I am talking about the double track between Gävle and Härnösand and about the new Ostkustbanan. I am talking about the four track between Uppsala and Stockholm, the new railway Alingsås– Gothenburg and the double track through Skåne between Helsingborg and Hässleholm. There will also be no adequate renovation of regional tracks such as Bohusbanan, Kinnekullebanan, Stångådalsbanan and Tjustbanan, to name a few. On the contrary, the threat of closure of regional routes is reinforced by government proposals. Madam President, I would like There are no new targeted initiatives for the Inland Line, the important over a hundred miles long railway from Gällivare down to Kristinehamn in Värmland. There will also be no new freight tracks to ports such as Ystad or newly built Stockholm Norvik Hamn south of Stockholm. Neither new rail to Sälenfjällen nor new rail connections Gothenburg– Oslo and Stockholm– Oslo are funded or even mentioned in this proposal. Then I have not even come to the greatest betrayal, namely the high-speed roads. The original proposal as well as the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal is to build these new main roads with borrowed funds as a separate industrial project. That's not gonna happen. Instead, the government chooses to move at snail speed and present an infrastructure bill where high-speed lines are still not fully funded. Not even the three priority stages Ostkustbanan, Gothenburg– Borås and new railway Lund – Hässleholm has sufficient funding. The construction of these three objects has not even been started. Madam President, I would like Speaking of the vote we had here earlier today and that the Riksdag has now expressed its distrust of Stefan Löfven and the Government, I think that the handling of high-speed roads is descriptive of the government's tone deafness to the parliamentary majority. As you know, there is a majority in the form of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Left Party to build high-speed roads quickly and efficiently. Had the government negotiated further with the Left Party, this issue could have been resolved. But our last negotiation meeting with the government on the high-speed routes took place, I think, on 16 January 2020. Since then, nothing has happened. Does this possibly have to do with the January agreement that the Left Party should be kept from any political influence to do? Yeah, I think so. In any case, it shows the government's inability to resolve an issue for which a majority could be easily found. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the main problem with the infrastructure proposal is the very starting point for it. The government continues to conduct infrastructure planning based on forecasts of increased traffic, not based on our policy objectives. Since the last infrastructure bill was drawn up, as you know, some things have happened. Since 2018, we have a climate law that says that all policy areas should contribute to and work towards achieving climate goals. We even have a separate target for reducing emissions from the transport sector. Emissions will be reduced by at least 70% by 2030. But in the government bill it is still forecast management that applies, not goal management. This can be seen, for example, in all the motorway projects still planned by the government. It is about Tvärnändning Södertörn here in Stockholm, new access routes to Förbyfart Stockholm, E22 in Skåne etc. We know that new motorways lead to increased motorism and increased emissions. Therefore, these projects and the whole forecasting are not acceptable from a climate perspective. It is not only we in the Left Party who say this, but also the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and most recently the Climate Policy Council. Our climate objective, along with other important objectives of equality and equality in the transport system, must be the guiding factor in infrastructure planning. In view of this, we in the Left Party have tabled a motion for an improved infrastructure policy. Our exercise briefly contains the following: We want to see a new policy direction for infrastructure policy in Sweden, where our political goals become governing, not forecasts of increased driving. In particular, the climate target shall have such a governing function. We also propose an increased financial framework. We want SEK 170 billion in addition to the Government's proposal for investments in rail and extended bicycle infrastructure. In this connection, I would also like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of Amendment No 26, which deals precisely with our increased framework. We also want SEK 60 billion more than the government for a financed maintenance plan for the railway system, so that all railway in Sweden can be upgraded and the maintenance debt worked off. We have SEK 9 billion more than the government for better road maintenance, especially in sparsely populated areas. Our proposal is also that the high-speed lines should be fully financed with borrowed funds and that the new main roads should be built as a coherent project and be ready by the beginning of 2030. In this way, the construction of the new main routes will not compete with other important infrastructure investments. With these proposals, the Left Party is the party that spends by far the most money to change the transport system so that it becomes modern, equal, equal and fully in line with our climate goals. We can do this because we have different priorities. We do not give priority to major tax cuts to already wealthy people, for example. With this proposal, it is not only a question of completing the high-speed lines, but also the Norrbotnia Line can be completed on time. The double track along the Norrland coast will also be completed, as well as the four track between Uppsala and Stockholm and new tracks between Alingsås and Gothenburg. We can also bring about the renovation of Inlandsbanan, double tracks through Skåne, the rescue of our regional tracks and the establishment of a number of important freight tracks to both ports and industries. We can do all this. We in the Left Party also hope that we can take the first steps towards building new, modern railway from our two largest cities, Gothenburg and Stockholm, to Norway's capital Oslo. With our proposals, we will also have robust government co-financing for the development of bicycle infrastructure. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by commenting on three statements contained in the report. An announcement is simply a decision by the Riksdag in which we urge the Government to implement our proposals. The first announcement is that we are proposing a funded investment in electrification of the transport sector. We want an increased investment in charging infrastructure along our roads, in parking spaces and meeting places and at sandwiches and other things. This charging infrastructure must also be coupled with charging infrastructure in the rest of Europe, so that you can charge your electric car not only in Sweden but also in Denmark, Germany, France and so on. It's the first announcement. The second announcement is that we want funding for the purchase of new icebreakers. That funding shall be within the framework of the infrastructure plan. Thirdly, we want to increase the Swedish Transport Administration's funding to 10%, for both maintenance and development of the state's transport infrastructure. This means that if Trafikverket has a project and the money is out at the end of the year, you can borrow some money from the coming years so that you do not have to finish the project and then start it again when the next year has started. All three announcements are based on motions from us in the Left Party. I am very pleased and proud that the proposals in our motion now win a political majority in the Swedish Parliament.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-390	Madam President, I would like Today, as I said, we are dealing with the Government's proposal for the infrastructure of the future or what is generally referred to as the infrastopp. At the same time, we deal with no less than 341 claims from general exercise time. At the outset, I would like to endorse our three reservations, Amendments Nos 28, 29 and 52. Otherwise, we Social Democrats support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like This bill proposes the financial framework for the next planning period, 2022 – 2033, totalling SEK 799 billion. This is an increase of 176 1⁄2 billion compared to the period 2018 – 2029. In addition, funds come from rail charges and congestion charges, which are estimated to amount to 77 billion. Overall, there will be a framework of SEK 876 billion. That is, of course, a lot of money, but basically the infrastructure bill is not about money but about what we can do with these resources and money. It's about jobs, the climate and the future. In the vote of censure today, it was difficult to believe that we are in the midst of a global pandemic. But that's actually the case. We are in a pandemic, no matter how many people are quarantined that Parliament chooses to gather in one place. Future investment in infrastructure will have a crucial impact on how we manage growth and jobs. An increased framework of 176.5 billion will, of course, affect this. Properly used will also be able to help us meet the climate targets and get the economy moving. When as much as 30% of emissions come from the transport sector, it is clear that future investments have a huge impact on the transition. Madam President, I would like For everyone involved in infrastructure, this is, of course, a great day. However, infrastructure is not only important for those in the industry or for users of roads or railways. It's so much bigger. It is the bloodstream itself throughout our society. If the trains don't go or if the road doesn't exist, you can't get to work or school. You can't meet friends and relatives if they don't live in your absolute vicinity. It is not possible to read the morning paper, and it is not possible to get to the hospital quickly if the accident is there. If shipping did not exist, we would find it difficult to import and export goods and thus lose a lot of jobs. Without the flight, we would find it difficult to get fast transportation of, for example, a new kidney that someone has been waiting for for for a long time. The infrastructure is simply the kit that holds modern society together. It also helps to create shared dreams of the future. It creates jobs and new housing. It contributes to meeting the objectives of the freight transport strategy and the shift from road to sea and rail. The overall transport policy objective is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply throughout the country. It is important and will also permeate the list of objects when it is eventually laid down in the national transport system plan. The whole must be acknowledged, and the pros and cons must be weighed against each other. All of Sweden must be given good opportunities to live, grow and develop. Transport infrastructure plays an important role. It contributes to equality and evens out gaps. It creates growth and contributes to regional development throughout the country. Madam President, I would like There are many requests. This testifies not least to the 341 exercise requests from general exercise time. Many of the Members' movements are not just about individual objects and projects, but just about the desire for how an individual object or project can contribute to the development of a city, a city, a region or the whole of our country. However, regardless of what the chairman of the committee says here in the speaker's chair, the infrastructure bill does not take a position on the individual objects, but it is about providing the framework and conditions for the projects that will eventually be established. Madam President, I would like Speaking of the speech by the chairman of the Committee on Transport, Left-wing party Jens Holm, who also referred to the vote of censure that we had in this House earlier today, it is clear that he spoke warmly in favour of high-speed trains. But he has just opened the door for Ulf Kristersson. Then you can look around in heaven for some money for high-speed trains and new main tracks! It becomes clear not least when you read the Moderates' exercise on this theme. Madam President, I would like It is a far-reaching process to develop an infrastructure bill. The Parliament's Transport Committee is involved in different ways, and I assume that representatives of all parties have, have, and will have a dialogue with representatives of municipalities and regions, for industries and interest groups to form a good understanding of the whole. One thing that I have been able to discern and that has emerged more than anything from all of those I have been in contact with is the message that cards should lie. This is precisely what the government clearly signals in the bill and in its communication about it. I also understand that in the Committee on Transport and Tourism there is some kind of common good attitude on this particular issue. That is why I am quite surprised that a majority in the committee has now shaped itself around including the funding of icebreakers in this. Let me be clear. There is no doubt that we Social Democrats see the importance of well-functioning shipping and that this presupposes that we have an icebreaker activity that works effectively even in difficult winter conditions. This is a prerequisite for our country to function. We are also well aware that our icebreaker fleet is getting old. Work has also begun here where the Swedish Maritime Administration works together Finnish Transport Administration in a design project. This should be ready by the end of this year. Anticipating the results of this work is not serious. Even now, pointing out the icebreakers as part of the economic framework we are now dealing with is premature and, of course, risks crowding out other objects. These are objects which already exist in the current investment plan and the fact that, in principle, all interests have said together that cards must be laid. Those of us who have entered the Swedish Transport Administration's preliminary work and documentation before the bill can state that there are no aces in the rock sleeve. The question you have to ask yourself is: What do you want to remove? On the same theme, I am also deeply concerned about Moderate action on the issue of high-speed trains. Perhaps the Moderates are the leading opposition party and claim to take over the prime minister's post. The Moderates' motion on the infrastructure bill seeks to maintain the same overall financial framework but, at the same time, proposes a reduction of the appropriations for the development of the transport system by a total of 33 billion. It is also noted that the infrastructure projects are underfunded. That claim may well stand for the Moderates, but they are still doing a great deal of thinking here, together with the Christian Democrats, who want to cut further into the means of developing the transport system. No one could have escaped the fact that the debate on high-speed trains has been going on for a long time in our country. It all began in earnest when the then moderate Prime Minister Reinfeldt appointed Sweden's negotiation with the assignment to develop draft principles for financing high-speed lines between Stockholm and Gothenburg and Stockholm and Malmö. The current plan includes funding for Lund–Hassleholm, Gothenburg– Borås and Linköping– Järna, which are included in the high-speed project. Of course, in an international context, we can consider whether 250 - 350 kilometres per hour are high speed and whether it is really high speed. In any case, however, a reduction in funding, as the Moderates propose, means that these projects are being rocked, and this at a time when investment is needed. Not least, they are needed for growth and to create faith in the future. Another proposal from the Moderates, in which they also receive the support of a majority in the Riksdag and in the Transport Committee, concerns funding credits for the Finnish Transport Administration. There, a notice states that the grant credit for Trafikverket should be 10 per cent. In their motion, the Moderates state that they want a return to 15 percent, as they claim was valid during Reinfeldt's reign. But that's not true. Let me be clear: the grant credit is governed by the Budget Act, which was last decided in 2011. So it was presented by – guess who! – the Moderate Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt. It states that the grant credit should be 3% but that it can temporarily be 10%. The Moderates obviously do not know how the Budget Act works, a law that they themselves put forward in the Riksdag. I must also emphasise that, for this year, the Finnish Transport Administration has a budget of 65 billion. A 10 % grant credit is therefore about 6.5 billion. I might think that's reasonable. Regardless of which government we have, we need to have good cost control. If the budget is then exceeded by 6.5 billion, I may think that this still gives rise to special decisions in the government. I would also like to point out that 3% is almost 2 billion. Yes, this seems to be the time, Madam President. In the quest to press to the government, you are looking for the lowest common denominator whether it is about bringing down the government or just getting an announcement. Correspondingly, we can find a majority in favour of a declaration on the development of electricity infrastructure, even though we know, or should at least know, that the investments of electricity infrastructure are in Category 22. And Category 22 is handled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. However, the infrastructure bill, which we are now discussing, highlights electricity infrastructure as an important element in reducing emissions from transport. And the government is working on this issue, not least in an infrastructure commission that will produce an action plan – that's about what they're aiming for here. It also works to develop work on a national electrification strategy. If you had only spoken to your colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, they would have been able to inform you of which budget line electrification is being financed and where this should be decided. But perhaps you think that the electricity infrastructure should also be financed within the infrastructure framework. It brings me unsearched back to the discussion of laid cards lies. Which items should be removed? Is it the long-awaited main railway between Linköping and Järna or the main railway between Gothenburg and Borås, which, regardless of what you think about high-speed trains, is so well needed to get the regional traffic in order so that people can get to and from work in a good and efficient way? I demand an answer. Which projects should be removed? Madam President, I would like We have a real chance of investing our way out of the crisis. In this way, we can manage the climate and at the same time create new jobs and a better society for everyone in our country. Through the construction of society, we can create equality and equality. The Pandemine has hit our country hard. It has had serious consequences for the Swedish economy, and many have lost their job. Sweden was not perfect before the crisis. Climate emissions must continue to decrease. Emissions from the transport sector are concerned – of course. It's tight on the tracks. There are problems after years of neglected maintenance. We therefore need courageous investments in more rail so that more people can travel sustainably and so that goods can be transported climate-smartly. We want to invest in electric roads and charging infrastructure to secure electrification of the vehicle fleet and pave the way for electric drive, hydrogen and other sustainable fuels. Eventually, this will also have to happen in the case of shipping and aviation. With investments in maintenance, we will be able to equip the whole of Sweden strongly. We Social Democrats know that we create new jobs and can solve social problems when we invest in the whole country and in the climate transition. We Social Democrats know that investment in infrastructure will make Sweden stronger.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-428	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on the so-called appropriation credit. There is a motion from the Left Party that it should be raised to 10 percent. It is not strange at all that authorities can have a grant credit. One might wonder why we land at 10%. Well, that's exactly the amount that the Finnish Transport Administration itself wants. That's what they've been recording to the Department of Infrastructure. Why, then, is there a need for some flexibility in the handling of the Swedish Transport Administration's money? Well, there were a large number of maintenance projects on the railway side that had to be completed a few years ago because the money was over that year. Then they tried to start them the following years. Had the Swedish Transport Administration had a grant credit, this would not have happened. They repeatedly went to the government and appealed for a decision that they could receive a grant credit, and the government said no. That is why we are now putting our foot down and making sure that we get things right. Teres Lindberg tells me that cards are laid. I think that is a bit problematic from a climate perspective, because we now have a climate law and new climate targets. Should old motorway projects remain in infrastructure planning? Is there nothing to revise on the basis of the new climate law that has come? And linked to this is Norrbotniabanan, 27 mil new railway along the Norrland coast up to Luleå, which will reduce emissions by over 80 000 tonnes. We in the Left Party promised that Norrbotniabanan will be completed by 2030. Can Teres Lindberg also promise that Norrbotniabanan will be ready by 2030?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-431	Madam President, I would like I apologise for exceeding the speaking time. Sometimes the heart is filled with a lot. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Jens Holm for the questions. First of all, it concerns the grant credit. I have never expected the Left Party to be the ones who take the great responsibility for the Swedish economy. On the other hand, I expected the Moderates to have a perspective on this issue and not to risk untruths, even, in their own budget motion. I think it is quite serious for a party that claims the Prime Minister's power. When we talk about infrastructure planning, we need a long-term horizon. There needs to be long-term perspectives and long-term conditions. Just Norrbotniabanan is included in the current investment plan. For us Social Democrats, it is obvious that it should remain. What concerns me even more is the fact that Jens Holm has today opened the door for Ulf Kristersson, whose party lifted the Norrbotnia Line out of infrastructure planning. If they had not, it would already have been there today, because we Social Democrats brought it in under the previous government. So I would rather be concerned about Jens Holm's actions right now than about anything else when we talk about infrastructure, because if you bring the devil into bed you also have to live with it. It will not simply be for you to get through the demands you make. Just look at the movements on this theme. If I were Jens Holm, I would rather be concerned for myself. I would be concerned about the policy that you yourself are trying to highlight.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-435	I would like to remind you of the language used.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-436	Madam President, I would like I regret the high tone. What we are seeing is a government party that does not yet seem to have understood that it does not have a majority in the Swedish parliament. You expect the Left Party to just gap and swallow when it comes to exactly everything that comes from Stefan Löfven and Annie Lööf. We won't take it, Teres Lindberg, not another day. We have not released a new majority, and we have always said: we want Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, but he cannot pursue neoliberal politics. Somewhere you actually get to put your foot down. I asked Teres Lindberg about the climate target and whether it can somehow get the government to revise the infrastructure bill. It is clear that there are no such ambitions on the part of the government. There is not a single motorway project that has been removed from the infrastructure bill. I find this problematic, because motorway projects cost a great deal of money in addition to increasing emissions. They cost so much money that the government cannot afford to finance either the high-speed roads, which are so much talked about, or the Norrbotnia Line – we in the Left Party were pushing the government to bring it back into the planning. Now there is money to build a few kilometers of rails north of Umeå. Then the money's over again. As far as Norrbotniabanan is concerned, we have been appealed to in Parliament. It has appealed to the government to ensure that we get full funding so that we can complete this project on time! But you don't get that from the government, because there's no money.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-440	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to remind Mr Holm that we are raising the framework by 176 1⁄2 billion. It also provides room for adding new projects, new objects. I think it's necessary, of course. At the same time, I know that Jens Holm and his party are consistently opposed to roads. But it must also be seen that our whole country is going to work. We will never be able to build trains so that every citizen of our country has a railway station to go to. Many will continue to need the road to transport themselves. Freight transport will continue to have to be carried out on the road. Then it is clear that it is good and important that they can be made as sustainable as possible. Rather, we need to ensure that we get a change, but to completely remove road investments does not solve any problems but only creates new ones. Nor should it be forgotten that new roads and investments in roads also offer opportunities for new ways of transport in a climate-smart way. Without roads, the bus does not arrive. In a future, we may travel exclusively by electric buses rather than by buses that run on fossil fuels. I wouldn't be that concerned at all. Let me be clear about speed. We Social Democrats, at least as long as we have government power, will ensure that the Norrbotnia Line is built. But to say a specific year because when it should be completed is of course a bit problematic. It takes time to build a railroad. It is far more complicated than what Jens Holm is trying to assert here. But it will be built as long as we get to decide. There is no doubt about this.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-444	Madam President, I would like There are many other things that take attention on a day like this, but despite this, this must be the most important debate in the parliamentary term, at least for us in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. The infrastructure is a prerequisite for Sweden to function and for people to be able to get to and from their jobs and pick up children at preschool. It is also a prerequisite for companies to be able to access raw materials and transport their final products to customers. An efficiently planned and well-functioning infrastructure is the prerequisite for jobs and growth throughout the country. We agree with the government on the importance of spending more money on infrastructure. The fact is, Mr President, that our framework is the same as that of the government. However, we have chosen to make a slightly different priority within the framework. The Swedish Transport Agency was very clear in its basis for the infrastructure bill: D et needed more and better maintenance. Maintaining the facilities we have in terms of roads, rail, ports and airports is also the most socially profitable we can use the money for. What we've done is re-prioritise from new investments to maintenance. It is money that can quickly make a difference – a difference for all who drive on the 1,200 km road where Trafikverket reduced speed due to the poor condition of the road. It will make a difference for all those who are stuck on trains that are stationary due to faults caused by the lack of maintenance of our railway installations. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates support the overall transport policy objectives. It stresses the importance of ensuring a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply throughout the country. In a world where technological development is moving at a furious rate and we can actually see that all modes of transport have a fossil-free future, this development must be acknowledged, but this must also be taken into account when setting priorities for future infrastructure investments. The Moderates protect taxpayers' money – it is not unknown – and want to design a modern infrastructure policy that takes into account the environment, jobs and growth. To secure jobs and growth throughout the country, a well-functioning infrastructure is needed. The Moderate plan is about how we create conditions for the whole of Sweden. People and businesses should be able to rely on basic functions in society to function and deliver the intended benefits as planned. We therefore prioritise the care of the existing infrastructure while making efforts to strengthen the transport system where it is needed to ensure that we get a functioning infrastructure throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The issue of high-speed trains has taken almost all the oxygen into the infrastructure debate in recent years. The criticism is extensive, from leading researchers and other experts but also from the Swedish National Audit Office. The price tag is just growing, and the timetable is being pushed forward. When will the government realise that we are too few in Sweden to make it profitable to build high-speed roads? Furthermore, the environmental and climate arguments are falling together as a failed soufflé when the other modes of transport are moving towards fossil freedom. We like to see investments in rail but prioritise building on what we have, complementing and optimizing to increase capacity. Our goal is a well-functioning railway network where it is possible to drive up to 250 kilometres per hour on important routes. We also want to see a more efficient and coherent process in which the benefits of the various investments made can be seen as a whole and more quickly. Mr President, I would like to Swedish infrastructure has big and serious problems. A majority of all major projects tend to be significantly more expensive and much delayed. The Moderates' analysis is that there is a need for a more comprehensive analysis of the procurement and implementation of both maintenance and new construction. We need to review the possibility of improved organisation, better procurement documentation and better control of plant status. A plan is needed to address the maintenance debt and also a plan to finance decided projects. We need to take a more comprehensive approach to all these processes in order to ensure that we get an effective drive and currency for our tax money. The government chose when it took office to reduce the grant credit that the Swedish Transport Administration had. I'll admit, Teres Lindberg, we were wrong in our motion. We wrote 15%, but it was 10%, which was maximum under the Budget Act, just as Teres Lindberg mentioned in her speech. The Director General himself has been out saying that for large projects and large maintenance projects that run over several years means the low level that the government has set for the grant credit, 3 per cent, that you have to finish a job because the money ends in November and then start work again after you have passed the end of the year. This leads to increased costs and delays. It is gratifying that there is now a majority. Jens Holm talked about that it was a motion from the Left Party, but we other parties also had that in our movements. That is why we now have a majority in favour of a proposal for a declaration that the government should ensure that appropriations are increased. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy did not wish to make a statement on this, which suggests that all the allegations made by Mr Lindberg in his speech are not correct. Otherwise, they would have liked to speak. Mr President, I would like to The electrification of the Traffic Act is important for the transformation. In order for people and companies to dare to buy an electric vehicle, they need to feel confident that they can charge everywhere. You should not have to opt out of buying an electric car, electric bus or small truck powered by electricity from concerns about not being able to charge it. Here we also have a proposal for an announcement to the government. My picture of how the electrification work is done in this country is that there is a lot of talk and a little workshop. The Minister for Infrastructure goes country and country around and takes credit for what the regions do. An electrification commission has been set up with a lot of competent people, but there is very little workshop. It is the workshop that we need to see in order for people to dare to buy an electric car. The proposal for an announcement indicates an impatience of a majority here in Parliament. We want to see a funded plan. Buying a car is something you do in the long term. Therefore, people must be able to feel confident that it will work out, that they dare to invest in an electric car and that they can expect to charge at home most of the time. You need to know what the plan is. It just needs to be a workshop. Mr President, I would like to In addition to high-speed trains, aviation is responsible for a large part of the area of conflict in the infrastructure area. Air travel is needed in Sweden to strengthen jobs and growth throughout the country. Despite the importance of aviation for Sweden, it occupies a very small part of the infrastructure bill. The reactions to the government's sad handling of the Bromma issue and the commitment this has triggered around the country is a clear indication of how important aviation is for the whole of Sweden to live and develop. Aviation also has a fossil-free plan, and the overall work of preparing all domestic flights for future fossil-free travel needs to be intensified. The introduction of electric flights will change the aviation market and the need for regional airports will increase. They are important today, both for people to travel but not least for socially important flights and for emergency preparedness. Not least, the pandemic has shown us that. The Moderates want to turn all airports into standby airports in the long term. Finally, we want moderates when it comes to aviation to expand Arlanda and the infrastructure around the airport with the aim of becoming the leading airport in the Nordic region with more direct flights out into the world. Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is an important and under-utilised resource for freight transport. We have water around large parts of our coast and also a lot of inland waterways. A few weeks ago a commuter service started with a barge between Norvik and Västerås. It is an exciting development that, if it gets moving, can relieve both road and rail. Swedish maritime competitiveness needs to be strengthened through a review of our national requirements and costs to ensure that this is not overall significant competitive disadvantages. Shipping is unique in that shipping companies can flag their boats in any country they want. If Sweden provides worse conditions for shipping, we risk today Swedish flagged boats being flagged in another country with lower climate requirements and poorer working environment. Another problem for shipping is the costs associated with driving ships in Swedish waters, not least fairway charges. The model for financing the Swedish Maritime Administration that we have today is not sustainable. And there is an announcement from the Riksdag to review it, an announcement that the government has not yet taken hold of. In order for shipping in northern Sweden to work in winter time, icebreakers are required. The Swedish fleet of icebreakers consists of three ships built in the 70's. They need to be replaced in the near future to ensure freight transport from northern Sweden also in the winter, and the organisation needs to be thoroughly investigated. Here, too, we have an announcement, which was an important statement from a majority in committee. I think we all had a lot of contact with companies in northern Sweden and with various industry organisations on the issue of the need to have the signal that the icebreakers are on the go. In addition, work is ongoing with Finland, which is important that we do not lose momentum. Then our icebreakers risk being much more expensive than necessary. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, of course, we support all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation 32.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-472	Mr President, I would like to I thought at first I'd just ask questions. But I was apostrophated that I made accusations about the grant credit. Actually, I didn't. Possibly, I accused the Moderates of not being able to count and of not having an eye on how the Budget Act works. Maria Stockhaus also confirmed that 5 percent was wrong. 10 or 15 per cent is not so careful, it is only about 3 000 million SEK here or there. This is what concerns the issue of appropriations. I think that the budget law works quite well as it is today. I think it is important that not least Trafikverket, which works with large projects, has an opportunity to go to the government and get an increased funding credit. I am not so sure, however, that they should always be allowed to go over their budget by 10% instead of 3% for all the other authorities. But it seems the Moderates are, and it doesn't matter if it's 6 or 9 billion here or there. But that is quite a lot of money even for a country like Sweden and for the treasury, I would say. These sloppy claims come from a party that actually claims government power. I think maybe you should think about it once and twice before. It is precisely to the link with my own speech and the new efforts that the Moderates want to bring in here, I must reiterate my question that I put earlier in the speaker's chair. What projects do the Moderates want to lift out? What is it that will not be included in the card is there for the Moderates?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-476	Mr President, I would like to Now I think that Trafikverket with its huge projects has a bit of a special position in relation to other authorities. Therefore, there is reason to review their appropriations. Then I may think that being able to count is essential when you are in a government position. Then this is the table card is a bit interesting. The existing plan is underfunded. It takes a number of billions more to manage to build these projects. At the press conference when the bill was presented, both the Minister for Infrastructure and the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Climate Change were clear that the high-speed roads should be in the field. In addition, the Minister for Infrastructure is now going country and country around and talking about all the new projects that are going into the plan, for example Oslo– Stockholm and the Öresund connection. I can say that it does not take very advanced knowledge of mathematics to understand that this equation does not go together. We're opting out of the high-speed train. SEK 400 billion is what the experts say the cost of them will land on. In fact, it is reasonable that I should like to say to Teres Lindberg that it is the government that will have to give priority away. The government absolutely cannot add any new projects. But it is about SEK 400 billion, in principle half of this framework. Half of the projects must therefore be removed, Teres Lindberg. Which projects should be removed?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-480	Mr President, I would like to My question did not concern this. This is about you now wanting to take the icebreakers into the framework of infrastructure planning. You want to raise the electricity infrastructure within the framework of infrastructure planning. This means that the overall framework is smaller for everything else. That goes without saying. At the same time, when you read your budget motion, you see that you want to cut back on new investments because you are against high-speed trains. To do so means by definition that the main railway projects Linköping– Järna, Gothenburg– Borås and Helsingborg– Hässleholm are actually in a rocking process. Which projects do you want to remove? To whom in Sweden do you want to tell them that they will not be able to transport more easily and that regional traffic will not work better? In the planning at the moment, there are no resources available for the routes between here. They're not there. You must therefore remove something that already exists. But you don't want to talk about it. This may seem to me to be a very serious concern. It is very easy to claim government power and to stand here and promise gold and green forests but do not tell us where the money will come from. Which projects are going away, Maria Stockhaus? I want you to answer that question. And I want you to answer to the entire Swedish people which projects the Moderates want to remove from infrastructure planning.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-483	Mr President, I would like to Teres Lindberg and I must have learned mathematics in very different ways. We Moderates have redistributed SEK 33 billion. Teres Lindberg's party wants to lift the entire high-speed track with SEK 400 billion. I think it is Teres Lindberg who is the Swedish people who owe the answer when it comes to what should be prioritised away. We want to build new routes – those in the existing plan. But we do not want high-speed standards on them. There is a certain difference in the cost of building for high-speed trains and building for ordinary rail traffic. That's a big part. That's why we can afford new icebreakers and the charging infrastructure. I even think we can afford new infrastructure policy projects, such as Oslo – Stockholm. It will not be possible for the Social Democrats and this government, if they remain, to afford 400 billion SEK for high-speed trains, according to both the Minister for Infrastructure and the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, to enter this plan. That's half the money in the plan. This means that there is no money for the projects that are already there. Teres Lindberg owes the answer. That's 400 billion kroner you have to take away. This means that those who want Norrbotniabanan built can look in the stars after there is a new rail in place there. Should the high-speed lines take precedence, northern Sweden will not receive a new railway.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-486	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the infrastructure of the future. Should we invest in space tourism, flying cars or perhaps hyperloops, which can reach speeds of between 600 and 1,000 kilometers per hour? No, Mr President, this debate is not quite that funny. If the Social Democrats continue to rule this country, Sweden – however, in quite a long time – will have the world's newest, the world's most outmoded and the world's slowest high-speed railway. It's nothing to brag about right away. The question is when does the government put that proposal in a moth bag? The Swedish Democrats want to build more rail, but then smart rail – a railway that can be used to the maximum, with both freight and passenger transport. I was even more convinced when, at the last meeting of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we talked about the fact that Europe is trying to work together on a common structure and to make it easier for passengers to change trains. Then we are talking about fast timetables on the basis of the node principle. In simple words, trains should be on schedule at a station where other trains are also there, so that people can change line and travel on. This means that super-fast trains are not a major advantage. More important is that the trains come on time, and here the important thing about such a system: that the trains go. What is needed for the trains to go? Yes, there's a lot of maintenance. We need a railroad we can trust around the clock, all year round. Yesterday I read the following in the newspaper: and even today the train traffic between Gothenburg and Strömstad, and between Varberg and Uddevalla, will be replaced by bus until midnight. The risk of sun bends and fires in forests and land is too great. 中 Solar curves can be avoided by having good sleepers with better fortifications, Mr President, and by having ballast between the grinders. Fires are a bit more difficult, but I will come back to that later in the speech. In winter it is not much better – a little snow and both rail and road traffic stand still. We need to be able to trust our infrastructure. When you book a trip, I think it's more important that what's agreed is kept. There will be great concern when the train is late, Mr President: how do I get to the next accession? How do I get out of the station? We Swedish democrats believe that the modes of transport should be linked in the construction of infrastructure. But the infrastructure must also be cared for. It costs a lot of tax money to build our roads and railways, and if they are maintained they are not like throwing the money into the lake. Mr President, I would like to In order for existing rail to improve, we should not only maintain but also expand and trim the system so that we can get more traffic in the facility. It can be about building meeting tracks, double tracks or four tracks or about longer platforms and expanding railway yards so that we can receive the trains of the future. They are 1050 metres long, while today we have only 630 metres long trains in Sweden. These are very short trains internationally. Sweden is vulnerable; we only have a fixed link to the rest of Europe, namely the Öresund Bridge. The Swedish Democrats want the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate another fixed connection for freight trains, passenger trains and road traffic – especially now that the Fehmarn Belt tunnel is being built. Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely sure that we can rely on the government to honour the committee's announcement of having a redundancy in the railway ferries from Ystad and Trelleborg to Poland and Germany. Today, Ystad has no rail traffic by ship and, as I have heard, the railway ferry companies have not received financial resources from the government to secure the railways. Mr President, I would like to I told you earlier that I'd come back to the fires. Here's a problem. Over the past few years, we have become aware that forest fires have increased in number and extent, and it is currently burning in Mönsterås forests. In Sweden we need good preparedness, and it would be a great advantage if we also had large capacity in the form of our own planes or helicopters so that we can quickly put out the fires. For this we need regional airports, Mr President. We need them to travel, to extinguish fires and to handle the ambulance flight and the defense, and more. Sweden should make the regional airports that are willing to set up at emergency airports and also pay what it costs to keep them in readiness. Mr President, I would like to You might wonder why people buy SUVs when they live in town. But that may not be surprising given the lack of maintenance of the roads, potholes, and more. Stadjeepar can handle this environment much better. And are speed reductions on the roads about a zero vision, or is it just an effect of poor maintenance? We Swedish democrats have been called down by angry citizens, and I guess we are not the only party. The Finnish Transport Agency slows down the speed of a lot of roads and blames that it is about saving lives, but in fact it is often because there is no economy to maintain the road standard. Instead of maintaining the road, the Finnish Transport Agency is lowering the speed. Soon you have to go to the dealership and ask: How slow is this car to drive? Joke aside – we must keep to our infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to Is there any shipping? If you read the financial planning framework for 2022 - 2033, you start to wonder. It is true that transport is to be moved from road to rail or shipping. But where are the investments in shipping? One committee majority was very concerned about the breaking of ice. The Swedish icebreakers live on overtime, and at least three of them need to be replaced as soon as possible. We proposed an announcement that they should be included in a national plan coming in 2022. The government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, opposes this proposal. Icebreakers are, as you know, no cheap boats. When will these sums be obtained if not now that the government has submitted the largest budget for at least my time? It's almost 900 billion. Nor do the government and its partners want to increase funding from the current 3% to 10% in order to give the opportunity to complete projects instead of having them wait until the next budget. I see my speaking time is running out, Mr President. I have been told most things, so I would just like to take this opportunity to say quickly that we are behind all our reservations but that I am only in favour of reservation 25.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-504	Mr President, I would like to The main part of this debate is, of course, the bill submitted to Parliament for its opinion today. The main piece today, however, is something quite different; perhaps there is room to ask questions about this too. The infrastructure bill was prepared by the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government together. It's good. Is it good enough? No. I have said before in this House and in these contexts that the day when a government or parliament makes a decision that contains enough of everything, the sun does not rise. But it may be good enough to move on. We in the Center Party had some entry values as a party when we sat down with the government and negotiated this bill. It was about climate responsibility and that national and international commitments are valid and should color this bill. Check it out! This is a very heavy part of this bill. We try to meet, meet and provide conditions for full accessibility throughout the country and for all modes of transport with a strengthened climate responsibility. It was about the really big commitments that have been for a very long time to make the railway main arteries in our country work better, like new main tracks in the south, Norrbotniabanan in northern Sweden and further railway initiatives in northern Sweden. Check it out – it's included! It was about road maintenance, with a focus on bearing capacity and frost securing as well as functionality and availability all year round, on both the large and the small roads throughout the country. This too receives solid attention in this bill. Check it out, Mr President. Rail maintenance has often been discussed. During my ten twelve years in Parliament's Transport Committee, the most discussed question has been: How do we better maintain the rail system? This is solidly written in a bill that points out both the main arteries and the extraordinary importance of the smaller regional railways together, because it is a system. Very much of the industrial structures that exist in our country are completely dependent on apparently fairly low traffic rail systems to reach out to their market in and outside Sweden. These industries are often of great importance for us to make the transition we have made in terms of climate commitments, and they are spread throughout the country. Check it out, Mr President. This bill connects the five modes of transport. I have heard it said here that shipping and air transport are not mentioned, but if you say so, Mr President, you have not read the bill. Perhaps this should be done before entering into such a debate. The proposal on transport infrastructure has always financed roads and railways, since this concerns funding to the Finnish Transport Administration. There are elements in the current national plan that deal with large marine commitments and flight commitments. This bill opens up an even more intermodal approach to connecting the modes of transport and to making a mantra a reality and moving heavy, long-distance traffic from road to rail and shipping. There are openings to go from talk to workshop; the person reading the bill sees that they are clearly assigned there. The Center Party has been pushing for years for IT – information technology – to be regarded as a mode of transport. It does not say it, the fifth mode of transport, – that is not how far the Center Party reached in the negotiations. But it is mentioned as an absolute prerequisite for the intermodal, transport-efficient and environmentally smart solution. Check it out, Mr President. This bill raises the needs of the whole country for investment, maintenance and accessibility for people and for goods. It also highlights the role of regional participation and the regional political level in making this work in reality. Mr President, I would like to Last Thursday I was in Torsås, a small town south of Kalmar. It is a small municipality that, together with the region in which the municipality operates for several years, has worked to get to a cycle path. It's completely tied up. They took their best road engineers and calculated that they can do this and can finance it. They then went to Trafikverket, and back came a cost that was two to three times higher. We've got to get a lex Torsås. There is no point in this Parliament allocating funds year after year that will never be used, because the second best solution to achieve a functioning transport infrastructure for something as simple as cycling is always rejected. The second best is not good enough; the best is the enemy of the second best. That is not the way to deal with this. By giving the regional political level a great influence in the work, more things will be done. This is part of this bill. It has been discussed in this debate whether the state needs to have a reliable or not reliable partner. I can assure the House that I have not met with any political representative from any party – and there are quite a few different parties out there in Sweden; the amount is greater than it is at present in this House – without the person as the first point having raised the following: if the state has said something, settled something or negotiated, stand firm for God's sake! Don't get out of the way! Towards state planning is planned for housing construction and is done community and regional planning. Years of preparation will be closed; the state will not be able to get out of the way. This was one of the basic conditions, and it is included in this bill. Here we discuss events in our surrounding world, continentally disconnected from Central Europe, Norway and so on. Anyone who reads the bill, Mr President, can see that this is also included. Transport efficiency is included here. The Center Party has pushed, and will push, very hard for longer and heavier vehicles, whether it be road or rail infrastructure. This is a framework decision. Following the parliamentary decision tomorrow, this goes on to the Swedish Transport Administration with instructions from the government that we had until this morning; now it is an expeditionist. I do not really know, but those who initiated the vote this morning will know what is happening now. It would normally have been a government decision with a directive to the Finnish Transport Administration to present a very concrete proposal in October. Then it would be a referral to the country's regions, municipalities, business organisations and so on and then come back to the Government Office for definition in a concrete national plan around this time next year. That's how infrastructure planning is done in our country. The fact that concrete projects are mentioned in lots in a bill has never happened, and let us hope, for God's sake, that it never does. This is not how we build – long-term, stable and with a commitment across the country – road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, shipping, aviation or IT in our country. In addition to the bill, a number of exercises are handled from general exercise time. The Center Party has, of course, followed up its reservations in it. Most of it is very well satisfied in the bill. That's why it's good. Nevertheless, we have chosen to reserve ourselves against the three announcements, that is to say, that the Center Party requests the approval of reservations 28, 29 and 52. In addition, the Center Party is in favour of reservation 6, which concerns a particularly important issue, i.e. equality of treatment in traffic.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-528	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson mentioned both the climate issue and the transport efficiency and that it is included in the government proposal, and that's how it is. There are often many fine formulations in government proposals, but what really makes something happen is if it is a little more than just fine formulations. It's got to be direct control. I have read the referrals from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council, which have said that we now have a climate law, a climate policy framework and even a specific emissions target for the transport sector. Emissions will be reduced by at least 70% by 2030. This must have an impact on infrastructure planning. However, both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council regret that they do not see that this has somehow had any impact on the infrastructure bill. They and also researchers from KTH, for example, highlight the importance of perhaps not being able to assume that the card is in the case of large-scale road projects, which consume huge amounts of money and which will lead to very large emissions. I do not see a single road project being proposed to be lifted out of infrastructure planning. I would therefore like to ask Anders Åkesson: In what way has our climate policy framework had an impact on the infrastructure bill? I would also like to ask why you are not proposing to finance the construction of high-speed rail lines, so that they can be built quickly and efficiently in separate order. Unfortunately, with this proposal, the high-speed rail lines will not be ready for many decades, if they do so.
i-Mv2UitBgyRo6TFb8NKFKV5	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the questions, Jens Holm! I would like to start with a question to Jens Holm. Jens Holm is a very committed traffic politician, a very skilled chairman of Parliament's Transport Committee and very proper. With what ambition did Jens Holm go to Parliament this morning? Was it to create the conditions for making a good decision on the transport infrastructure of the future, which, immediately after a parliamentary decision tomorrow, will be handled by a strong government that will, on the basis of the bill, give instructions to the Finnish Transport Agency, act and produce a concrete proposal for a new national transport plan during the autumn? That's the normal time, Jens Holm. Or did Jens Holm go to Parliament this morning in order to create a worry, a government chaos? I know that this has nothing to do with traffic policy, but the action of the party that Jens Holm represents in this House has a direct impact on the policy area that we are currently discussing. I'm a little surprised. It would have been easier, Mr President, to answer Jens Holm's questions if we had not thrown the country into parliamentary chaos. If Jens Holm reads the bill, he sees that there are clear instructions that the climate legislation and the commitments that Sweden has made nationally and internationally should be complied with and taken into account. Now applicable national plan and landscape objects, regardless of the mode of transport involved, will also be tested, Jens Holm, in the proposal that the Swedish Transport Administration will present.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-536	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to my question about loan financing for high-speed lines. I would like to remind you that this is an issue in which my party and Anders Åkesson's party have long felt the same. Our parties have even sat in the same negotiating room with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Infrastructure and discussed this issue. At least I had the view that the Center Party was in favour of building the high-speed lines in a separate organisational form and that the money should be borrowed so that they do not compete with other important objects. I also think it was an interesting answer from Anders Åkesson that objects should be tested based on our new climate target. But does it mean, Anders Åkesson, that cards are not lying? Does this mean, for example, that a number of large-scale road projects can be removed from infrastructure planning precisely with reference to our climate objectives? That is not what Teres Lindberg from the Social Democrats said here before, and that is not what the Minister for Infrastructure himself has said. Åkesson asked with what ambition I went here. I came here with the ambition that we should have a powerful government that understands that you are a minority government and that needs to talk to the parties in Parliament. We in the Left Party have been very clear. We have been saying for two and a half years: we do not want market rents. If you push through that proposal, we will stop you as a government. We will do everything we can to stop you. And that is exactly what we have done, so Anders Åkesson, Annie Lööf and their party can now go back and meditate a little on the so-called January agreement and paragraph 44 on market rents. If you remove it, we can start talking to a new government again.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-540	Mr President, I would like to This is a new bill. Every four years approximately one of these is assumed in the Swedish Parliament. This means that it is transformed by a directive to the Finnish Transport Agency, based on the proposal, the directives and the legislation to which they refer, to develop a proposal for a new national transport plan. Of course, all objects will be tested according to current Swedish legislation. It is so, however, about what Jens Holm brings up around new roads, that I very often also encounter questions about new main tracks. I would say, Mr President, that whatever transport infrastructure we are going to finance and build, it is a huge challenge to build it in such a way that both the construction and its use have the least possible impact on the climate. This too, Mr President, contains proposals for solutions. As for how we finance new roads and railways and maintain those we have, this bill leads to a framework decision that is about a government, which will now be after Jens Holm's awakening this morning, to give SEK 437 billion for new investments. If the Centre Party prevails, Mr President, a substantial proportion of these will be distributed over the time horizon involved in building new main roads and new roads and maintaining those we have, so that the construction of the new main roads can be started and speeded up in their construction.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-543	Mr President, I would like to As this is our last debate before the summer in the area of the Transport Committee, I would like to take this opportunity to wish all my colleagues a nice summer once the debate is over. I would also like to wish all of you a nice summer. Mr President, I would like to We support the committee's proposal for three announcements to the government regarding electrification of the transport sector and functioning charging infrastructure throughout Sweden, the financing of new icebreakers and that the Swedish Transport Administration's grant credit should be increased to 10%. We also support all our reservations, but for the gain of time we only ask for reservation 4. Mr President, I would like to Although we see that the rail maintenance efforts of recent years have resulted in better frequency of service, we still have major problems with maintenance, which means that trains do not always arrive on time. We have also made too little investment, which means that freight trains, long-distance and regional traffic compete for time on the track. We see how today's icebreakers are becoming exhausted. Yet the government chooses not to deal with these in this bill. Furthermore, we see how aviation has been hit by its greatest crisis ever. Yet we do not see that the government is taking long-term measures to ensure this important part of the Swedish infrastructure. We also see how our roads are falling apart. Increasing numbers of people are suffering from increasingly poor roads, which makes it difficult for both the business community and those living outside our major cities. The Finnish Transport Agency reduces speeds in large parts of the country on the grounds that it does not have enough resources to renovate the roads, which has been highlighted by the Transport companies via the Road Facts website. We also see that investments in and renovation of BK4 roads take too long, which makes it difficult for our business community to use the BK4 system before it is extended throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to The Government is investing SEK 799 billion in the period 2022 – 2033, of which SEK 165 billion in maintaining state railways, SEK 197 billion in maintaining state roads and SEK 437 billion in the development of the transport system. This is a lot of money, but if you read what the Swedish Transport Administration has said before, you can see that they felt that an increase of 25 percent was needed to cope with the lack of maintenance. Taking into account different bases of calculation, the Government has in practice increased the appropriations by 20 per cent. At the same time, resources have been allocated in such a way as to increase investment and in practice reduce maintenance, which means that all our current railways and roads will continue to deteriorate. The Finnish Transport Agency was clear that it wanted a possible high-speed train to be handled outside the regular framework. But the government chooses to put it in the framework, which means that 165 billion are locked into this project, which in turn means that other projects are forced to stand back. Trafikverket, Riksrevisionen and various parts of the business community state that if you are to build high-speed trains, it must be done in your own organisation, both from an economic perspective and especially from a time perspective. If high-speed trains are to be profitable, they must be built for 5 to 6 years, not for 15 to 20 years. The government's decision to include high-speed trains in the regular framework is therefore incredibly surprising. Several of the railway companies and the Swedish National Audit Office have criticised the introduction of the new digital system Ertms. The criticism is that the system is expensive and that it does not work reliably. The introduction of Ertms will cost about 30 billion for the state. In addition, there are costs for rail operators. We should wait with this project until we see how, above all, Germany and Denmark will act. The government does not allocate any money to ensure the infrastructure needed to ensure that we have a working flight throughout Sweden. Nor is it shown how it intends to ensure that the northern industry has ice-free ports in the future. If we sum up the government's publishing house, it means putting two heavy-duty gong kings in the form of high-speed trains and Ertms in the budget, thereby failing to deal with the lack of maintenance in both the railways and our roads. It is also clear that the government has a serious imbalance between rail and road investments. Although 80 to 90 per cent of all transport within Sweden takes place on the road, the main focus is on rail. The argument for this is the desire to move from road to rail. The only problem is that the government does not seem to take into account how much goods are going on the road and the fact that we will never be able to build rail up to every corner of the house. If we are to live up to the environmental objectives we have adopted in Parliament, we must start investing in our roads. It is environmentally friendly road passenger and freight transport that is the key to a successful environmental policy. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats say no to the Swedish negotiations, but we support the financial framework for SEK 799 billion during the period 2022– 2033. This means that we have the same framework as the government parties, but we choose to use the money differently. We are also delaying Ertms in order to wait for Germany and Denmark to act, as it is above all these two countries that our freight trains will operate. Both of these decisions free up resources that we use above all to take measures to promote freight, local and road transport. We are also investing in local airports over the next four years, while at the same time seeking an investigation into how airports should be organised in the future. We also strengthen local flights by enabling local authorities to procure flights in the same way as they are allowed to procure all other public transport. We also want to see a development of Arlanda so that it becomes not only Sweden's most important airport but a node for the entire Nordic region. Mr President, I would like to We see how the business community is making major investments in Norrland. This means that we need to implement a freight investment that benefits both local and international business. We are therefore investing in expanding the railway along the Norrland coast and improving the railway in Västra Götaland down to the port of Gothenburg, while at the same time we want to get an investigation of the European track. If we carry out these efforts, we will reduce the time when freight trains have to stand still and wait for other trains, while at the same time strengthening the labour market regions in and around our metropolitan regions. In order to further safeguard the needs of industry, we have already decided that new icebreakers are needed and must be financed by the state. Therefore, we have chosen to include them already in connection with this proposal. We cannot postpone these investments. Maritime transport and the business community need a clear indication of when the new icebreakers can be in place. With our proposal, the icebreakers are funded. In addition to having a clear good strategy for rail and maritime transport, we need to upgrade our roads. From our perspective, there are three strategies that need to be implemented regarding Sweden's roads. One is linked to our good strategy. Therefore, we invest 24 billion more than the government to build more BK4 roads, which enables longer and heavier trucks. The second strategy is that we must stop reduced speeds throughout Sweden on the grounds of lack of maintenance. For us Christian Democrats, it is totally unacceptable for the Swedish road network to deteriorate. We therefore devote 56 billion more than the government to our roads. The third strategy is that we want a serious environmental policy in the automotive sector, which includes alternative fuels including hydrogen, biogas, biodiesel, hybrid vehicles and electricity, and a clear strategy for electrification of the Swedish road network via both electric roads and a well-developed network of charging stations for both cars and trucks. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the efforts we highlight in the national plan, we allocate EUR 55 billion to the regions of the country, which means that we spend EUR 6 billion more than the government on regional plans. We know that there is a great need for better infrastructure throughout the country. By strengthening regional plans, our regions are better placed to make investments where they believe the money is needed. Mr President, I would like to Before I go into landing, I would just like to say that in the field of transport policy, it is above all the Green Party and the Left that are the extreme parties. Their aversion to cars and aircraft harms Swedish business and all those who live in the country and depend on the car to handle everyday life. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by summarising the infrastructural policy of the Christian Democrats: We want to make it easier for the industry with a clear good strategy. We want to strengthen Swedish shipping via dredging strategic ports and by speeding up the acquisition of new icebreakers. We want to ensure that aviation has the opportunity to develop. We want to improve the environment through alternative fuels and electrification of the vehicle fleet and aviation. We want to develop public transport and cycling routes, especially in our urban areas. We want working mail and broadband throughout the country. We want to upgrade our roads so that the Swedish Transport Administration is not forced to lower speeds due to lack of maintenance. In short, we want a policy that strengthens Swedish business and enables citizens to live and work throughout the country. In the past this would have been a policy that the Social Democracy could have supported, but nowadays there is a greater interest in hanging out with MP on Rosenbad than in building the country. We find this regrettable. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-577	Mr President, I would like to I think it was an unfair description of the Left Party that we – what was it – hate motorists and roads or something like that, given that we are allocating SEK 9 billion more than the government does to the renovation of the road network in Sweden. We're spending 9 billion more. In addition, we are allocating EUR 60 billion more to the rehabilitation of our railways. So we really want better accessibility throughout the country, and we want a more sustainable transport system. What I said in my speech was that we reject a number of large-scale motorway projects both because they devour money from other important investments and because they will lead to large emissions. Many of these motorway projects are also located in our metropolitan areas, so they are not something that directly benefits the people of sparsely populated areas, which I know Magnus Jacobsson is happy to talk about. My question to Magnus Jacobsson is: How much more money than the government are the Christian Democrats investing in their total exercise on maintenance of railways and roads?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-580	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that for those who are currently looking at this, two parties are probably to some extent each other's extremes standing here. In the speeches that have been made here, the Left Party has highlighted the railways with great commitment. What was mentioned about roads in his speech was, above all, the desire to lift parts of the railway network out of the plan. We Christian Democrats are very clear in the motion we have tabled in the motion that we have to deal with the problems that exist with the roads. We have been clear in our motion that we say no to the Swedish negotiation and thus to the money that is set aside there. We have the same framework as the government, which means that we have a smaller framework than the Left Party. But we use this framework to invest in the railway north, and in our exercise we have highlighted the railway from Alingsås and down to Gothenburg, because it is about the freight route. We have pointed out the need to investigate the European track and speed up the Norrbotnia track. But above all, and we have invested a lot in this exercise, we must tackle the problems of the road system, and we must have an environmental profile. 80 - 90 per cent of all transport is on the road, and they will not disappear simply because, like the Left Party, the railways are highlighted in all possible and impossible contexts. We must dare to acknowledge the reality that prevails. The answer to the question is that we are spending about as much money as the government, but placing it in a completely different way and, above all, strengthening the road side. To be very clear: we are therefore spending less on rail and more on road.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-585	Mr President, I would like to Then I am afraid that the result will be less opportunities for people and goods to make their way in Sweden and less opportunities for us to reach our climate target in the transport sector with reduced emissions of 70 per cent by 2030. What I really wanted to say with my reply is that what Magnus Jacobsson attributed to the Left Party is not true, i.e. that we dislike roads so much. We want to care for what we want, but we do not want to build new and expensive highways. That is why I told Parliament's Chamber that the Left Party allocates EUR 9 billion to maintenance of the road network and in particular to maintenance of road networks in sparsely populated areas. This totals SEK 207 billion. I put a straight question to Magnus Jacobsson: How much more do the Christian Democrats allocate to maintenance of both rail and road?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-588	Mr President, I would like to As I already replied in my previous line, we are investing as much as the government, but we have redistributed the money so that we invest 56 billion more than the government is moving in total. This is in itself both maintenance and new production but with a focus on maintenance. It's different from the Left Party that takes off by 9 billion. As I said, we're betting 56 billion. I know that external actors who have looked at the various motions note that the Christian Democrats are by far the most committed party. We're actually proud of that! We have to deal with the road problems. We cannot have a situation where we continue to reduce speed because there is actually a lack of maintenance. If we are to achieve environmental objectives, it is on the road side that we have to go in. That's where the big flows take place. We have a fantastically good railway that needs to be upgraded. Strategic pieces need to be made, but it is still the case that the railways alone will not solve this. There is a fantastic work going on in Sweden in maritime transport, replacing bad fuels with better fuels. We see how aviation is improving. Let's see how the railroad's already good. From our side we would like to see hydrogen on Inland Line, for example. There is therefore a great deal going on in the technical field, but if we are to meet environmental objectives, we must tackle the problems that exist in the field of road passenger and freight transport. We've chosen to focus on that.
i-WZGAzygVgZ9Ev6nRXeQgxP	Mr President, I would like to I support all my reservations and call for approval of the committee's proposal for a framework for infrastructure actions from 2022 to 2033, as well as for reservation number 16 on research and innovation. Today we are debating the infrastructure of the future. What is special this year is that there is an infrastructure bill on the table which the Committee on Transport and Tourism has dealt with. How much should we invest in infrastructure over the next 12 years? These are very large amounts, 799 billion, which together with congestion and rail charges of a total of 77 billion will be the biggest infrastructure investment ever. Today, we are putting the financial framework and the focus on the measures for which the framework is to be used. It is only in the next step, in the action plan, that concrete objects are selected and decided. There are many needs in our elongated country, far more than this budget will be sufficient, despite an increase of over 20% against the current infrastructure plan. That is why the focus on how to prioritise is important. Liberals have negotiated the content of the bill, and we have achieved important liberal successes. Liberals' entrances have been electrification of transport, functioning daily commuting, building out railway and road capacity shortages, aviation and maritime infrastructure, caring for what we have, and not least the need for technology optimism to cope with the climate. They make everyone's everyday life work, make sure that our companies are well and that we can dramatically reduce our climate emissions. The most important success of the liberals in the infrastructure bill is that the climate goals are in focus. For the first time, electrification of the transport sector plays a prominent role in infrastructure planning. It is a prerequisite for us to achieve the climate goals. Electrification results in a rapid reduction in emissions already today. There, charging infrastructure plays a key role in the future. Priority should be given to daily commuting to jobs and studies. The transport system will strengthen training, jobs and the competitiveness of businesses. This is a prerequisite for Sweden's welfare. Liberals have pushed for the opening up of bottlenecks, for the removal of capacity shortages and for greater accessibility. We look forward to investments coming in the north and out to our ports, not least the double track between Gothenburg and Alingsås that is needed to overcome Sweden's worst capacity shortage. The transport system should also be connected. Liberals have been pushing for the transport system to function from door to door for both persons and goods. It is the total journey time that should be in focus, not the time it takes to travel a certain part distance. It is therefore important that the nodes between road, rail and public transport, shipping and air transport work. Examples are transshipment between train and truck to shipping in our ports. Another example is efficient public transport to our major airports. It is also important that the financing of icebreakers is dissolved, so that companies in the north can be sure that they can export their goods even in the winter. Liberals see that all modes of transport are needed. It is an efficient use of the advantages of each mode of transport that builds a coherent, strong infrastructure in Sweden. At the same time, infrastructure investments in Sweden must be linked to investments in our neighbouring countries. Cooperation between countries and modes of transport is a priority for the Liberals. Sweden should stick together. Sweden's road and rail network is in many parts 60-70 years old, and the maintenance needs are very high, not least in rural areas. It is also more socio-economically effective to maintain what we have. We therefore welcome a record investment in road and rail maintenance. For us to meet climate goals, technology optimism is needed. Sweden will be the leader in developing and applying new technologies and ideas in the field of transport. This is necessary in order to achieve climate objectives while improving accessibility and enhancing the competitiveness of businesses. It has therefore been very important for the Liberals that the proposal is a major focus on research, innovation and technology development. Finally, cost control in calculations and budgets must be increased, even in the early stages. It is unreasonable for large infrastructure projects to break the budget and thus crowd out many other projects. The bill contains clear indications about access to cost increases and that measures should be prioritised on the basis of societal benefits. The importance of goods for the prioritisation of measures must also be increased. Business needs are a priority. All in all, the priorities of the liberals have been given considerable scope in the guidelines for how to use the framework in the next step. We're proud of that. We call for the committee's proposal to be approved in this part. Mr President, I would like to The transport sector accounts for one third of Swedish emissions, and most of it comes from road traffic. Therefore, the Swedish vehicle fleet must become more sustainable, and emissions must be reduced. It was the Liberals who initiated the Electrification Commission, which will present in the autumn an action plan for infrastructure investments in charging infrastructure, to facilitate the transition to electric, heavy-duty vehicles. It is one of the most important areas for achieving our transport objectives in terms of climate. At the same time, a nationwide network of charging poles is needed at homes and parking lots so that individuals dare to invest in a rechargeable car. If we do not resolve this, we risk slowing down the whole transition in the transport sector. If we do not get more rechargeable cars, we will also not get biofuels that can be used for those areas that are more difficult to switch, such as aviation and shipping. Aviation and shipping have a plan to get away from their dependence on fossil fuel. For aviation, there is a promising development of electric flights, which before 2030 can have a greater impact on shorter distances up to 400 km. Liberals want a future airport strategy to take into account the possibilities of electric aviation to connect Sweden more effectively through direct flights between regional airports. This is Bromma Airport, an important hub. That is why we are strongly committed to Bromma airport remaining: in order to be able to drive the development of electric flights. Here, too, the need for charging infrastructure needs to be taken into account, just as in the case of road transport. Biofuels and electrofuels are important both for aviation and for the climate impact of shipping, especially for long-distance transport. Madam President, I would like Finally – if we are to meet our climate goals and make our transport more efficient, research, innovation and technological development are needed, not least in road transport. We need to develop self-driving, electric cars that are connected and serve a sharing economy in society. We need legislation that allows us to take advantage of the rapid technological development as long as it meets the security requirements and the requirements of privacy. Digitalisation offers great opportunities. It includes access to data as part of the infrastructure and provides a safe and efficient transport system. We also need to invest in research to drive innovation precisely as regards the conversion of aviation and maritime transport. Madam President, I would like Against this background, I support our reservation number 16 Research and innovation.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-615	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, in view of the new political situation, I will probably slightly overtake my registered speaking time. I apologise for this in advance. Madam President, I would like The environmental party's infrastructure priorities are clear. We want climate and environmental objectives to govern the infrastructure we build in Sweden. We are in an emergency for the climate. That is why the infrastructure we are building must support the achievement of climate objectives. That is precisely why the Green Party wants to invest heavily in the railways, which are our most energy efficient and climate-smart modes of transport on land. We want to both build new high-speed rail lines and expand and upgrade the railways throughout the country. Madam President, I would like When we entered into the negotiations on the January Agreement, it was important to us. This also led to a number of important points being made there. I am thinking, in particular, of paragraph 28 on expanding the infrastructure and tying Sweden together with trains that run on time, such as the completion of new high-speed rail lines so that Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and regions and cities along and in connection with the route of the track are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. There will be a continued expansion of the railway in northern Sweden and the planning for building the Norrbotnia Line as a whole will be intensified. When the parties in the January agreement last spring entered into negotiations on the infrastructure bill, our ambitions for the expansion of the railways were also the focus. It is no secret that the Green Party wants to invest heavily in building the Land of Train Sweden – a Sweden where the railway is the natural choice for transport, where you can rely on the train to walk and arrive in time and that it is possible to choose climate-smart trips throughout the country. The Green Party wants more people to want and be able to travel comfortably by train in a train country where we have new main tracks that enable a really fast and comfortable travel between cities in southern Sweden. There should be a quick connection between Stockholm and Oslo that makes it possible to travel in less than three hours. There will also be a connected and capacity-strong railway along the entire Norrland coast all the way up to Luleå. There should also be expanded capacity on the Ostkustbanan railway line as well as a straighter and faster railway link between Gothenburg and Oslo. In addition, regional and local routes should be equipped to connect to the major railways. So it is no secret that we would have been able to put forward an even more ambitious proposal than the one we have on the table. At the same time, Madam President, we note that an infrastructure bill of SEK 799 billion – an increase of SEK 176.5 billion compared to the period 2018 – 2029 – provides the conditions for carrying out much of what we want. With additional funds, such as runway charges and congestion charges, the framework is estimated to amount to a total of SEK 876 billion. The infrastructure proposal defines how the framework is spread in three areas: One area is maintaining rail, i.e. funding for the operation and maintenance of the railway, which is proposed to be SEK 165 billion. This is an increase of SEK 40 billion compared to the previous national plan and infrastructure bill. Then we have a perpetuating path. Funds for road maintenance are proposed to be SEK 197 billion, an increase of SEK 33 billion compared to the previous infrastructure proposal. This too is important from the perspective of the Green Party. We must maintain the roads that we have in the country, particularly with a focus on the peripheral road network, that is, roads in rural areas. Often they tend to be prioritised down. Finally, there is the third area of development. Funds for the development of transport infrastructure, i.e. new and old investments, are proposed to be SEK 437 billion. This is an increase of 103.5 billion compared to the previous infrastructure bill. The proposal for a financial framework for development allows the current national plan to be continued, but also for efforts to be made on both new high-speed rail lines and other important measures, such as further development of the railways in northern Sweden and intensified planning to build the Norrbotnia railway as a whole. Madam President, I would like To make this approach possible, the next step in the infrastructure planning process is needed. There is a need for a directive for the Finnish Transport Administration to produce a plan proposal so that a national plan can be decided by the Government. However, in view of today's decision, the future of this process is very unclear. Due to today's decision, the government's ability to act politically is paused until we have a government with support in the Swedish parliament. Even worse than this delay, there is a risk that we will now have a right-wing conservative government that has a completely different view of infrastructure issues from those of us who are behind the bill. The Moderates propose a reduction of the development framework by over 30 billion. They are opposed to the construction of new main rail lines for high-speed trains and thus risk the routes already decided, i.e. Ostlänken, Göteborg– Borås and Lund– Hässleholm. The Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are also opposed to the construction of new main roads. A right-wing conservative government is therefore threatening to put an end to the whole project. In the past, Christian Democrat Magnus Jacobsson also said that to make it clear, they want to invest less on rail and more on the road, that is, the opposite of what the Green Party wants. Let me therefore be clear. New high-speed trains are necessary if we are to meet our environmental and climate objectives. We're going to have net zero emissions in 2045. This also applies to the transport sector. It is not enough to electrify and use biofuels alone. Access to sustainable biofuels is very limited and needs to be focused on those parts of the transport sector that are most difficult to switch. We also need to make the transport sector more efficient in order to conserve renewable energy. The transfer of transport to rail will then be crucial, both for the carriage of passengers by air and by car and for the carriage of goods by lorries. Madam President, I would like The capacity of the railways, however, is hitting the ceiling. This is happening at a time when we know that we would have to move existing transport to rail and also take up the altitude in order for transport to increase with a growing population. Travel by rail had doubled since the 1990s before the pandemic, but the length of the route had not changed significantly. We need new main routes for people to have the opportunity to travel in a climate-smart and sustainable way in the future as well. One should be able to travel quickly both large regionally and nationally on the new main roads. At the same time, the existing tracks are relieved so that there is more space for local trains, with many stops, and the important freight traffic. While we are building a new railway that will serve us for over a hundred years, it is important that we build for modern trains that can drive really fast, at least 200 kilometers per hour. Today, the train does not look like it did a hundred years ago. Nor is it likely to look like today in a hundred years' time. We must increase the future and develop and innovate on the railways. The speed of the new main routes is crucial to make attractive travel times that are able to move people from flight to train and to make domestic flights to the south superfluous. If we can move 2 – 3 million passengers a year from the flight to the train, this will provide an important climate benefit. Madam President, I would like We wanted to see the new main roads financed outside the normal infrastructure framework. In this way, we in the Green Party wanted to create additional space to expand and maintain other railways. It's just as important for us to have a spine as a rib in the transport system. We note that there was no support for doing so with our colleagues in the January agreement. It is therefore important for us to find ways forward. The Green Party is a constructive force that wants policy implementation. The infrastructure bill that we have on the table means a forward investment that allows both to invest in continuing the expansion of the new high-speed trains as a whole and to expand and maintain railways throughout Sweden. This means a continuation of the investment on rail with which the government – the Green Party and the Social Democrats – started the last parliamentary term, in which we tried to gradually compensate for decades of down-prioritising of rail. This, in turn, means that in this bill we have significantly increased the maintenance of rail by an additional 40 billion compared to the previous infrastructure bill and the national plan, which was also extended in a similar way from the alliance government's previous infrastructure bill. Let me be honest, however. There is still a need to invest in rail maintenance in the future in order to regain the long-term, neglected maintenance. The Green Party would like to make it clear that we want to give priority to the railways too. This applies both to the development of new railways and to the maintenance of the routes that we already have. Madam President, I would like The Green Party also believes that there is a mode of transport that gets far too little space in the debate on infrastructure policy, namely bicycle. We want to see increased government responsibility for the expansion of bicycle infrastructure in Sweden. The Urban Environmental Agreements, to which the Green Party is the initiator, have been a very important tool for increasing the construction of bicycle infrastructure in larger and smaller cities. But we also need to build bicycle infrastructure in rural areas and make it possible to cycle even between cities and urban areas. That is why the Green Party wants to see increased government efforts, because it is precisely state and regional initiatives that can make it possible to build the main road network for bicycles that we want to see. It is such an issue that is not solved in an infrastructure bill but in the forthcoming national plan, where the details of the items to be financed but also any other investments and pots to be included are determined. But if there is an M-KD-SD government to develop the national plan, I am very afraid that urban agreements and other bicycle ventures will be deleted. That is not the priority of those parties. The infrastructure bill from the S-MP government also announced that a target for increased cycling would be developed. There are big gains with increased cycling. It improves public health and reduces climate impact. Smaller car traffic also improves air quality. This issue too has now been resolved. I very much hope that this objective can be achieved. Madam President, I would like The priorities of the Green Party here are very clear. We want climate and environmental objectives to govern. We want to bet on the railroad. We want to invest in an infrastructure that enables us to achieve our goals. I would like to conclude by calling for the reservations which we have, together with the other parties to the January agreements, to be accepted and for the proposal in the report to be approved. I wholeheartedly support the bill.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-640	Madam President, I would like I think I can agree with almost all of what Emma Berginger said. The problem is that these are pious hopes from the Green Party. That's not what this infrastructure bill looks like. I think we need to be honest when we are having a debate in this House. We have an infrastructure proposal based on continued forecast management, not target management. There will be no special government bike venture. There will be a continued maintenance debt in the railway sector. There is no specific reference to new rail to Oslo, nor is there any separate funding for high-speed rail, to take just a few examples. I very much agree with Emma Berginger that climate targets must guide infrastructure planning. But in what way does Emma Berginger think that our climate goals now govern infrastructure planning? After all, it is still a forecast of increased road traffic that underpins the scenarios contained in the infrastructure bill. Can Emma Berginger take a concrete example where the government is now prepared to lift large-scale road projects that both consume a lot of money and will lead to large emissions? Then Emma Berginger mentions the development of the transport system, with SEK 437 billion for new investments in road and rail. It is more money than before, but, as I have said before, it is completely inadequate. I would like to ask Emma Berginger: of this SEK 437 billion, what is the distribution between road and rail? How much goes to rail and how much to road of the 437 billion?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-643	Madam President, I would like Let me start by reminding you how to set up an infrastructure bill. It is a rather comprehensive document that gives Parliament the opportunity to decide on a direction for infrastructure planning but also the financial framework. The financial framework is divided into three headings. The first is the maintenance of rail, i.e. in principle the maintenance of rail. The second is maintenance of road, that is, maintenance of road in principle. The third is the item for development. The details are not really given. We do not know exactly which items will be financed by these funds, but it is a matter for the next step in the infrastructure planning process. That is why it is so important that you have a government that can give a directive to the Swedish Transport Administration to produce a plan proposal that is in line with what both I and Jens Holm want to see. It is also very important that you have a government that can negotiate and decide on a national plan where we get these important pieces. There is no room for that kind of detail in an infrastructure bill, but they come later. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that we highlight the important environmental and climate objectives in the infrastructure bill. We highlight the targets for reducing emissions by 70% by 2030 and for us to be close to net zero by 2045 and that this means that virtually all sectors, including the transport sector, must have reached zero emissions. I also think that a distinction should be made between the focus base from Trafikverket and the proposal that has now been put forward by the government. We absolutely do not agree with everything that has been included in the focus base from Trafikverket, but it is also just a basis. It is the bill that applies and that we decide on here. We want to invest in the railways ahead.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-647	Madam President, I would like Emma Berginger gives a description of the infrastructure bill as if it were just this kind of government bill. It's not like that. This is a political document. Propositions can look very different. Sometimes they can be very detailed, sometimes less. For example, Tomas Eneroth usually boasts about how he lifts the Norrbotnia Line after the bourgeois government has removed it. It's very good that it's lifted in. I can give Emma Berginger the right to say that this is a framework decision on money and political priorities. That is why it concerns me that our climate objective of reducing emissions by 70% has not had a clearer impact on this infrastructure bill. As a basis for the entire infrastructure bill, there is a forecast control. You can then go back to Trafikverket and see that they base all their plans on increased road traffic. Here the Green Party and the Social Democrats could have written in very clearly that it is our climate objective that sets the framework for the future action plan, which will come at the next stage. If this had been done, a clear signal would have been sent that, for example, old large-scale road projects must be lifted out of the action plan because they will devour money and lead to far too large emissions. Then the description of the three budget lines is a little interesting. In the previous infrastructure bill, the postal service was indeed involved in the development of the transport system, but at that time there was also a distribution between the interventions to road and rail. This government has cleverly removed it, so now we don't know how much of this SEK 437 billion – the biggest investment – goes to road and rail respectively. Why? Could it be that you disagree?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-650	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is possible to be more or less detailed in a bill. At the same time, however, as we have noted here, an infrastructure bill is kept at a relatively comprehensive level. It shall define the orientation and the financial framework. Last time this S-MP government presented an infrastructure bill, a single item was mentioned; it was Lund – Hässleholm that was lifted in. Just that, that you chose to point out an object, was pretty special. It is still normal to stay at the overall level. The starting point of the bill is very clear, namely the transport policy objectives, including the climate targets. If it had been a purely environmental partisan infrastructure bill, I can certainly imagine that we could have even clearer wording on climate and environmental objectives. But I do not think that there is any justification for saying that the climate and environmental objectives are not included in the bill, but they are included in a clear way. Then there is also evidence from Trafikverket in the form of, for example, their basic forecasts. We can discuss them for a long time, I think. Both I and Jens Holm have comments on them, not least on the fact that they often fail. You may not need to relate to them literally. This proposal is an opportunity for us to take responsibility for Sweden's future and for achieving climate and environmental objectives. But what has happened here today, Madam President, means that we have a political situation that puts us at risk of having an M-KD-SD government. That, Madam President, will not create any benefits for the railways. It will not create new high-speed trains. This will probably lead to our failure to achieve our climate and environmental objectives.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-654	Madam President, I would like In Emma Berginger's speech, she had a long list of desirable projects. There is talk of cards, that what is in the existing plan is to be implemented. The high-speed runways will also be built within planes. In addition, the list was very long for other projects that Emma Berginger thought were important and that should be included in the discussion on the new infrastructure plan. What can be seen is that already existing plans are underfunded. If the high-speed lines are to be built, the latest report is at a cost of 300 – 400 billion. It is a considerable part of the money intended to finance the plan. It doesn't take so advanced math skills to understand that that equation doesn't add up. My question is: Which of the projects in the existing plan does Emma Berginger want to give priority away? If the high-speed lines are to be built within the existing level, it is almost half the money. Then even projects that already exist in the existing plan must be removed, i.e. that the card card is not valid. There are a number of projects that need to be removed with the list that Emma Berginger presented and with the price tag that applies to the high-speed lanes. My question is: which projects are going away?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-658	Madam President, I would like I listed a number of objects that the Green Party would have wanted to push through if we had been able to present an infrastructure bill that made it possible for us to build the Swedish Train Country. This bill is a negotiated bill that is not purely environmental, but, as I said earlier, we would have been willing to spend more money. Of course, we will not be able to build all that we want in its entirety. We can also note that although the existing plan contains many new objects that were not fully funded, it is a good way to ensure that you take the height of the future to insert the objects so that the Swedish Transport Administration can start planning. Then there will be additional funding in the forthcoming national plans. That's how we're supposed to work now. That is also why it has been important in the January agreement to say that the existing national plan should be pursued. We from the Green Party could definitely imagine giving priority to one or another road object or another. But we have also agreed to the January agreement. How the January Agreement continues today, I leave it unsaid. But I can state that it was our entrance to the negotiation of this bill. I note that it does not take very advanced mathematics to realise that we will not put the whole object of new high-speed rails into this plan which extends until 2033 when it is a project to be completed by 2040. I would also like to correct the figures given for the cost of the whole high-speed rail project. The Finnish Transport Agency has carried out a thorough investigation and concluded that it is 295 billion plus or minus 50 billion that is the basis for the project. I think we are very well aware of the figures involved. It's for the whole project.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-665	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to know what the government means by the construction of high-speed roads. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action was very clear at the press conference that they will be built during their term of office. I assumed that's what this is all about. In that case, it means that 350 billion will be financed under the plan. That means that cards can't be laid. There are still a number of projects that need to be removed. Madam President, I would like Emma Berginger says that the high-speed train cannot be completed until 2040. Then I have another question that I find interesting. Building these high-speed lines will build up a large climate debt. There will be a lot of carbon dioxide emissions during the construction period. This means that the debt will be quite considerable in 2040. If we have the first electric planes in the air in 2026 and we see how the development of electrified vehicles on the road explodes, we can wonder about the transfer to trains. I can also see that there are advantages with trains because it can be more efficient on certain routes. For this reason, investment in trains is interesting. But if the heaviest argument is the climate, it will be very difficult to work off the climate debt when the shift to trains does not mean any climate benefits because the other modes of transport are fossil-free until 2040. There are two questions. The first is still: Low cards cannot be found if high-speed lines are to be financed within the framework. The second question is: How should you work off the climate debt if other modes of transport are fossil-free when the tracks are finished?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-669	Madam President, I would like Although environmental and climate reasons are above all the motives of the Green Party for the fact that we want to build new high-speed trains, we can see that there are also other important benefits with the new main roads. In particular, the chambers of commerce in southern Sweden point out how important it is from an economic perspective that we invest in expanding this infrastructure. It is something that should really attract the Moderates. I can also note that for electric aircraft in the relatively near future – we will see when they are on the market and not just as an innovation project – there are about 20 passengers per plane. Then we will convert today's flights, about 2 – 3 million people per year, to 20-person planes and fly between Stockholm and Gothenburg and between Stockholm and Malmö. There'll be a whole swarm of electric airplanes in the air. It's the same with the electric cars. They are not fully 100% sustainable. They require a lot of resources in the form of materials, rare earth metals and so on for their production. We need to make the transport sector more efficient. Then it is quite important to invest in the railways and create space for increased capacity. I do not think that anyone believes that new high-speed rail lines can be built within a term of office. But you can make the important and crucial decisions for the project as a whole to be implemented. What we now have decisions on are three stages. It is Ostlänken, Lund– Hässleholm and Gothenburg– Borås. But we lack the heart and the whole of the system. We need to get those decisions in place as soon as possible. This infrastructure bill opens up the possibility. We reflect what we agree on in the January agreement on the completion of the new high-speed main lines. But, of course, there would have been a need for further directives. Now we are in an uncertain political position. We do not know whether we will have the opportunity to present such a directive or whether it might be the right-wing conservatives who are stopping the whole project.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-677	Madam President, I would like When I sit and listen to this debate, I marvel. In 2010, the Swedish Democrats were voted into the Riksdag. Parliament is still there, and democracy is still there. Democracy will continue in 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026 even though I have government influence. Madam President, I would like We are here talking about high-speed trains, among other things. Is that the solution for the future? No, I'd say. Today, for example, we have started to build the East Link at a cost of around 54 billion. The costs have risen and are currently close to 85 billion. We are talking about an increase of over 30 billion. If you want to invest in the railways, you should do it for real so that we can transport goods and passenger traffic. We also know, for example, that the route between Gothenburg and Stockholm is very attractive. We have MTRX, we now have Flixtrain and we have SJ with both high-speed trains and regional trains that want to operate just because it is profitable. Does it not make sense, then, to spend money on developing these pathways? Does it not make sense, then, to maintain that railway? Does it not make sense to build meeting tracks, quad tracks and double tracks where it is needed to make use of capacity instead of building the world's newest, the world's most outmoded and the world's slowest high-speed railway? I give priority to today's railways with modernisation and steady maintenance.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-682	Madam President, I would like We celebrate 100 years of democracy and equal suffrage for men and women. Let us hope that democracy survives. On the other hand, we can see that in a democratic system there are different parties that have different values and different approaches to politics. And Jimmy Ståhl's Swedish Democrats have totally different values and entrances to politics than the Green Party has. The Green Party sees that the future lies in investing in what is sustainable and that can create climate benefits for a long time to come, and then we want to invest in new high-speed trains. It is true that the cheese link has become more expensive. It is often the case when you go closer to the realisation of a project that you get new knowledge of what the project entails, about geological conditions, about archaeological conditions and so on. It can also be noted that a learning process is required in these technical projects. The Finnish Transport Administration itself says that it has learned a lot on this journey and that today it has better track of the costs of the project as a whole. We can also note that, in order to move more people and more goods to the railways, we need increased capacity. If, for example, train companies such as MTRX and SJ are to be able to operate more and deploy more trains and if local traffic is to grow, we need more capacity, not least in order for freight traffic to continue. New main tracks are then a good way to create new opportunities for new connections between cities, such as greatly improved traffic between Gothenburg and Borås, between Gothenburg and Jönköping and between Gothenburg and Linköping. But it is also about traffic between these larger cities and southern Sweden and Skåne. Then we can get really fast and attractive trips both for the large regional work commuting and for national travel. There will also be a relief of the infrastructure.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-689	Madam President, I would like Here we can hear a brilliant example of the Green Party stepping on themselves. You're talking about fast trains. We will have the slowest high-speed railway in the world. That's what I'd like to say as a little nonsense. If you're going to have fast trains, that's what Emma said earlier: we're going to have 200 miles an hour. But it's not here, it's 250 kilometers. Emma Berginger also talks about Gothenburg – Borås, a stretch that I like because I am Gothenburg. And this will then go to Jönköping, Madam President. Jönköping is a hub for goods in Sweden. There's a huge amount of truck traffic. If a railway could also be built on which rail freight could be transported, many of the environmental problems that Emma Berginger claims to be able to solve would have been solved. But no, this is to be built solely for passenger transport. I call that a little hypocrisy. We must, of course, protect the goods, the goods that go out to the ports and out to the continent. Today, our freight companies have track times. That is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like Then there's this thing with the icebreakers. I don't understand. We have one of the biggest budgets ever, but then the governing parties do not want to invest financial resources. I understand, of course, that you have to talk to Finland and that you have to talk to the builders. But we must be able to set aside funds when the Swedish Maritime Administration has come to the conclusion that: Wow, now we are working together with Finland! Then the money must be there now. It is not possible to wait until 2033 and the national plan then to get the icebreakers. Then we paralyze the entire Swedish Maritime Federation.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-694	Madam President, I would like The climate benefits of the main routes are extremely important. It will far exceed the emissions that occur during construction within a few years – at least within a decade. But, Madam President, if we have a right-wing conservative government, we will not have any new high-speed trains, whether they go fast or slow. We can note that the Swedish Transport Administration has made a specialization decision for Gothenburg – Borås and for Ostlinken to invest in 250 kilometres per hour for these routes. Otherwise, however, there is nothing to say that we should not build for 320 kilometres an hour. We have continued to have a high level of ambition when it comes to getting the important transfer from flight to train, and that requires that we also get these really attractive travel times. It is also a great advantage if we can build in a more prefabricated way and, for example, apply metro technology. This creates the conditions for us to be able to build paths where trains can drive really fast and modern. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something about the icebreakers. I note that the Green Party is protecting shipping and that we think it is important that it should be able to develop. Maritime transport is an energy-efficient mode of transport that plays an important role in climate change. We want to secure the capacity of the ports in northern Sweden all year round, and we therefore also raise the issue of funding the icebreakers within the framework of an infrastructure bill. We did not get a say in this matter, and we therefore feel that if this is to be included in an infrastructure proposal framework, we must also take up the scope of this. Then it would have to be beyond what we put in. But does it raise the framework of the parties that have pushed through an announcement of ice breaking within the framework of the infrastructure bill? No, you haven't.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-700	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am in favour of the concept of right-wing conservative. I'm not a conservative, nationalist or anything like that. I usually define myself as a Christian Democrat. The government is investing 799 billion. 165 billion goes to the maintenance of state railways and 197 billion to the maintenance of state roads. 437 billion is intended for development. It is quite correct that this is not divided, so we do not really know how they are distributed. When you listen to the speech that Emma Berginger makes, you hear that there is a lot that the money should be enough for. It is particularly in the rail sector, and I have the greatest respect for the commitment to rail. But there is only one small problem. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce has been in a position to compare the Government's budget with the Swedish Transport Administration's request in the right cost situation – because it has actually been playing with figures – and it can be said that the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for zero per cent reinforcement compared to what it has had in the past with cost development would mean that railway maintenance needs 173 billion. The government proposes 165. The zero-percent option on the move requires 208 billion. The government proposes 197. We have a government that will make investments. I lift my hat for it, and you choose to do it primarily by rail. But the maintenance debt on the current roads and railways will thus become worse with the current government. Then you will soon have to start answering the question: What do you want to remove?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-705	Madam President, I would like It is true that the infrastructure bill is not entirely an environmental partisan infrastructure bill. The Green Party had higher ambitions both in terms of funds for development and in terms of funds for maintaining the railways. Nevertheless, this is an expansive infrastructure bill, in which, for example, we add an additional EUR 40 billion to the previous infrastructure bill and the national plan for the maintenance of the railways. Of course, it would have been possible to make this pot even bigger, not least so that we could begin to recover the backward maintenance that exists and that has been built up for several decades. When we, together with the Social Democrats, took power in 2014, we began to repay this. We began to invest more in the railways so that the debt would not increase as sharply as it has done over the decades. As I said, we can also note that we are spending SEK 437 billion on development and that it is an increase of SEK 103.5 billion compared to the previous infrastructure bill and the national plan. This means that we will have additional funds to invest both in new high-speed rail mainlines and to expand rail in the country and to complete the previous national plan. These are important things to bet on. A focus basis is, after all, a basis, but it is a political decision that is needed to take this forward. We note that we are extending the whole framework by over 20%. These are extremely important efforts that can be made to create the conditions for a sustainable and climate-smart transport system in the future.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-711	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by commenting on something that surprises me. I've been a simple little councillor in a small municipality. If four parties have negotiated, at least as I have been taught, Madam President, it is usually used to defending the settlement that has been made. When I listen to the speech, it is mostly about what the Green Party wants to do, but until this morning the Green Party was actually in a government. They remain in the government, and it is the government's policy that I am in some sense trying to oppose. It will be very difficult, Madam President, on the one hand to oppose government policy and, on the other hand, to oppose the Environment Party's wishful policy. It will be difficult to relate to this, Madam President. If we stick to the facts, it remains that what is on the table is underfunded. Yes, you increase by 20 percent, but you also put in a high - speed cuckoo, costing 165 billion. When you put that gökungen in, you remove resources, and when you compare maintenance resources, you see that less is spent on maintenance on the road and on maintenance on the rail, which results in us getting worse roads and railways. I want to get back to what I said in my speech. I am well aware that the Green Party hugs rail at all times, but the railways will not go up to every red house with white knots. The railway does not always solve it for Dalsland or inner Norrland. We must invest in roads, and that is why I am proud that we Christian Democrats are spending 56 billion more than the government on roads. We are doing this by saying no to high-speed trains.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-715	Madam President, I would like We have a new political situation in Sweden since this morning, a political situation where we can have a completely new and different government than we have today. We can move towards an extra election-- we don't know at the moment. I am clear about what the Green Party's entrances and values are at all times. I have also been a municipal councillor in a smaller municipality – Lund. I have previously engaged in debates against representatives of the Alliance Government but also in my municipal work, and I know that one can stand up for and defend that one has entered into an agreement but also be clear about what is one's own starting values so that one is transparent to the voters. I note that the infrastructure proposal we are now presenting is not under-financed. We have the same framework, for chrissakes. It is about us making different political priorities. We think it is important that, in addition to investing in maintenance, we also invest in an opportunity to expand and upgrade the railways throughout Sweden. Then we need funds in the development pool. It is this pot that parties on the right side propose to be cut down. It would be very unfortunate, Madam President, if we were to have such a situation. As I said, we need both to develop and upgrade the railways throughout Sweden. High-speed tracks are not a cuckoo, but a necessity for us to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. Of course, we would have liked to see a larger framework. We would have liked to have financed the high-speed rail lines outside the ordinary infrastructure bill. But it was not possible to get a common understanding on this issue, and then we choose to be constructive and find a way forward that will enable us to take the important and necessary decisions that are needed to get ahead with the high-speed rail project so that it will not take us until the next century before we can go really fast and climate-smart between our cities.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-719	Madam President, I would like The bell rings 05.40, and half an hour later he sits on a bicycle and then hops on the train to the larger city and work at the county hospital as a nurse. At 6:15 a.m. the bell rings, and an hour later she sits in the car on her way to work at the local grocery store. At 6:30 a.m., the bell rings, and an hour later she sits in front of her computer in her home office. She works as an IT consultant. What do these three people have in common? Well, everyone's in need of a functioning infrastructure. According to the Center Party, we have five modes of transport: road, rail, shipping, air and – of course – IT. All of these are connected and needed for Sweden to function and for people and goods to come closer together. During the pandemic, infrastructure and traffic have been given recognition of colour, and the mode of transport that has become more important than others is IT and broadband. A functioning n the broadband across the country is crucial for us to be able to work, study and be connected. This is a priority for us in the Center Party. Madam President, I would like In a country like Sweden, we must not put the transport law against each other, but we must see it as a system where everything is connected: shipping that is important for trade and export, aviation and the train that connects the country when people travel and move and the road that is often where they start their journey. When we discuss infrastructure, we need to think the whole journey perspective, whether it is goods or people, and that it is from door to door that you move. If we have that thought, we also get the right investment in the infrastructure we want throughout the country, whether it is in the countryside or in the city. We must also not put Sweden's geographical parts against each other. Madam President, I would like The infrastructure bill, which we are now debating, gives hope for the future and is the tool for defining the direction of the infrastructure for the years 2022–2033. In the bill all five modes of transport are mentioned and put in a context – they are connected and needed. The efforts described on roads and railways in particular are crucial for the continued good construction of society where we build the country stronger and bring people closer together. That roads, railways, shipping, aviation and IT are mentioned in the bill, I am proud and happy about. The Center Party has taken responsibility for that, and so it was. The Center Party has also been involved in taking responsibility for the whole of the bill that was submitted to the Riksdag and for the good initiatives that will take Sweden forward and through the Corona crisis and give people hope for the future. The next step will be the priority to be given to the items to be included in the national infrastructure plan. This priority will be important and will give hope for the future throughout the country. Future hope, Madam President, is precisely the word that people need to have in the time we are in right now. No matter who you are, how old you are, what background you have or where you live, the infrastructure engages people. It affects people's everyday lives more than we might think. If, then, we can clearly point out the direction from the parliament and government, people will have confidence in the future. It is the faith of the future that this proposal gives us. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is involved in taking responsibility for infrastructure, today, tomorrow and in the future. It is with future hope, positivity, innovation, green transition and the whole country perspective that we take the country forward. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that Mr Åkesson called for our reservations to be accepted, and I would like to say that we support the proposal in the report as a whole, as well as the proposal submitted. I would also like to wish you a happy summer.
i-RZgD8xt3MEQn9H1ZU9HV53	Madam President, I would like We will debate the bill 2020/ 21:183 Feeding of game and sports related to it as well as exercise from general exercise time last autumn. As far as reports on hunting and game management, feeding and so on are concerned, Madam President, we feel like we have done this before. In the bill 2015/ 16:199 Wild boar and game injuries, the report of the Hunting Act investigation was discussed SOU 2014:54 on feeding, surveillance of wild game cameras and more effective appeal procedures in hunting predators. When this report was discussed here in autumn 2016, I stood here as now. And we all know that the bourgeois parties and SD stood behind the right of the large landowners to continue uncontrollably to fatten up large boar tribes to the gardens of summer sturgeon owners and homeowners and to harm traffic damage and farmers. Instead, one should have seen to it that the users' right and that they would not have to have their crops, their forests and their gardens destroyed. We wanted to agree, and if more people had been willing to do so, the matter would probably have been resolved. But perhaps we listened too much to the LRF's strong demands to put this into effect as soon as possible. Perhaps we took too little account of the majority of Parliament than was actually possible. The government is now presenting a revised version that gives county boards and wildlife management delegations the right to restrict feeding in an area where feeding opportunities are abused. We do so directly in response to the announcement that has come. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 October 2021, provided that the Government has time to decide on the necessary changes to regulations in view of the changed situation that we received in this House this morning. That should also be borne in mind. We think the new bill is good. But the Moderates are swinging again and calling for inexplicably rejection of the entire bill. Could it be that the Moderates once again stand on the side of the big landlords when it comes to the right to feed large quantities of wild boars so that they can then sell exclusive and expensive hunts? Madam President, I would like In the world of Moderates, it seems that damage is less important than the rights of the great landowners. We can see that the feeding part is a stone placed on another stone in order to achieve sustainable wild boar management. Camera monitoring, baiting, night vision and the support from 1 July for cesium and trichinae sampling are all elements that have been added under Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. Madam President, I would like We're making a joint announcement. We think it is reasonable for these changes to be evaluated. These experiences and any restrictions and how county administrative boards and wildlife management delegations deal with consequences and changes due to the bill and the decision to be taken by the House. We think that's a good thing. As far as the so-called general assignment is concerned, there are sports. It has been a long political and sometimes painful process, not least for me. We Social Democrats continue to stand up for and want to protect and develop the non-profit forces that exist within Swedish wildlife conservation. We want to create long-term sustainability, and we want to ensure the special position of the Swedish Hunter Association. We want to circumvent the demands that come through EU membership. We want to ensure that the procurement rules that we have decided on here in the Swedish Parliament will also apply in full. We must look to the whole and look to the future. There has to some extent been an untruth that we have abolished the general mission. That is not true, Madam President. But we must ensure that we can develop forms in the future. We want to ensure that the Svenska Jägerförbundet gets the long-term rules of play required. We want to ensure that there is also long-term funding for the Swedish Hunter Association. We're enabling that now. There is also an announcement from the majority in committee on this. That is really what we have already decided on. Money from the Wildlife Fund used must also be able to cope with procurement law and judicial review. It will require a long-term perspective, and the Swedish Hunter Association will have better and more far-reaching conditions. The Government will award a multi-annual organisational grant directly to the Swedish Hunter Association, which the organisation has long asked for. It provides security and predictability for the organisation's operations and long-term goals. The main elements of the general mission concern the provision of knowledge on practical hunting and game management. This mandate will be maintained and developed through the multi-annual organisational grant. Madam President, I would like The majority say that decisions on funding of the hunting and game conservation mission should be taken for three years at a time in order for the Swedish Hunter Association to have better conditions. This, Madam President, means that the announcement of a three-year contribution will already be met, and for any government it will be quite easy to rewrite. Madam President, I would like Money from the Wildlife Fund should be used to promote game conservation in accordance with the Hunting Act. Applications shall be examined on the basis of criteria set out in the new Regulation. We understand that this is important. We believe that it should be designed in a way that creates security and that the funds are distributed in accordance with the intentions of the Hunting Act. The decision on the organisation grant was also recently made by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and only two organisations met the new, strongly strengthened requirements that we have implemented. The Hunters' Federation receives SEK 8.4 million, and the Special Club for Continental Bird Dogs receives an organisation grant of SEK 300 000. Ten of the applications have been rejected, as the requirements of the organisations have not been deemed to have been met. Four of the applications were rejected because the activities of the organisations were not considered to be aimed at promoting game conservation or other similar purposes compatible with the Hunting Act. Three of the applications have been rejected as the organisations have not been deemed to be national. One of the applications has been rejected because the organisation has not been in existence for three years at the time of the application. Two of the applications have been rejected because the organisations were not found to be democratic and open to all people. Of the applications submitted, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that only two had sufficient breadth, clarity and feasibility and thus met the conditions for the grant and also followed the objectives and intentions of the Hunting Act. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency correctly made the assessment that the other applications were not sufficiently consistent with how activities should be carried out – that one should be nationwide and have the necessary organisation. Madam President, I would like The majority of committees say that there should be a review of the organisations to be financed by the Wildlife Fund. Should you have any other organisations that are not compatible with the hunting law, or have you thought in any other way? Well, that might be pretty interesting to know. The criteria have now been substantially tightened so that organisational means are used to promote the hunting law's aims – and then the majority of the committee is going to review it? It's weird. Madam President, I would like The conflict level in Sápmi is escalating. Girja Sami Village's lawsuit by the state regarding the right to hunting and fishing in the Sami village area and subsequent court proceedings and judgments in HD have had several double-bottomed effects. Friends and relatives who have previously been able to meet, talk, and drink coffee together are now in the hood of each other in a way that no one serves. I do not think that this debate should be escalated in this House. This was due to the Supreme Court's condemnation of the Sami exclusive right, which has created an uneasy atmosphere. The judgment also sets a precedent for other similar questions. Madam President, I would like The reindeer husbandry law is old. It is out-of-date, unequal and patriarchal. Surely it is time for us to have a parliamentary inquiry which will have to look at the conditions in depth. The right and possibility to hunt moose west of the cultivation line in Västerbotten is also a long history that has been subject to judicial review. It has also been the subject of no less than five announcements from this House to various governments. This is something that various governments have so far been unable to deal with. Now we have the opportunity to investigate this issue as well and give the local buoyants the same and equal conditions as the Sami villages so that they can pursue the moose hunt calmly, objectively and safely – without the risk of simultaneous hunting in the same areas. Madam President, I would like In many places west of the cultivation line, this works just fine today. There is a very good handshake between Sami villages and locals, and you have no worries about hunting together and setting up guidelines for hunting. In other parts, this has been a major problem. Therefore, I think that the announcement proposed is quite unnecessary and would risk tearing up dust and dust rather than clarifying the real purpose, namely to create peace and order in hunting and fishing in the areas of the Sami villages. Finally, a new hunting time regulation is in place. Many were rather surprised by the overwhelmingly positive comments. The hunters' union says there are 45 decisions in the right direction. As expected, there was criticism of a number of decisions. Several landowner interests have called for various forms of increased general hunting for cloven-hoofed game. Many people believe that it would be better if we nationalised the management of the cloven-hoofed game at some new authority or with a new Director-General. It will not work with centralisation, Madam President. Klövviltet is best managed on site in the forest with a handshake between hunter and landowner. There we see and protect the basics of the elk management system we have with elk management areas, moose management groups and licensing areas where game management delegations are important regional balance factors. The 1st of September will now also be the new national day for all moose hunters, for now the moose hunt in northern Sweden will start on 1 September instead of the first Monday in September. The spring goat hunt is criticized and has been questioned. We believe that these hunters are as responsible as is required, and should that not be the case, the Social Democrats have in other cases shown that a responsive government can change what is going to be wrong. In northern Sweden, we have changed two of the decisions with good spirit and good arguments: For the eider, this means that the hunt is paused while waiting for a management plan, and when it comes to the culturally important rip hunt we now get a new, balanced solution where we ensure the 15th of March as the end date. Madam President, I would like I apologise for exceeding my registered speaking time, but these are important issues. I wish you a nice midsummer and summer! I request the approval of reservation 17.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-760	Madam President, I would like MJU22 is what applies today, and the representative of the Social Democrats began his speech by saying that it feels like we have done this before. Yes, to some extent we have done this before: as early as 2016, a proposal was tabled at Parliament's table which was far too bad to be voted through in plenary. This year a new proposal has been put forward on the feeding of game – and that is at least as bad. I am therefore extremely surprised that a majority still chooses to let the proposal through. On the question of the Moderates, I would like to ask a counter-question: What do the Social Democrats and others think this is actually going to make a difference? What difference will this proposal make? What evidence is there that this will make a difference? What kind of investigations are there, and what kind of research is there? There's nothing. All this will lead to is increased discord between hunters and landowners. That is a bad proposal, Madam President. That is why I find it very sad to vote it through. To come and say that the Moderates are going to the big landlords' business in this is very strange when it is I who go up in the speaker's chair. I am both hunters, landowners and farmers in wild-profit areas. I feel that I actually have pretty good control of this wild boar and wild boar problem. The night before yesterday I was out checking my wheat fields and noted that summer night hunting needs to start, because now they are out in the wheat fields. So now it's time to start shooting again. That's how we deal with large cloven-hoofed tribes; we have to shoot them. It should be said that this applies to areas in which no feeding is actually taking place. For the past eight to ten years, the boar tribe has rushed something quite tremendous in number – right up to about two years ago, when landowners and hunters throughout our moose husbandry area agreed that we needed to reduce the wild boar tribe. Then we went out together to deal with the problem, and now we have fewer boars in the area. It is therefore possible to deal with this, but not through toothless proposals put on Parliament's table which will lead to nothing other than appeals from landowners. I also believe that they will win the appeals, Madam President. It is not a legal proposal that is on the table, and it is not a proposal that will pass a proportionality review – certainly not. That is why the Moderates say no to the proposal, not because we do not know that there is a problem with the game tribes. It does. In some areas there are incredibly big problems with large game strains and damage to agriculture and forestry, but there are a number of other proposals that we could talk about instead. However, these proposals reflect their absence in the bill. I agree that a number of good proposals have recently been made, such as night vision and moving lighting. But another issue on which there is still no proposal is small-scale sales. You wonder how many years it'll take before it's actually finished. This is a proposal we could have had on the table in Sweden five years ago. But you don't want that, but you pull it on the government's side. That is very regrettable. It is also the case that the type of overfeed, or okynese feeding, that exists in some areas in Sweden had been able to deal with existing legislation both on the environmental side, with the hygiene regulation, and in relation to feed legislation. But then we must give our authorities the task of actually working on existing legislation. They themselves say that they do not have such a mission, and then it is clear that the problem is not solved. That is why we reject this proposal. I think it is a good thing that it will be followed up, because I am very uncertain about its effects. The Social Democrats stand up here and speak warmly for the general mission and say that you are a friend of the hunters, but the last year has shown that it is exactly the opposite. The Social Democrats are only making it difficult for the Swedish hunting corps. It removes the general mandate, which has worked for over 80 years in a most satisfactory way, and refers to the EU. All of us sitting in here to debate today's subject know that this is not true – Europe had nothing to do with this. There was a matter, but it was closed before the government put this proposal on the table. So that's not true. The rip hunt is another thing that the Social Democrats now want to say that they did well when they crawled to the cross. But this was another proposal that wanted to make it more difficult for hunters through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency – the same conservation work that is now being given more power and commission by changing the general mission. We know that the Swedish Hunting Corps thinks that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is a rather peculiar authority that does not do what they should. The Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government now want to give even more power. We have old announcements about a game agency, which we think would have better dealt with this kind of issue. But we were made quite clear by the Minister for Rural Development, when the proposal to change the general mandate was launched, that this issue is no longer relevant from now on; it is being dealt with by bringing these matters into the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. That's how you handled that announcement. Very strange. No, the Social Democrats, it shines through when you stand in the pulpit and want to speak warmly for the hunters and the Swedish hunting corps. Unfortunately, it is very unfortunate that this has not been the case recently. When it comes to hunting and reindeer farming and the investigation to be set up, a parliamentary inquiry is great. It is of course very good after the Girjasdom. However, I think that a political position would have been better than an HD ruling in this case, because there are so many different interests that need to be balanced in this. The Court itself says that it has not looked at the other interests, because that was not the Court's mission. Then it is good to have an investigation, which is now being set up. However, the directive of that investigation was far too narrow. That is why four parties agreed in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture that this mission needs to be broadened. There is a need to look more closely at other citizens around these areas and at the right of other Swedish citizens to hunt and fish in these areas. I think it's great to review the double registration of moose – no talk about it. It was also a good thing that we had a broader directive for this investigation. Now we hope that the government will take on board this announcement. Madam President, I would like I cannot have a hunting debate in this House without talking about the wolf. So a few words about the wolf come at the end. We see that the troubles with wolf continue to grow out in the country. Some counties in Central Sweden are beginning to have extremely large wolf tribes. You don't feel like you're being seen. That is an enormous problem. From the Moderates' side, we stick to our line. We believe that 170 wolves in Sweden and perhaps 30, 40 or 50 in Norway under a single Scandinavian administration is the way forward. We believe that this is a way forward that even people who live with the wolf in their everyday lives could accept. We maintain what we said earlier about the wolf and 170 wolves in Sweden. I ask you to accept reservation 1. With this, Madam President, I would like to round off within my eight minutes and wish you a nice summer.
i-GEpPcm47gcEe9MmKL52ZjS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for your speech. It can be said that the small-scale sale of wild boar can start on 1 July – then the support for cesium and trichinae sampling can start to be paid out. In addition, the Swedish Food Safety Agency is working to produce the necessary changes to regulations to sell wild boar meat. This is most welcome. It has been working on for a long time, but it has also been delayed in this House. When John Widegren called for a rejection of the bill, he also actually called for a rejection of the whole. Since the drafting of the previous bill came from the hunting team investigation that the alliance government itself set up, the question is: Was it wrong? Is the pressure exerted by the LRF to get a sharper weapon in the restriction of feeding also wrong? You can think about that. Is it wrong to give county and game management delegations the right to restrict this area in cases where the right to feed has been overused? This regionalisation, too, actually came under the alliance government. Is that wrong too? Is this something that the Moderates now, in another political context, intend to change?
i-2YUvLTQJYJqjkom4HWRkyJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for the questions. I do not see trichinae and cesium samples at all as part of a small-scale sale, but it is just something that could lead to increased displacement next to small-scale sales. This is something that the hunters were doing even before, so I do not see it at all as part of small-scale sales. That's where the government pulled its legs. It's taken too long. There was no reason for that, because there were good proposals. There are also countries in Europe that have good proposals that we could have taken a long time ago. Is it wrong to go, for example, LRF's cases on this issue? No. I understand that we have a big problem – I see it. But it would have been extremely interesting to hear how the Social Democrats believe that this proposal actually solves the problem. There are authorities and organisations who say that we could have dealt with what we are doing now by giving the authorities an extended mandate within existing legislation in regulatory letters. Perhaps we could have finished investigating it before we jumped straight into something new that there is no evidence for. There's no research. There's no attempt. There's nothing. This is a proposal that the Social Democrats' own Secretary of State says about: we just needed to get something on the table so that we could get it out of the way. It feels really safe! No, there'll be homework on this. I do not really understand the question of regionalisation, so the Social Democrats will be happy to come back with it.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-796	Madam President, I would like Is it wrong that we should make the decisions as close to the ground as possible? Is it wrong that it is basically the landowners and hunters who settle and that we have game management delegations and county boards that make the balances? Is it wrong for us to enable the wildlife management delegations to ban feeding on a land if it is abused? This is exactly what this House has been asking for. Last time we tabled a feeding bill, the House said it was too far-reaching. It went to LRF's affairs; it was actually written on the basis of their demands. Is it wrong that we are now responding to what the House requested? After all, there is a majority of other parties that have approved this, so it will go through. But what seemed strange was that the Moderates were just calling for rejection of the bill. I think that something we all need to have with us is that a centralisation, a new Director General, will not solve the grazing damage on pine trees in Västerbotten and searched fields and gardens in Småland or Skåne, but it must be managed as close to the ground as possible. That is why I am very concerned that the Moderates are so keen on centralising game management policy.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-800	Madam President, I would like Now I understood better what was meant. I guess it's just the opposite, I guess. Centralisation is what has happened with the general mission now, where the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is even more involved in dealing with these issues than before. In what way would the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency handle this better than an authority specialised in wildlife feeding, a game agency? When we regionalised the game management delegations, that was a great idea, but they have no mandate to decide or do anything, for goodness' sake. And when the government thought that the distribution of delegations was strange, because there were so many politicians who were hunting interested in them, then they put in a few more interests on the conservation side so that it was weighed up. It is no wonder that people who are interested in hunting also want to sit in a game management delegation. And what does that mean? Well, in that case it means centralisation when we take power from the game management delegations where we should instead give them greater powers and opportunities to deal with local and regional issues. But the question still remains: what will the new proposal solve? It won't solve anything. It is just an empty proposal that will solve nothing. Had we given our authorities a mandate to actually comply with existing legislation, they could have done at least as much good as the new proposal might have. But, well, the Moderates have said their opinion, and it wasn't just a rejection. We just proposed improved regulatory letters so that the authorities can work according to existing legislation and increased incentives to increase the shift of cloven-hoofed game. Those were our suggestions.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-805	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservation 5 under paragraph 5 on the restriction of regulations to apply only to cloven-hoofed game. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I am only calling for this particular one to be approved. The Swedish Democrats note that in its bill Feeding of Wildlife, the Government seeks to meet the Riksdag in response to the announcement that the Riksdag decided on in 2016. The Swedish Democrats can support much of what is proposed in the bill. At the same time, there are concrete proposals in the bill that need to be adjusted and some improvements and additions that need to be made. Overall, there are differences of opinion as to whether restrictions on feeding would lead to much fewer wildlife accidents and less damage to fields and forests. Any form of regulation constitutes a restriction on the freedom of ownership and should therefore be used only as a last resort. However, as wildlife accidents as well as agricultural and forest damage increase, it is clear that some types of measures related to the feeding of wild game are needed. We believe that the issue of the feeding of game should primarily be regulated voluntarily between landowners, possible tenants and hunters. The County Administrative Boards should be entrusted with the task of contributing to the success of these parties in reaching agreement on the issue of feeding. Only in cases where agreement cannot be reached and only where damage deemed to be linked to the feeding of game has been objectively demonstrated, the county administrative boards shall be able to regulate feeding. Voluntary agreements and consultations are important for dealing with potential conflicts of interest as a result of feeding places being able to attract wild game from a larger area, thus affecting the huntable game of other landowners. For the sake of legal certainty and predictability, it is also important to have already established in advance the conditions to be met for the existence of serious and proven injury. In order to reduce possible conflicts of interest or social damage, wild game feeding sites should be located only at a minimum distance from public asphalt roads or neighbouring land where cultivated crops are growing, unless otherwise agreed between landowners and possible tenants and hunters. The desire to limit the feeding of wild game geographically and temporally is primarily caused by the damage caused by the grazing and culling of cloven-hoofed animals, not least wild boars. We see no reason to extend the regulation to other species other than those set up in case of contamination or in case of acute food shortages in nature during cold winters or equivalent. Including other species would imply a restriction disproportionate to the damage reduction envisaged by the rules and would pose a risk of unnecessary red tape. Limiting regulation to cloven-hoofed game is also in line with the announcement made by the Riksdag in 2016 and on which the Government's proposal is largely based. Some landowners, tenants and hunters feed wild game with sugar beet or root vegetables to such an extent that it has a strong impact on animal behaviour and nutritional intake as well as adjacent land and road safety. We therefore believe that there are grounds for municipalities or state authorities to be able to limit the volume of such feeding in order to tackle the worst side effects of that particular feeding. Such prohibitions or restrictions shall take place only if landowners, tenants and hunters have not been able to agree, despite the active participation of county administrative boards and provided that objectively harmful effects can be demonstrated in the individual case. Madam President, I would like Jägerförbunden has an invaluable competence, high credibility and strong ties with the hunting and game management team, which means that the importance of the hunting and game management mission in Sweden cannot be overestimated. We therefore find it unfortunate that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can withdraw some of the funds from the fund in order to be able to distribute to other organisations. The Swedish Democrats believe that the hunters' hunting card fee should continue to go into the Wildlife Care Fund in an uninterrupted manner and then be distributed to different types of activities. In order to create a better long-term perspective for game administrations, we want decided funds from the Wildlife Fund to be valid for three years. With the Government's decision on the hunting and game conservation mission, the risk of anti-hunting organisations receiving contributions from the Wildlife Fund, which is financed by the hunters' hunting card, increases. If this result it is devastating for hunting and game conservation in Sweden. The Government's new decision ensures that the Swedish Hunters' Association is guaranteed money from the Wildlife Fund through an organisation grant, as I said, but it is a reduction of approximately SEK 8 million per year for the work on the hunting and game conservation mission. Now, instead, parts of the mission are to be procured, as the Green Party has proposed for several years, in terms of traffic search, game surveillance and biungulate game management. The Leagues of Hunters should be well placed to get these missions and will, of course, be involved in trying to win procurements. It has a crucial role to play in how best to manage game management regionally and locally throughout the country. But the Swedish Democrats do not approve of the new decision, as I said, but believe that the hunters' hunting card fee should continue to go into the Viltvårdsfonden and then be distributed to various types of activities. We have in recent memory that dubious organisations are granted the right to appeal against government decisions, despite shortcomings such as missing business reports and membership lists and missing accounts. In practice, it has been enough to claim to have over 100 members or to be a Facebook group. Should the new decision open up to organisations with hunting resistance to their agenda being able to apply for and receive organisational and operational grants, it would, as has been said, be devastating for credible hunting and game conservation in Sweden. Madam President, I would like There are strong reasons for transferring the responsibility for hunting and game management from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to a pure hunting and game authority. A new wildlife agency would provide a rural anchorage with the potential to create a basis for a better dialogue with regional authorities, hunter organisations, land and animal owners and rural residents in general. The fact that the crack is widening between the city and the countryside means that the Swedish democrats want to work for a government exercise that holds Sweden together better. We see a new hunting authority as part of this strategy. In 2015, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the government that a game agency should be set up, but we have not seen much of it yet. It's probably in the investigation pile as usual. Madam President, I would like The consequences of the Girjas judgment should be investigated with a broad perspective, which apart from the legitimate interests of Sami villages and the relationship between Sami village and state also addresses the needs and rights of other minority groups in the area, including other communities living in Norrland for a very long time with Finnish as well as Swedish dialects, Sami who are not members of any Sami village, today's local population and also everyone living in Sweden. An investigation must therefore be carried out as a matter of urgency. In order to ensure that the investigation receives a broad grant and creates a solution that can work over time and that everyone is satisfied with, the participation of all those involved in hunting and fishing in the mountain world should be ensured, as well as the participation of the parliamentary parties. The Court's ruling in the Girjas case has created a great deal of uncertainty among residents and others who have hunted and fished for generations in the area to which the Sami people now have exclusive rights. The Swedish Democrats want to see an inclusive dialogue that takes into account both Sami rights and local and other residents in Sweden's right to small game hunting and fishing. The possibility for other hunters in Sweden who wish to go to the mountains to hunt ripa, among other things, should also be part of the investigation's work. Now we also heard that the rip hunt has been restored. The first message the government came with, where they went against the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has now taken back, and it is now possible to hunt ripa until 15 March. That's good. The local population and other residents in Sweden who have also hunted and fished on these land for generations are not even mentioned in the directives, nor are the organisations that gather hunters. It is good that the directives have now been supplemented by proposals that take into account the rights of Sami people but also take into account the tradition of local and other Swedes in the area, which takes into account the interest and need to hunt and fish in the way that has happened for a long time, and that this takes place in an inclusive dialogue with stakeholders in order to find a sustainable way forward.
i-77s9AB9LPuQZPfigRDA2xi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Runar Filer, for your speech. In Sweden, we live in a legal society where individuals and organisations have the right to appeal against government decisions. It is a very hello from several different who will form, centralize and create new authorities and appoint new Directors-General to take care of hunting and game conservation. Is this new authority supposed to follow the same law that today's authorities are supposed to follow? That is one question. Should the Species and Habitats Directive be complied with? Should Swedish legislation be complied with? Or is this authority suddenly going to work in something completely different from all the other authorities in Sweden? I would also like to ask whether Mr Runar has read the investigation directives in relation to the reindeer husbandry investigation. They're pretty tall. Would it have been enough if we had added a few more words? What's missing? Which organisations and competences are lacking among those listed as experts? Is it an additional landowner's perspective, a municipal perspective or something? After all, it is no less than 28 experts, I believe, from various interests, not least the hunters' associations, who are to be added to the investigation so that the broad parliamentary inquiry can receive as broad a support as possible. If you have read the investigation directives, I think you can say that most of it fits there. Then, of course, it is also a parliamentary inquiry that has the opportunity to shape its proposal.
i-3zU2KPy1EMG2WTU8YK7bbd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Isak From! The new game conservation agency will of course comply with Swedish legislation and the Species and Habitats Directive in the same way as the law requires. But it will also have a much greater rural base and a more specialised unit than is the case with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has a lot on its agenda, a lot of areas where hunting and game is only part of it. We believe that a game conservation agency would have an immensely better anchor with dialogue between rural people, organisations and authorities. It would be much better, and we also believe that it would create less discord in the areas where you often feel quite run over. Yes, government decisions may be appealed, just as you say. However, we are opposed to a Facebook group or an organisation that says that it has 100 members although it does not have it, may lack an activity report and so on, being allowed to appeal government decisions. It's all wrong, we think. It is also up the walls that you can sit far away in Sweden and appeal something that happens in Värmland, for example, without being affected by that particular event or event, with predators and so on. As far as the directives following the Girjas judgment are concerned, even the local people are not mentioned there. The broader directives will now be voted through, which is very good, which will take more account of other peoples and minorities in the area. This is just a writing between Girja and the state, so a broader dialogue here is absolutely welcome. It has also been voted by a majority in this House.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-832	Madam President, I would like We've changed this. Just as Runar Filer said in the speaker's chair, there have been criticisms that various organisations have received grants from the Wildlife Fund that might not have received it. Therefore, the Government has clarified the directives so that grants from the Fund will promote and be compatible with the objectives of the Hunting Act. One should have an anchor in the whole of Sweden, one should be a democratic organisation and so on, just as I said in my speech. As a result, only two organisations were assessed to meet the requirements. Now we have therefore strongly tightened the requirements so that it is only the Hunters' National Association and an international bird dog club that receives subsidies. No other organisations that had applied for receive grants. Is that what Runar Filper and the Swedish Democrats want to investigate? Was it right that only these two received subsidies? Or is there anything else that Runar Filer thinks you should investigate?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-835	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Isak. Yes, contributions from the Fund should go to democratic organisations and such. It's great that only two of these many times strange organizations had applied. That the Hunters' National Association has got their 8 million is great. The fact that an international dog club has received subsidies may also seem good. But this is just the beginning. It's only been a few months. What is the future? What will happen? That is a good start, and if this continues, there is nothing to be said about. But we don't know if it does, because this is just in its infancy. It's very hard to know at this point what you're getting up to. But these are good intentions, as Isak says, and it has, in any case, started well, because the hunters cannot be obliged to finance organisations that oppose their interests. Isak From should also agree that it would be very unfortunate if that were the case. Now I don't remember the other questions. Thank you for the floor.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-839	Madam President, I would like Of course, I and the Center Party support all our reservations in the report, but for the benefit of time, I would ask for the approval of reservation 8 only. This report contains more things than what the title of the report states. In addition to the feeding of game, there are questions about the hunting and game conservation mission, a game conservation agency, lead ammunition and hunting and reindeer husbandry etc. I will now explain to you where the Center Party stands on these issues. I'll start with feeding wild game. In 2016, the Government presented a bill that did not receive support in the Riksdag. The proposal we are now discussing has been revised on the basis of what was then presented by the majority of the Riksdag. What the Riksdag said in 2016 was that the general ban on feeding was too far-reaching and that it was above all wrong and excessive feeding of cloven-hoofed game that should be regulated. The proposal that we are to decide on today is a compromise that allows the County Administrative Board, in individual cases, to decide on a ban or conditions for the feeding of wild game if it is necessary to prevent or reduce the risk of traffic accidents involving wild game or if there is a risk that the game will cause serious damage to property. The proposal is, as I said, a compromise proposal in which we can see that the LRF and the Swedish Hunter Association are far apart on the issue of the view of feeding. The Centre Party has had the following comments on the proposal that is now before us. An evaluation of the legislative proposal needs to be carried out in a relatively short time. There, the committee has jointly decided that it will take place during the next parliamentary term. Furthermore, the Center Party believes that the proposal should cover only cloven-hoofed game, but we did not get support for that in committee. The Center Party also believes that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be tasked with providing guidance on feeding cloven-hoofed game to county administrative boards that at the same time allow local considerations to be taken into account, so that there are not too different interpretations of the legislation. We have also proposed that general rules should be drawn up on what is permitted to feed and on what methods are allowed to feed. However, none of these proposals have been supported in committee. Madam President, I would like Now I would like to join the hunting and game conservation mission that the Swedish Hunters' Association has conducted in an exemplary way on behalf of the state since 1938. Unfortunately, the government announced earlier this year that the assignment was taken from the Swedish Hunters' Association because m an from the government made the interpretation that the assignment had to be procured. I mean with others that the government would have fought for the Swedish model that worked well for so many years. Since the mission is financed from the VIT Fund, which in turn receives its revenue from the state hunting card for which all hunters pay annually, it becomes very strange that the mission must be procured. It is a grant, and grants do not need to be procured. If the government had the will to defend the Swedish model, we would not have ended up in the very strange situation that has now arisen. I and the Center Party have made proposals that the funding of the game conservation mission should take place in multi-annual periods rather than annually. This would create better conditions for planning operations. This proposal is also supported by the committee. The proposal is now that decisions on funding the hunting and game conservation mission should be taken for three years at a time. Madam President, I would like The Wildlife Fund is funded by the State Hunting Card. The state hunting card is mandatory for all hunting in Sweden. The Center Party believes that the funds of the Viltvårdsfond should be allocated to organisations and authorities working for hunting, wildlife and nature conservation. A majority in the committee therefore believes that a review of the organisations to be financed from the Fund should be carried out. It is offensive to hunters that their paid money should be involved in financing organisations that oppose hunting. Madam President, I would like The Riksdag has previously decided on an announcement to the Government that a new authority for hunting and game management should be investigated. In this report, the Center Party gives a special opinion on this because we have been pursuing this issue for many years. Since this is budgetary impact and we are negotiating budget with the government, it means that we are pushing the issue in budgetary cooperation and not through the exercise instrument. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party have stated in the report that lead in ammunition should not be banned as long as there are no adequate alternatives to ensure safe hunting. We believe that such a ban on lead has unreasonable consequences for hunting in Sweden. Sweden has a lot of wetlands and watercourses, and adding that there must be a safety distance means that large parts of the country would be subject to a ban on lead in ammunition. Now we have lost this issue in Europe, so now it is about how the directive is to be implemented in Sweden. Although Minister for the Environment Per Bolund does not support the majority of Parliament on this issue, I hope that he will now ensure that the implementation is adapted to Swedish conditions as far as possible. Madam President, I would like The government will set up a parliamentary committee to investigate reindeer husbandry legislation. The Center Party and several other parties have been exercising about this, so that part is very good. In January 2020, the Supreme Court gave judgment in the so-called Girjas case between Girja Sami Village and the State. The judgment which, in its ruling, leans against the ancient tradition, granted Girja Sami village the exclusive right to small game hunting and fishing with the sole right of disposal in the Sami village area. The Court's ruling has created a great deal of uncertainty among the local population and others who have hunted and fished for generations in the areas to which the Sami people now have exclusive rights. The decision on the issue of Girja should have been taken at political level and not by the courts because it is a question of weighing different interests against each other and the legislation has been unclear in this regard. The committee believes that there is a need for an inclusive dialogue that takes into account both the rights of Sami people and the local population and other residents in Sweden's possibility of small game hunting and fishing. The Committee Directives should also take greater account, inter alia, of economic activities such as forestry and tourism. The directives to the Parliamentary Committee are too weak on these points. The local population and other residents in Sweden who have also hunted and fished on these land for generations are not even mentioned in the directives, nor are the organisations that gather hunters. The Directives provide that the Committee is to assess, inter alia, which parts of State-owned land which co-habit in relation to the State have the exclusive right to allow small game hunting and fishing and that the Committee is to review whether other hunting is also to be transferred to the Sami. The directives as they stand today are increasing rather than reducing the tensions that exist. The committee's majority therefore wants the directives to be supplemented by proposals that take into account the rights of Sami people, but also take into account the tradition, interest and need of local people and other Swedes to hunt and fish in the way they have been doing for a long time and that this takes place with an inclusive dialogue with stakeholders in order to find a sustainable way forward. Madam President, I would like I wish everyone a nice summer!
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-862	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that, in this report too, we have received several announcements to the anti-hunting government in many parts, which we had until this morning. The Christian Democrats are a party that clearly highlights rural issues, where hunting is a key element. At the same time, this report is about finding a balance with regard to the green industries; we heard about major grazing damage. There is a great risk that parts of it, as we have heard before, land wrong because there is no evidence that all these measures would help. My colleague Magnus Oscarsson will talk more about the feeding of game. That's why I'm going to leave it pretty fast. In this connection, however, I would like to endorse Amendment No 6 on feeding in the event of infection. As I said, the report proposes a number, four paragraphs, announcements. I expect the government to deliver from them and not just put them in a drawer, locks and throws the key in Riddarfjärden, as we have unfortunately seen far too often. Speaking of this morning's exercises, it seems a little strange in a democracy that the majority's decisions do not have an impact without the government instead trying to delay or even oppose decisions taken by the Swedish parliament. As we have heard before, we have clearly seen this with regard to the establishment of a game agency. The Parliament has addressed several announcements to the government on the matter without anything happening. Finally, the issue has now been buried by the fact that the hunting and game management mission has been slaughtered on the very wrong grounds and that the new mission and a game agency are not compatible. That is remarkable action, Madam President. We have discussed the hunting and game conservation mission in previous debates. I have also had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Rural Development on this issue. And as we heard earlier, the government is trying to hide behind an EU pilot. It is only that the EU pilot was decommissioned long before the government took that decision. The pilot was shut down because the EU felt that they had nothing to do with it. It's national competence. Yet they try to hide behind it. I have noticed that several members of Parliament from the Green Party have clearly stretched out when the decision has been made, beaten their chests and been pleased and pleased that the issue has finally been taken on board. But it blames the EU. Now they put the mission on the authority that has absolutely the lowest confidence in the hunting corps. But who is actually supposed to carry out the missions? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency does not have its own staff who go out in the middle of the night on a traffic search. No, it's hunters who will do it anyway. Dear government, or former government or whatever we're about to say after today's exercises! Do it again, and do it right! Several have referred to the short-term nature of the decisions. The Swedish Hunter Association has been clear that you want to have longer periods so that you know what you have to comply with. We heard Isak From point out that the government has now implemented it. However, we can read in the report that longer time should be allowed. It says that you should get, not that you should get, as we say. They must be informed for at least three years at a time in order to be able to plan their operations. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that a majority supports a Christian Democratic motion that the Wildlife Fund should not fund anti-hunting organisations. The reason we have exercised it is because it has been exactly that way. In the past, the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation has thus received a grant from the Swedish Wildlife Fund for a project involving whiteback woodpeckers. It is not reasonable for hunters to be forced to finance an activity that discourages their interest or research into a wild species that is not hunted. Of course, we want to clarify our view on the matter. The Wildlife Fund's money will go back to hunting organisations. Thank you for your support! In January 2020, the Supreme Court delivered its judgment in the Girjas case, as we have heard here before. In the judgment, the decision was based on the ancient tradition and granted Girja Sami village the exclusive right to small game hunting and fishing with the sole right of disposal in the Sami village area. At the same time, the judgment says that there may be other parties who have equal or greater rights than the Sami, but that has not been tried. As we have heard several people say, this has led to great uncertainty and discord, not least between reindeer husbandry Sami and Sami who are not reindeer keepers, and between locals and reindeer husbandry Sami and others who have hunted and fished in these areas for generations. It is great that a parliamentary committee should review the reindeer nutrition law, which we have been exercising about. The decision on the matter should have been taken here in the Swedish parliament, not in the neighbouring building, in the Supreme Court. When different interests are to be weighed against each other, the legislator must nevertheless go in. Not only the locals up there, but many others who usually go up to hunt, fish and make use of the possibilities there are equally uncertain. In addition, the Directives should take greater account of other economic activities such as forestry and tourism. As the directives stand today, they are increasing rather than reducing the tensions that exist. We therefore want the directives to be supplemented by proposals that take into account the rights of Sami people, but also take into account the traditions, interests and needs of local people and other Swedes when it comes to hunting and fishing in the way that has happened for a long time. The government should be aware that, as the directives now appear, half the problem is being ignored. What is now being done in its directives is not a sustainable way forward. I am fully aware that it is the government that owns the directives, but we still have to take the right to point out when there is something that we think is wrong. The last announcement is part of the proposal on wild nutrition, which we have heard about before, and concerns something that should be a matter of course: that in the next parliamentary term there should be an assessment of the consequences of the legislative changes. There is ongoing research in this field. That research report will be submitted in 2022. This should also be taken into account when we really get research in this area, because evidence that the measures now proposed really help are lacking today. Madam President, I would like We note more and more often that the EU is trying to put sticks in the wheels of Sweden's rural areas, for the green industries and for the hunt. We see many of the European Union's strategies that are certainly not appropriate, but they go – towards better knowledge – far too far in their interventions. It now looks like we have managed to eliminate the worst of the worst in terms of banning hunting and fishing in strictly protected areas. It's a small victory, but then there'll be other scams instead. The issue of a ban on lead is one. This will have major consequences for Sweden's hunters. When Minister Bolund was in committee, we noted that he did not have expertise in the matter, but still felt that a ban on lead was the right way to go. The weapons of many hunters will not be able to be used, with the result that you have to buy new ones if you want to continue. The risk of ricochetes will increase radically with hail and bullets made of harder materials than lead. This exposes humans as well as dogs and wildlife to additional dangers. As in many other cases, the thought has not been thought all the way out. A ban on lead becomes pure symbolism. Moreover, the legislation, as it is now written, is very legally insecure. When a temporary puddle of water is considered to be wetland, it shows that those who write and support the proposals can hardly have been out in the forest. Perhaps they have other intentions or just want to put sticks in the wheels. Madam President, I would like The hunt is our greatest cultural heritage. It is an important part of the quality of life in rural areas. It provides locally produced, climate-smart meat. Now that we have voted out a largely anti-hunting government, I hope that the new government will have a different direction and that it will not pursue a anti-hunting policy but look after the interests of rural and rural people. There, hunting is an important part.
i-2mXB3puHpc2GrhoW9ihnJj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for your speech. I followed with interest Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's interpellation debate with rural minister Jennie Nilsson on Friday. It felt good. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 I participated in interpellation debates with the Alliance government ministers. They, too, were about rip hunting. However, the entrance of the Alliance government was that rip hunting was a service to be provided to the whole of the EU. Anyone could come to Sweden and hunt anyway. Above all, Norwegians would be allowed to come and hunt. It became a circus. We promised this would change. I admit that former Minister of Agriculture Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht may have aimed a little too high when he thought he would change the regulation in a few weeks. It took a few years, but it could be changed. I feel happy to belong to a party and a government base that can change what has gone wrong. It felt good and fun that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson received a positive message in his interpellation debate that it was wrong when it came to the rip hunt, that the government has reconsidered and that it has changed everything. In some areas there was even an increase in hunting compared to before. This feels good. I agree with Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson : Let's hope we get a government that can change and do the right thing when it happened to be a little wrong.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-886	Madam President, I would like I certainly share the joy, Isak From. As Isak From followed the debate – I think he said it was with great interest – I expect he also heard me bragging to the Minister for Rural Development. In fact, I had submitted a written question on the rip hunt. The answer I received was not an answer. I had asked what was actually behind the decision. The day after the answer had arrived, Question Time was here in the Chamber, and Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson was here. I took the opportunity to ask the same question again, because I had not received an answer to my written question. I then asked what was actually behind it. Jennie Nilsson mentioned two things. It was partly biology, partly the input of various organizations. Since research is clear that hunting does not play a role in the survival of ripors – other parameters apply – it is clear that other organisations have an influence on the government's design of hunting policy. However, as I said, I am very pleased that the government and Jennie Nilsson released the prestige, redoed and did the right thing. As the Minister for Rural Affairs said, they did not realise how culturally important the issue was. I think that's the way it was. That's why it's good if you can change your mind. I can fully agree with Isak From on this, and I hope that the government can change its mind on more issues where things have gone wrong. You can look at what the Environmental Protection Agency said. In fact, they went further than the government did and wanted to extend the rip hunt even more. However, we returned to square one again, and we are grateful for that.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-891	Madam President, I would like In part, there were also changes below the cultivation limit or the patchland limit. There you can now hunt both tjäder as well as orre and dalripa until 15 February, which is longer than today. This too is positive. I want to continue on the trail I was on. As Kjell-Kjell-Arne pointed out, there has been strong criticism of some of the organisational grants. Grants paid out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have gone to organisations that may not be fully engaged in hunting and game conservation. In any case, it has been doubtful whether the Wildlife Fund's money should go to this. The fact that the white-backed woodpecker project belongs elsewhere is important in another context and possibly should be financed through the tax bill instead is another matter. This is the reason why changes have been made and it has been made clear to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that grants that are awarded will promote the hunting law's aims and intentions. This meant that only two organisations that applied for grants also received grants. Yet Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and the Christian Democrats will investigate and review this. That is why I have the same question as before: Which organisations should receive funding? Are there any of them who were searching now but who were not allowed to receive it? Is there another organization that should be allowed but that was not allowed? Or how does Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson think this should work? Is it not the aims and intentions of the hunting law that must be the basis? Is not what the government has actually done what is right and right, that is to say that it has changed and clarified how the Wildlife Fund's money is to be used?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-895	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for the question! Indeed, it is the aims and intentions of the hunting law that should be behind it. That is why, several years ago, we wrote a proposal in our overall hunting and game conservation movement that grants should not go to organisations that carry out activities that are purely anti-hunting. This has been the case until the change took place last spring. But we don't know what it's gonna be like. The organisations are looking for years to come. Will you be as clear as that or what will happen? To be clear: Organisations that do not engage in hunting and game conservation activities should not have money. It's supposed to be very clear. I understand that a lot of people were concerned when they saw the list of all the applications that came in. There were even organizations that are directly hostile to hunting. The motion wrote, as I said, years ago. We've been working to get a majority, and now we've got it. It is very good to be able to clearly point out that the Swedish Parliament has made a decision that the Wildlife Fund's money – the money that the hunters have paid in order for them to hunt – should go back to the hunters and not to anyone else.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-898	Madam President, I would like For time-winning, I only ask for reservation 25, but we in the Liberals naturally support all our proposals. As many speakers have said, the proposal deals with changes to the hunting law that allow the prohibition and conditions for the feeding of game. It is important to recall that the last time proposals were submitted to Parliament, they were rejected. The bill was presented and rejected in 2016, and the government was commissioned to return to the Riksdag with new proposals. It has been many years and we can see that many organisations, landowners and other stakeholders have called for proposals that help to deal with the situation that has arisen. I note that the Moderates are calling for the whole proposal to be rejected instead of making alternative proposals. The Moderates announce that the government will return with further proposals on the matter. The Liberals have submitted supplementary proposals to the bill. We believe that this can be further strengthened. But we welcome the fact that there are finally proposals for Parliament to take a position on. We in the Liberals believe that it is important to create opportunities to find measures that deal not least with the wild boar strain. We have also contributed to various initiatives within the framework of the January agreement. It is about the wild boar package and many different efforts to increase the demand for wild boar meat and for issues related to cesium and trichinae tests, as mentioned earlier in the debate. There are many measures to increase demand and to find measures to reduce the development of the strain over time. A lot of landowners have been in touch. Many landowners are very committed to this issue. And many landowners have also called for additional measures. The Swedish wild boar tribe has grown from a few hundred individuals in the 1980s to about 300 000 individuals in 2020. They are established in almost all of southern and central Sweden all the way up to Gävleborg County. There are also reports of wild boars further north. During the 2019/ 20 hunting year, approximately 146 000 animals were killed. Despite extensive hunting, net growth has previously been estimated at around 30 percent per year, which corresponds to a doubling of the number of wild boars in three years. The high growth rate is unique and separates wild boar from other cloven-hoofed game. The explanation is that wild boars have a high reproductive capacity with many pups per year, which affects development. For 2015, the cost of wild boar damage in agriculture was estimated at more than SEK 1 billion for the whole country. In addition to damage to agriculture, wild game also causes damage to other property, such as forest, house plots and golf courses. The game is also involved in a large number of traffic accidents. Even here in Stockholm County, we who stay in the forest and land can see what the development looks like. According to statistics from the National Council for Wildlife Accidents, the number of wildlife accidents has increased over the last five years, and wild boars are increasingly involved in these accidents. According to data from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the total cost of wildlife accidents has doubled in five years and amounted to SEK 5 billion in 2018, of which SEK 1 billion relates to rail traffic. The costs of wild boar accidents are now equal to those of moose. Madam President, I would like There are also risks and challenges other than damage to land and traffic accidents. Unfortunately, there is extensive experience in other EU countries of the spread of African swine fever. We must take advantage of the lessons learned by these countries and introduce the methods that have proved to be effective in limiting the development and spread of the disease. It may be necessary to limit wild boars locally by hunting in order to create an area free from wild boar in order to prevent the virus and the disease from spreading. The economic consequences of spreading in Sweden would be very great. The spread of African swine fever has been achieved in other countries by the consumption of food and feed contaminated by wild boars which have subsequently spread the disease. Therefore, in several EU countries there are strict rules on access to food and feeding for wild boars. This should also be taken into account in the Swedish regulations. Prevention of infection can be improved through preventive measures. Madam President, I would like Several speakers have been concerned with guidance. We in the Liberals have also put forward proposals for improved guidance. They concern the work of the authorities. Several consultation bodies, including several county boards, point out that there is a need for national guidelines to be developed for the county boards' work on cases of prohibition and conditions for the feeding of game. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals have also highlighted further measures. It is about the geographical demarcation and validity of the feeding decisions and an evaluation of the legislation. We are pleased that many parties have supported this, and there is an announcement about the evaluation. Madam President, I would like I will also mention something about lead, which has been a highly topical issue for a long time. Often in this debate there is little emphasis on the environment compared to other perspectives. I would like to highlight the environmental impact of lead handling. According to the EU, tens of thousands of tonnes of lead are distributed in nature within the Union every year because of hunting and fishing. Birds eat lead. Damaged animals are eaten by other animals, and lead is enriched in them. Around thousands of tonnes end up in wetlands, and approximately 1 million seabirds die of lead poisoning annually in the EU. Lead can cause other injuries to other individuals even at very low doses. It is prohibited to use lead hail ammunition in hunting for wetland and over shallow parts of open water but not elsewhere. The environmental reasons for reducing the use of leaded ammunition, particularly hail, are strong. The current restrictions in Sweden were added because it has long been known that seabirds peck in themselves hail and that birds of prey that eat the seabirds in turn are poisoned. When we debate lead ammunition, the environmental perspective must also be highlighted. In the end, we consume people meat that can contain lead. Today, in many countries, we have a clear trend in which young hunters are beginning to opt out of lead ammunition. You're looking for replacement ammunition. It could be both steel and bismuth. However, we Liberals believe that there is a dilemma in dealing with the issue of lead. This concerns the issue of wetland supervision. We believe that the Coast Guard is not responsible. Then you have to find someone else who is responsible for supervision if you impose additional restrictions. Madam President, I would like I shall also say something about the announcement of the so-called comitology directives. As far as we are concerned, this is an unfortunate development, because these comitology directives have been drawn up in a very comprehensive process of listening to various stakeholders. These are very difficult issues that many governments have been working on. We believe it is important that those whom we have nominated to sit on the Committee should be given the opportunity to work in accordance with the committee directives that have been drawn up. I would also like to remind you that the usual time is that a government taking office is able to amend various types of comitology directives, as has always been done. There is a perspective which has not emerged in the debate but which I would like to remind you personally. We in the Liberals have worked for many years to strengthen national minorities. We believe that the status of the Sami people as indigenous peoples and the right to exercise reindeer husbandry and exploit land is something that we must always highlight in the debates and protect. Madam President, I would like The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has had many long meetings and intensive debates. Sometimes we disagree very much. Sometimes we get along very well. The questions are engaging. Madam President, I would like In Liberals' long commitment to biodiversity, ecosystems, to use and protect forests, accessible beaches, non-toxic environment and responsible predatory policies, we always have scales where we weigh of issues against each other and where the environmental perspective is always included.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-920	Madam President, I would like On 21 June 2021, today's date, will go down in history due to the vote of confidence held here in Parliament. It may not be of equal historical value that we are debating hunting and game conservation here in Parliament today. But there are some similarities in the issues that lie at the heart. Just as the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party agree that market rents are not good, we agree that environmental organisations should be able to receive compensation from the Wildlife Fund. We are hearing here today that there are speakers who believe that the Nature Conservation Society's Whiteback Woodpecker Project would not be accommodated within the framework of a game issue. Then I would like to remind you of the purpose of the hunting law, which says that wild mammals and birds are meant by the law. The legislation also states that the game should be cared for in order to preserve the species of game belonging to the country's mammal game population and the species of birds present in Sweden. So it is not just the species we hunt that are the subject of game conservation. Nor would I claim, as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson does, that the Nature Conservation Society is an anti-hunting organisation. If you look at the hunting policy of the Society for Nature Conservation, which is available online, the Society for Nature Conservation talks about the need for good hunting ethics. Rich game strains provide strong and good ecosystem services. Sustainable use of natural resources is essential. We need an ecosystem approach in the hunt. EU law must be respected. The indigenous peoples must be respected. The Nature Conservation Association also talks about how good and good game meat is. Madam President, I would like New rules are needed for the feeding of wild game. The government has presented a bill that we are discussing here today. The reason is that farmers and forest owners have major problems with, among other things, cloven-hoofed game, and the risks of traffic accidents with wild game are increasing. The feeding of wild game for hunting purposes is a special interest for landowners with precisely hunting activities. After all, however, it affects other landowners with agriculture and forestry very hard as the tribes of wild boars and deer today are growing very strongly. We know that hunting interests are strong, and they have an influence on some of the parties in Parliament. This is evident when we debate hunting issues, Madam President. This is not the first time a bill on this issue has been tabled. However, this time the committee supports the Government's proposal to amend the Hunting Act. The proposal provides for the prohibition and conditions for the feeding of wild game. The proposal also gives the County Administrative Board a role to be able to decide on a ban. In fact, it is necessary to reduce traffic accidents and the risk of wildlife causing serious damage to property. There is a need for sustainable wild boar management. There, the January parties in budgetary cooperation have decided on how the small-scale wild boar work should be carried out. The government has decided on changes to the Wildlife Fund. Here the government has clarified that the Swedish Hunter Association will be able to apply for a multi-annual organisational grant from 2022 onwards. The reason for the changes is that the current model is contrary to the Public Procurement Act, which the European Commission has criticised in a pilot case. After Sweden has informed the European Commission that it is taking action and changing the procedure, the European Commission has closed the case. Now we are adapting the general mandate to current legislation. At the same time, we take the opportunity to ensure the future of the general assignment by giving the Swedish Hunter Association a long-term assignment with multi-annual funding. Nevertheless, the Parliament wishes to make an announcement on multi-annual funding. Isn't that weird? Why do you hear so bad? In connection with the decisions, the Government has communicated that the Swedish Hunter Association will be able to receive a more purely organisational grant from the Viltvårdsfonden from 2022 onwards. This is so that the association can maintain the unique role that has been played since 1938 and continue to be able to carry out its nationwide work for the country's wildlife conservation. The Green Party has agreed to this compromise against the fact that we now also have a legal order for the whole. One can certainly argue that an operating grant that the Swedish Hunter Association has should be comparable to that of other organisations in the future. But that question will have to be discussed in the future. In order to give the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency time to ensure that measures relating to, among other things, game monitoring, traffic search and biungulate game management are carried out, the Swedish Hunter Association's general mission has been extended during 2021. I would also like to mention another initiative made by the government. It was to grant SVA a grant of SEK 5 million. Wildlife research also received increased funding by SEK 23 million at the same time. During this year, the Swedish Hunters' Association will be able to contribute to the mobilisation of suspected wild game diseases such as African swine fever. I think that's very good. The government recently decided on changes to the hunting time regulation regarding until further hunting bans for the eider. As a bird watcher I find it sad that one very rarely sees eiders on the coast nowadays. The species has returned sharply. The decision is widely welcomed by those interested in the environment and means that Sweden can now comply with EU environmental legislation. Madam President, I would like For decades Sweden has been pushing in the EU to reduce the use of lead in ammunition. Lead affects our nervous system and how our brains develop. Lead is not just any subject. It is one of the most dangerous substances known to mankind. Lead particularly affects the nervous system and is particularly harmful for unborn children and also for children in the first years of life. All exposure, however small, is considered to lead to harmful effects. The phasing out of lead has been a Swedish goal for many years. The other day there were media reports that even the bear is affected by high levels of lead. But above all, birds are being poisoned. That is why it is so incredibly important to ensure that we stop hunting with lead hail in wetland areas. There is growing criticism from parties with an environmentally dangerous agenda that the European Commission is exceeding its powers. It concerns this issue as well as forestry policy and water policy. Chemical legislation on lead is fully harmonised at EU level. This issue concerns part of the internal market. The action of the parties is a questioning of the very foundations of how chemicals are regulated at EU level and is actually very strange. The Moderates and other parties who do not think there are any problems with lead in ammunition are sitting in the lap of the hunting lobby. With this kind of populist step that we have now seen in the winter, for example in decisions by the EU Board, we are breaking down Sweden's environmental credibility in the EU. This risks having consequences for Sweden's ability to bring the rest of the EU on strong chemicals regulations, by the way. It's well worth thinking about. The ban on lead ammunition in wetland areas will not put an end to hunting. There you can switch to other types of ammunition. Madam President, I would like There is today a discussion on the definition of wetlands. I would like to point out that the definition is taken from the International Ramsar Convention, which is the only agreed uniform definition of wetland that exists. Sweden is a party to the Convention and has endorsed the definition. To say in principle that the whole of Sweden consists of wetland is, however, a misconception. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 20 per cent of Sweden's surface area could be defined as wetland according to the definition of the Ramsar Convention. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about the investigation into new reindeer husbandry legislation. Here we have received directives for an investigation that will be a broad and long investigation with a parliamentary basis. Isak From has talked about the question in essence with the Girjas judgment where the Supreme Court made statements that the custom should be taken into account when settling disputes relating to land rights relating to Sami people. According to the judgment, it is necessary to ensure that indigenous peoples and minority groups continue to have access to land traditionally used by them. The parliamentary committee that is under way has a large and broad group of experts. It is both representatives from the Sametinget and its all parties and from interest organisations, including the Swedish Hunter Association and the Sports Fishermen and many more. I think it is very important to remember how important it is that we have parliamentary investigations and that the parties in these investigations can bring their questions to work. It is by no means forbidden. Madam President, I would like I have oversold my speaking time, so I will simply endorse our reservation 24. Of course, the Green Party supports all the reservations we have signed.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-949	Madam President, I would like I did so several times in the course of Maria Gardfjell's speech and had to ask if I heard correctly in one place. Maria Gardfjell made a spokesperson for the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party and said that you agree that nature conservation organisations will receive funding from the Wildlife Fund. That's what I thought I heard. That's what I want to make sure. Was that right? I noted in the change of line I had earlier with Isak From, who is of course a member of one of these parties, that he said something quite different. He said that when it comes to the white-backed woodpecker, the money for it should go from the tax note rather than from what is hunters' money. Then Maria Gardfjell claimed that the Nature Conservation Association was an association that absolutely did not discourage hunting. Then I just want to ask Maria Gardfjell to look at what it looks like, not least on the predator front. Welcome to Värmland, to wolfland, and see how it is experienced there when the Nature Conservation Association repeatedly appeals all that has to do with wolf hunting! The point made by Maria Gardfjell does not actually apply. So, did I hear you right?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-954	Madam President, I would like Of course Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson heard right! We fully agree that organisations should be able to receive compensation from the Wildlife Fund if they meet the basic requirements of the Hunting Act. I would say that since the hunting law deals with the treatment of wild game and that wild mammals and birds are meant by wild game, the Nature Conservation Association can of course also be an organisation that can be the subject of compensation from this pot. As far as the Nature Conservation Association is concerned, I would like to say a number of things. I think that their work on nature, but also on game issues, is extremely valuable. Think about all the projects that the Swedish Nature Conservation Association has been working on for a long time! We would not have had the sea eagle or pilgrim falcon left in Sweden if it had not been for the important work of the Nature Conservation Association. As far as the hunting of wolves is concerned, I from the Green Party believe that it is extremely important to comply with EU law, and I know that the Nature Protection Association also thinks so. We need predators and predators in Sweden; we cannot eradicate species. When we see the development we have in the world in terms of biodiversity, I think it is serious that the Christian Democrats repeatedly show that they do not want to protect our wild animals in Sweden.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-958	Madam President, I would like Given this answer, it is very clear that it was quite right for us to push through the announcement that organisations that discourage hunting and game conservation should not receive money. That was right from what Maria Gardfjell has said here. We received criticism for it earlier, but it is quite clear that we have done the right thing. Once again, one might wonder who is in the government, but we have a government in which the Green Party is involved. And we know that with such a government we must be on our toes because it is so uncertain what actually applies to hunters. Does Maria Gardfjell mean that hunters will pay even for pilgrim falcons, eagles and whatever species they may be and for their survival? Is that supposed to be on the hunting card? Is it supposed to be on the hunters' money, or is this money going back to hunting? Maria Gardfjell has mentioned other organisations which, if so, would do their part? The hunters stand for themselves. Or should hunters be involved in paying for everything else and non-hunting game? Finally, Madam President, I note that the Green Party is doing what is usually done. They confuse the world and Sweden and claim that we have a large extinction of species in Sweden. That's not true, and you know it. But you know that there are troubles in some parts of the world, and then you take it down to Sweden to be able to run with this though you know that it is not true. And no, Maria Gardfjell, we don't want to exterminate the wolves. But we want to have a smaller tribe so that it works to continue with rural life, works to continue with the green industries and works to continue hunting as it has for generations. That is what we want, and we now see that the tribe despite a small but still wolf hunt this winter has increased even more.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-963	Madam President, I would like When we last discussed wolf in this Chamber, there were as many wolves in Sweden as there were MPs here in the Riksdag. Now there are more, because now they have puppies. But there aren't many more than that. Greater genetic diversity is needed in the wolf, and protection of the wolf is needed. The hunting of wolves will also work, for it is important when the wolf comes into conflict with, for example, sheep farmers and people who have hunting dogs. Then you may need to protect the wolf. But then we must also create this space precisely by removing the possibilities of licensing and removing the harmful illegal hunting of wolves. What Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson says is not true. Many species have been exterminated in Sweden. Last week we had a seminar in connection with the new species protection investigation that has arrived. Artdatabanken stated that there are 217 species that have been exterminated in Sweden, most of which are linked to forestry and other types of land use. There is every reason to know and know that the extinction of species and the threat to biodiversity are not just a matter of concern in the rainforest. It's not something that's just happening in Borneo or somewhere in Far Faraway. It is also a very important issue here in Sweden. When it comes to the nature protection association's work with wolves and different species, I have to say that I believe that the nature protection association finances most of it through its members and their fees.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-968	Madam President, I would like I can agree with much of Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's questions. I noted that the Moderates were mentioned in the speech. I would like to respond when we get the words stuck in our mouths – that the Moderates do not think there are any problems whatsoever with the use of lead ammunition. That's wrong. We know very well that there are problems with lead ammunition. We know, for example, that there are lead residues in the meat that is handled in our game handling plants, as the Swedish Food Safety Agency reported a few years ago. It's a huge problem that we don't handle carcasses shot with lead ammunition in a better way. We know about this. We know that there are problems with birds and lead ammunition. We also know that there are currently a little too few good alternatives to lead ammunition. Maybe I'm thinking primarily of bullet ammunition. With hail, I think we have come further, and we see that it works when used in wetlands. Then we can discuss what is and is not wetlands, but we do not need to do that now. It's lead we're talking about, and that's where we've seen that we've come further. However, we must not rush past the issue of lead so that we do not have any alternatives. Forgive the expression, Mr. Age President, but some of the options kill a little too badly. It can go against wild animals when today we do not have adequate alternatives. This is what I'm worried about, if we rush too fast. Then I would like to hear the Green Party's view on the proposal on feeding. How is the proposal contained in the proposal supposed to make a difference? A limited area for a limited time – what difference will it make if it is an area that has problems with large game tribes? I'd love to hear that.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-973	Mr. Old President! There were several questions that John Widegren asked, but we can start with lead. Lead affects our nervous system and our brains, especially in small children and unborn children. All exposure, however small, is considered to lead to serious effects. The phasing out of lead has been a Swedish position for at least ten years. We have pushed this hard in Europe. Now the Moderates have woken up, on the wrong side. If the EU restricts the 4 000 tonnes of lead per year distributed in wetlands within the EU, this would prevent the deaths of about one million seabirds each year. I have to say that this is a great breeding ground for an improved seabird hunt, alongside the fact that, of course, there will also be a better ecological balance in nature when birds do not die from lead poisoning. But we also have the secondary poisoning of predators and scavengers and the risks to us people who eat lead-poisoned meat. This is not a huge risk, as we eat far too little game meat, but if we eat more game meat than we do today, these issues will become much more pressing. I think it is important to point out that there is a need for research and development of alternative bullets or whatever it is. It is already on the market today. At the same time as we start to use what is available today, we can also continue to work on innovation.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-977	Mr. Old President! I notice that I didn't get all the answers to all the questions, but maybe it will. We heard about the same thing again, about the birds and the lead. Yes, there are absolute problems. Me and the Moderates aren't saying this is trouble-free, but let's not rush into it. Don't let it become costly circumstances that allow fewer people to hunt, and don't let it go out on the animals we hunt! There are a number of issues that we need to deal with, and the Green Party's Maria Gardfjell also raises some of the problems of rushing into this. I would like to come back to the issue of the feeding of game. If it is the case that we have large game tribes in one area and there is someone who feeds there, and so we ban feeding in the area for a certain period of time, as the proposal says we can do, what will be the result? Yes, to more severe damage to agriculture. The animals may move over larger areas and move more over public roads. Would it not have been better to focus first and foremost on reviewing existing legislation? Some authorities believe that it can be used if we only get one assignment. Wouldn't that be a good thing before we rush into something new without having a proposal that's investigated or evidenced? It is now being researched, just as KD's representative told us here earlier, on what the feeding actually does when it comes to the game. Perhaps we could use existing legislation in the meantime until we see the effects of this? It would be interesting to hear the Green Party representative respond to how one can think that this toothless proposal on the table will lead to something?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-982	Mr. Old President! Now the rules are designed so that the County Administrative Board can ban. It may be some areas where you think it's good to have some feeding to channel or avoid some damage, for example, if there is an incredible amount of game in an area. I am not exactly an expert in this area, but I am so knowledgeable that I know that there are many measures needed to tackle the problems. One of these measures has to do with forestry policy. We need to have a school policy and changes in the Forest Protection Act that allow and enable us to get brows between arable land and forestry. It is an issue that could channel the game to the brows rather than to arable land and forest land. Precisely with regard to the rules, the bill put forward in Parliament is extremely important. We have seen, since a corresponding bill was stopped a few years ago, that some of the game tribes have completely exploded. We must act against the boars. It's completely unreasonable not to do what you can. I think feeding wild game just to get more game to shoot is the wrong way to go. Now we have to reverse the natural growth of game tribes in hunting and get a more ecosystem-based hunt.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-986	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating wild nutrition in this House. What we have seen in recent years is almost an explosion of the wild boar tribe in Sweden. Today we do not know exactly how many boars there are, but we know how many are being driven. The season 2019 – 2020 is held for 146 000, which is an increase of 30 percent. However, we know that many are not included in the statistics because there is a dark figure. I know this after meeting some farmers in both Växjö and Vetlanda. A farmer in Vetlanda had shot nine, and I said: But how much meat you got! He replied that he had buried seven and kept two. So there are a lot of people who don't come. It's a giant darker number. That the wild boar tribe is so big is a huge worry. We see that the number of wildlife accidents, which many have mentioned here, is increasing every year, and for agriculture, wild boars are a big and difficult scourge. The costs, according to an old estimate from 2015, amount to 1.1 billion annually, but the figure is obviously higher. Here the government should set up a new investigation so that we get a current figure. Farmers today have great concerns about the profitability of their farms, and with wild boars that are destroying farmers, this may be the reason why they stop. The proposal that has now been put forward is a bit along the way. But more needs to be done. It must not be said: now we have done something, and now we can put this aside. No, now is the time to come up with more proposals and, above all, measures. I think there are many of us here who wonder what has happened to the powerful boar package that the government was talking about. Where are the proposals from the Swedish Food Administration? Where have they gone? Are there in the pipeline any proposals for measures that really make a difference? Will the hunters be able to sell the meat to private individuals, companies, shops and others after the Trichinella tests have been completed? It is good that Trichinella tests and also cesium tests should be free of charge. It is good that this will come this summer. We Christian Democrats have also proposed this. We know it's hard to hunt boars. Often it happens at night. Therefore, it is so important that all obstacles are removed so that the wild boar strain is reduced. I would like to say a big thank you to all our hunters who do a great deal of work and take the big responsibility. Mr. Old President! When I visit farmers on their farms around Sweden, this is undoubtedly the biggest concern for many – not in the north but in other parts of Sweden. They constantly ask us how we imagine that the wild boar tribe could be reduced. But, my friends, there are other concerns as well. One worry is that the wolf tribe is so big. It is becoming a huge concern for many farmers. But another concern is that we also have so much crown and dovhjort. It has become a threat to our food strategy that we adopted here in 2017. A meeting with farmers in the Nyköping region revealed that measures are needed to reduce the dovhjort strain. Now we need strong action and action to keep these tribes down. Besides, I just want to wish Mr. Old President a nice summer.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1001	Mr. Old President! I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 9. The world will reach the Paris Agreement, and Sweden will achieve its climate goals. We in Sweden will take our share of responsibility and reduce our emissions. There transport is an important part. We will need a broad range of measures, and policy will need to be technology neutral in its approach. Electrification is a key, but also hydrogen, biogas and biofuels have their role to play. An average car in Sweden rolls for 18 years. So not everyone will own an electric car tomorrow. That is why the reduction obligation that we are discussing here today, with the need to reduce emissions and increase the involvement of biofuels, is an important part of reducing emissions from the cars already rolling on our roads and from those cars that will continue to be sold with internal combustion engines. I would like to emphasise that this is an instrument that is widely supported by the Swedish Parliament and which the Moderates have long supported. At the same time, it is important that people have confidence in the various tools that we put in place in the name of climate and that we can take stock of the effects. The purpose of the reduction obligation should not be to make it more difficult for people to travel and travel. The aim is to reset and reduce emissions. Therefore, sufficient access to biofuels is also required for this to be possible. It also requires a long-term perspective, so that those who develop these fuels have reasonable conditions for research, development and production. We have therefore been calling for a long time for the long-term development of the reduction obligation. The Swedish Energy Agency presented a proposal as early as summer 2019. That's why this is called control station 2019. It has taken the government two slow years to present a bill. All concerned deserve better and earlier information than that. At least now we have a bill on the table, which is good. The Moderates support the proposal but point to a number of shortcomings that the government must rectify and return to the future. We see three shortcomings in particular. First of all, the government puts a great many eggs in the same card, not to say all the eggs in the same basket, and too little is done in other areas that are crucial for changing the transport. Fossil-free electricity generation is being shut down, and charging infrastructure is lagging behind. The government has done too little about electrification of our transport and now relies entirely on the reduction obligation to reach the 2030 target. I'm not the only one who says that. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Government also state that we now have to rely even more on the reduction obligation than was the case just a few years ago. The Climate Policy Council has criticised the Government's climate policy year after year as inadequate. Last time, the President-in-Office of the Council noted that too little is being done both on electrification and on the production of sufficient biofuels. The basis for the Government's climate statement produced by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that Sweden, with the government's policy, will miss the target of zero net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency points out that the government relies heavily on the reduction obligation to reduce Sweden's emissions and that there are therefore major uncertainties linked to the available sustainable volumes of biofuels. The Government's own proposal states that the requirements for interference must be substantially increased compared to the Swedish Energy Agency's original proposal when the reduction obligation was once developed. At that time, the Swedish Energy Agency started from a scenario where other measures would also be taken to restructure the transport sector, such as a stronger electrification. These measures have not been taken by the government, and so it is noted that the reduction levels must be increased from 40% to 57%. The government's lack of action and electrification has thus resulted in a situation where demands for interference must be higher than in the original proposal. It is another example of the government's failed climate policy. Secondly, a basic condition for the reduction obligation, which I was dealing with, is the availability of biofuels. Sweden has, it has to say, unique conditions to be able to produce sustainable biofuels from residues from forestry and agriculture. The Government points out in the bill that it has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to investigate additional instruments to promote biofuels plants. That's good, but it's not enough. We have long pointed out that the government's policy is counterproductive of achieving climate targets through the reduction obligation. This applies, for example, to the Government's ambitions to exempt even larger areas of forest from being managed with reduced access to residues from the forest as a result. In their budget, the Moderates have proposed green fuel support to support, inter alia, research, development, investment and demonstration projects for large-scale domestic production of sustainable biofuels. Thirdly – here is my view that there are quite a few of us in Parliament who share this criticism – the government's proposal lacks sufficient impact assessments. Several consultation bodies have pointed this out. The list of deficiencies is long and covers, among other things, the amount of biofuels required and the extent to which the market can meet the needs and how fuel suppliers can meet both the reduction requirement for interference and international fuel standards. It also includes an analysis of what the reduction obligation means for fuel costs from an international perspective, how the reduction obligation affects agriculture and forestry, and a full analysis of the impact on industry and households. Some consultation bodies also point out that the reduction levels appear to be set without sufficient knowledge and that the government is likely to underestimate the forthcoming increase in fuel prices that may result from the increased reduction levels. All of this seems to the Moderates to be well worth taking seriously. Although most of us in this House fundamentally share the view of the reduction obligation and think that it is a reasonable instrument to go forward with – and also sharpen – we need to be clear about the consequences of the effect. The Moderates, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats therefore demand in a joint reservation, which I hope will get the majority in this House, that the government at control post 2022 – that is, already next year – should return to Parliament with an assessment of the full impact of the reduction obligation and an impact assessment. The Riksdag should also be given the opportunity to re-decision on the forthcoming levels of reduction obligation. Mr. Old President! Reduction obligation is an important tool, but it must be shaped on the basis of a serious impact assessment. It must also be combined with other measures. So let it be my last message for the day: although there is a broad consensus behind the reduction obligation, we must not forget that we must also speed up the process of electrifying our transport. Only recently in a debate, a majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism stated that the government must speed up the roll-out of charging infrastructure. If this is not done, and if access to sustainable biofuels is not secured to meet the reduction obligation, climate targets are threatened. Because it's the government's responsibility.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1020	Mr. Old President! Since Göran Persson's days, fuel policy has been very much about tax – gradually higher and higher taxes for Swedish motorists. Both bourgeois and socialist governments have pursued a policy that has specifically aimed at taxing people's mobility. This proposal and previous proposals in the area of reduction obligation somehow mark a system shift, but the outcome for Swedish motorists is the same: a higher price for driving a car, and this also to limited – or even negative – environmental and climate benefits. At the same time, it will be relatively cheaper for wealthy people in the big city to drive. The Government's proposal for a gradual, substantially increased reduction obligation entails a number of serious societal problems. As shown in the bill's impact paragraphs, most suggest that the price of fuel with the increased reduction obligation will be harmful to households, businesses and the public. In addition, it is likely to have a negative impact on the state's finances. Of course, the reduction obligation also provides incentives for increased production of biofuels in Sweden. The problem is that we will not be able to increase production by a thousand per cent or more in ten years, which is perhaps a minimum to get close to self-sufficiency. The Swedish democrats are not negative to the principle of reduction. A smaller reduction obligation is definitely reasonable, perhaps mainly with a focus on the most sustainable biofuels. The problem is that we should now have a reduction obligation for flights as well. There is also talk of reduction obligations for maritime traffic, and there is talk of biofuels for power and heat production. It's gonna be hard to put this together. It also means creating incentives to use products that already have climate-friendly uses. Take, for example, the pine oil, which is used instead of fossil oil in a wide range of products in the chemical industry. What if this policy drives up the price of HVO produced by precisely pine oil? Yes, then you might stop using pine oil in the chemical industry and send it into the transport sector instead. This would generate both fewer jobs and more fossil products in the chemical industry. The net is not directly positive in any way. This understanding is unfortunately lacking today in the majority of parties in this House. It will not be possible to produce sustainable biofuels from Swedish raw materials in sufficient quantities and at a reasonable price if the reduction obligation is to follow the progression announced by the government. The reduction obligation should in principle always keep pace with the amount of sustainable domestic biofuels that can be produced in Sweden at acceptable prices. In defining what is sustainable or not sustainable, it is essential to focus on residues for which a significant market is not already in place. Mr. Old President! According to the latest statistics available, the majority of the raw material involved in the incorporation of Swedish diesel is made up of various palm oil products. Although the government has announced a future ban on the incorporation of palm oil into Swedish fuels, we believe that all types of palm oil-based substances – both environmentally certified and non-certified – need to be phased out. For example, demanding certified palm oil does not solve the enormous problems of production. On the one hand, it is very uncertain whether certified palm oil has actually been produced in a responsible manner and, on the other hand, increased demand for certified palm oil contributes to increased demand for palm oil in general – which in turn contributes to loss of biodiversity and increased greenhouse gas emissions both from land and through indirect market effects, and these effects are greater than fossil diesel emissions. This is a curious greenwashing of the most climate-damaging fuel we have today. I wonder how reasonable it is for people to look at which cake packages contain palm oil and try to choose the right cookies when Parliament is going to force people to refuel hundreds of litres of palm oil each year. On the other hand, we are in favour of using recycled fuels that have otherwise served their purposes and cannot be used for anything useful, such as various forms of plastic material. Although these materials may be fundamentally fossil, we believe it would be wise to use the resources of the land and the earth to use such materials for fuel instead of allowing them to be lost. The consequence of this is that we are in favour of amending both the legislation on reduction obligation and the regulation on reduction obligation so that it is clear that the reduction obligation is to be met by using alternative fuels and not only by using sustainable biofuels, as it says today. What is the point of opposing this? Even if it is fossil material, it is environmentally better to take advantage of what we already have. The reduction obligation must mainly be met with HVO, which is very limited. Increased demand for HVO on the market risks causing strong price increases, although the amount of domestic HVO is increasing significantly. Although we would have a fantastic development with a lot of production of HVO in Sweden, it is not that we live in a Soviet economy where we could necessarily benefit from this. If other countries also implement such an extremist reduction obligation, these fuels will, of course, be sucked into the market, with the same problems as if we had not produced very much. In this case, the government and the authorities are very limited. In order to limit the effects of an increase in the price of the raw material, there is a reduction fee. It is today at a very high level, which means that the government sees it as acceptable that the reduction obligation at a reduction of 66 per cent should be able to drive up the price of diesel by 8 SEK and 58 øre per litre, excluding VAT. In addition, an existing instrument exists with annual tax increases in fuel prices according to the Consumer Price Index. This means that the policy signals that individuals and companies are at risk of being faced with double prices of diesel at pump. This is not reasonable, which is why the Swedish Democrats want to see a sharp reduction in the reduction fee. In essence, the Swedish Democrats believe that a reduction obligation in accordance with the Government's proposal risks becoming socially harmful. We therefore prefer, first and foremost, that the bill be rejected in its entirety and, secondly, that the bill be introduced with the changes and additions shown in our accompanying motion. In this context, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. A refusal would mean that the reduction obligation would remain at the current level, with the possibility of retakes which an impact assessment could make possible. It is a good thing that we now seem to be able to make an evaluation possible. We are now seeing a slippage of the parties' positions where we in the Swedish Democrats have previously been quite alone in our scepticism towards a large-scale reduction obligation. However, if you are concerned, it is not reasonable to approve this plan at the same time by 2030. If you want to signal lower fuel prices, you cannot open up with the other hand for a significantly increased reduction obligation, which means that fuel prices are raised by several crowns. The reduction plan, at least for diesel, will have a greater negative impact on the price at the pump than the BNI price indexing would have had had it remained. As far as petrol is concerned, we should remember that the reduction obligation not only increases the price at the pump but also increases fuel consumption. In the first step it is about SEK 300 – 400, but this will of course multiply as we approach 2030.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1039	Mr. Old President, ladies and gentlemen! We are in a climate emergency, and we must do everything we can to quickly change our society so that we reduce emissions. We in the Left Party welcomed the Climate Act and the climate policy framework that this Assembly – the Riksdag – adopted a couple of years ago. Within this framework, the transport sector has its own objective of reducing emissions. Emissions should be reduced by 70% by 2030; that is an ambitious target. The government has now had a number of years to come up with concrete proposals on how to achieve that goal. These proposals can be summarised as biofuels, biofuels and more biofuels. It is not only I who say this – for example, the Climate Policy Council has criticised the government precisely for putting all the eggs in the same basket, as Jessica Rosencrantz said here earlier. It is dangerous, Mr President-in-Office, to rely so much on only one instrument, that is, biofuels. We are now debating biofuels for the road sector. There is a proposal for compulsory involvement. It will gradually increase to about 28% for petrol and 66% for diesel by 2030. A couple of weeks ago we had a similar debate, but then it was about compulsory interference and reduction obligation for aviation fuel. If we combine these two reduction obligations, we can see a sharp increase in demand for biofuels. Today, Sweden uses about 20 terawatt hours of biofuels. It is about 90 terawatt hours of fuel used in total in the automotive sector, so it is a fairly significant part of biofuels. If these two reduction obligations – in aviation and in the road sector – are realised, in 2030 we will need about 55 terawatt hours of biofuels, more than twice as much as today. This found the investigation that was the basis for the biojet, i.e. for involvement in aviation fuel. There are several other estimates pointing in the same direction. The Swedish Transport Agency estimates that approximately 70 per cent more biofuels will be needed by 2030, given the government's currently allocated policy. In addition, we will add the strong demand for biofuels that is forecast for shipping, for heavy transport and for the 21 fossil-free roadmaps that the government has called on industry to develop. Almost all of these roadmaps include increased use of bioenergy. We in the Left Party are not saying that bioenergy is wrong. There are many examples of good forms of bioenergy. Biogas, for example, is one such thing, as is actually everything where we take advantage of residues from agriculture and forestry, from our household waste and so on. But the strong demand now expected is some form of readiness from the government. That is what I miss in this bill; there is no clear impact assessment by the government, especially with regard to biodiversity. We know that this opens up major conflicts of interest. Today, Sweden imports almost all the biofuels used. Everyone agrees that this is unsustainable. It is untenable for rainforests to be destroyed for palm oil plants to be planted there and then become biofuels for the Swedish market and for soybeans to be used to make other biofuels. We need domestic production, but where is the raw material for domestic production to be taken? I wonder. More and more people are looking at the forest. Forestry in Sweden is already very intensively run. In 2019, the year before the pandemic struck, we took out more biomass – i.e. cut-down trees – from the forest than we did in any year during the whole 20th century or 2000s apart from the year when the storm Gudrun ravaged; that year was a bit worse. So we already have very intensive forestry. A couple of weeks ago, the Swedish Forest Board came up with an assessment stating that we have a negative development in Swedish forestry. It is simply becoming increasingly one-sided; there is less diversity in forestry. That is why we in the Left Party, in any case with regard to this report, are pleased that there is now a majority in favour of the government returning with a full impact assessment of what the reduction proposal means. In any case, I believe that there will be a majority, for the Left Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have jointly supported, among other things, a motion from the Left Party. We in the Left Party hope that such an impact assessment can really get to the bottom of these challenges. It may land in that we have to adjust the reduction curves so that we can use less biofuels in the future and invest more in, for example, electrification of the vehicle fleet. Earlier today, we debated the infrastructure bill. There is a majority in favour of the government speeding up the electrification work, which is going far too slowly today. We also need an overall more transport-efficient society. Many transports made today may not be made in the future because they are simply unnecessary and can be replaced by digital work. Short journeys can be replaced by walking and cycling. We need to invest an incredible amount more in public transport, so that we can replace travel with our own car. Mr. Old President! I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 9, which deals precisely with a full impact assessment of this proposal.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1057	Mr. Old President! The reduction obligation is good. This is indeed a change in the true sense of the word. At the same time, we must be able to produce fuel in a sustainable way in order to meet an increased reduction obligation. There is the Swedish forest, as I have said so many times before from this pulpit, our great competitive advantage. The Christian Democrats are clear that the forest should of course be used; that is when it does the most climate benefit. The philosophical twisting to protect more and more forests and thereby put sticks in the wheel of sustainable Swedish forestry is also a way to put a stop to the conversion. Twitter has increasingly become a swamp, but it has its sparkle of light, and I would like to quote such a gleam of light, Mr. President of the Age. There are two kinds of people. Those who want to leave the forest standing so that they can continue to release fossil CO2 and then there are those who want to replace fossil raw materials with renewables. The latter is called conversion. ..................................................... If we are serious that we want to change, it must be done in a way that actually works in reality. We cannot go on with urban desktop products without anchoring them in reality, which we unfortunately see more and more of, not least in the forest debate, and eagerly encouraged by several major Swedish national media who should know better when it comes to fact-finding. Sweden is committed to reducing CO2 emissions from transport by 70 per cent by 2030. The Christian Democrats believe that the reduction obligation should be considered as one of the most important instruments if the sector target for transport is to be achieved by 2030. At the same time, the reduction obligation and the conditions for achieving its objectives are affected by rapid changes in the world around us. The conditions are also governed by the Energy Taxation Directive's decision that energy tax should be based on volume instead of energy content and the so-called oxygenate requirement. Both of these factors are disadvantageous to low blended biofuels compared to fossil petrol and diesel. It therefore requires an even more proactive commitment from Sweden to the European Commission to promote the Swedish objectives. The reduction obligation is also challenged by a lack of access to sustainable biomass and fuels. Already today, most of today's biofuels are imported from a world market where Sweden is one of several nations that demand fuel. The lack of fuel supplies increases the need to promote the conditions for domestic production of fuels. The present proposal lacks proposals on how to promote domestic production of fuels. Therefore, the government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with proposals for measures enabling the emergence of large-scale production of biofuels. Why is it that people are so afraid of using their own products from the green industries? In this connection, I would like to support reservation No 8 in paragraph 5. Mr. Old President! The proposed reduction levels are continuously evaluated in control stations. The reduction levels after 2022 are today wrapped in dense fog with great uncertainty as to whether they can be met or not. At present, there is no credible impact assessment of how the proposed reduction levels might affect Swedish companies and households. As the government also stresses, electrification plays a crucial role in meeting the sector target. An electrified vehicle fleet has the greatest potential to reduce emissions. Mr. Old President! The Government considers that no quota should be introduced in the reduction obligation for advanced biofuels. However, the Christian Democrats, like most consultation bodies, want to emphasise the importance of the role of advanced biofuels in Swedish-produced biofuels from forest-based residues and by-products. The quota plays an important role in promoting innovation in forest fuels. The potential to significantly increase domestic biofuel production is high. As pointed out in the consultation process, Sweden is one of the few EU countries that have the opportunity to become self-sufficient in biofuels made from forest biomass. The Government presents the possibility of using renewable and other fossil-free fuels of non-biological origin to meet the reduction obligation. However, recovered coal-based fuels are dismissed as an opportunity to meet the reduction obligation. The Christian Democrats want to emphasise the objective of carbon neutrality and that electricity from nuclear power should not be discriminated against with regard to electrofuels. The Renewables Directive, which only covers renewable electric fuels where electricity comes from renewable sources, excludes electricity produced from nuclear power. The government recognises that such a narrow definition severely restricts the available volume and puts electrofuels at a disadvantage compared to biofuels. To therefore allow both renewable and fossil-free electrofuels, the Government proposes to change the definition of reduction obligation in the Reduction Obligations Act. The Christian Democrats believe that the government should also allow recycled coal-based fuels to be used to meet the reduction obligation. Recycled coal-based fuels from waste management, synthetic fuels, with low greenhouse gas emissions from a life-cycle perspective can contribute to the availability of fuels for sectors such as work machinery and agricultural machinery and should therefore be considered as complying with the reduction obligation. Mr. Old President! The increased reduction levels of the reduction obligation lead to reduced greenhouse gas emissions from the use of petrol and diesel. It is considered to contribute to the achievement of the sectoral target for domestic transport. However, the reform also provides significant cost increases for households, businesses and other fuel buyers through higher fuel prices. How much price increase can be expected to be, the government has much to respond to. Based on a number of assumptions, the Government aims to estimate increases in diesel prices to a maximum of SEK 6.75, including VAT, and SEK 3.60, including VAT, for petrol by 2030. However, other players consider price increases to be significantly greater and the government here underestimates the development of costs. The increase in fuel costs threatens to significantly weaken the competitive environment for Swedish industry. The higher pump price of diesel hits companies particularly hard. The industry suffers directly from cost increases for Swedish haulage companies that foreign hauliers compensate for by refuelling before entering the country. In the long run, all transport costs are affected by subsequent increases in goods and products. The increased price of diesel also affects the conditions for producing biofuels when, for example, the process of taking out sprouts in the forest industry becomes more expensive based on its fuel cost. Agriculture, which is in a competitive position vis-à-vis the rest of the world, suffers from a deterioration in diesel prices. Companies with a high export share, such as the forest industry, are at risk of having a significantly reduced competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. As the government also acknowledges, the proposed reduction levels are significantly higher than required by the recast Renewables Directive and higher than can be expected in an ambition increase of the requirements of the Directive. As the government acknowledges, the diesel price in Sweden can be assumed to be significantly higher than in competing countries. There is a great risk that the reduction obligation, as it is now intended, will lead production as a result of weak Swedish competitiveness to move abroad to countries where the production process leads to higher emissions. The consequence of this will be a carbon leakage that counteracts the very purpose of the reduction obligation, reduced emissions. A number of consultation bodies also highlight the consequences for rural households in particular and for households that need the car to reach their workplaces. Mobility and accessibility are widely affected by increased fuel prices in a way that impairs quality of life and makes the conditions for living and operating throughout the country worse. The high import demand for fuel materials also raises concerns about national energy security in view of the high external dependence resulting from the rising demand imposed by the reduction levels. The Christian Democrats believe that the introduction of the reduction levels following control station 2022 must be adapted to an impact assessment that is capable of highlighting the ways in which the reduction obligation can be implemented without deteriorating competitive conditions for Swedish companies. An impact assessment should also include proposals on how Swedish households can be compensated for the reduced mobility caused by increased fuel prices. With this I would like to thank myself, Mr President-in-Office, and, at the same time, to wish the old president, the chamber clerk, my co-debaters and committee colleagues a really nice summer.
i-FW4vSJinqf3HGCb7mefchQ	Mr. Old President! The first experiment with a petrol engine in an automobile was carried out in 1865, and in the early 1890s a factory-like production of cars took place. The first phase of the industrial revolution was driven by the steam engine. The second phase was driven by an internal combustion engine and an electric motor. The rest, Mr. Old President, as we say, is history. The internal combustion engine has completely transformed the transport system for road and air transport. This has guided social development, urban planning, lifestyles and interpersonal exchange. Mr. Old President! Tonight, we are debating reduction obligations here in Parliament's Chamber. Reduction obligations are political and economic instruments to increase the involvement of biofuels in petrol and diesel fuels. Biofuels are vehicle fuels produced from renewable biomass. The actual background to the reduction obligation can be expressed as simply as seriously: We have released too much carbon dioxide from the combustion of petroleum in a short time, which leads to the warming of the earth through a so-called greenhouse effect. With temperature rises, we will face major challenges with extreme weather, melting glaciers and floods. I am a tech optimist, and we live in an engineering country with fine natural resources. By reducing and phasing out oil and fossil components, we can stem these climate changes. Sweden will take the lead in the climate transition and become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is important that we reduce emissions from transport, speed up the production of renewable fuels in Sweden and make it easy for people to refuel environmentally friendly in the cars that are already rolling today. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. At the same time, we Social Democrats believe in a fair climate change where society takes the lead and no one is left out. The reduction obligation is one of the government's most important instruments for reducing carbon dioxide emissions and achieving Sweden's climate targets. The stage target for domestic transport means that emissions, in addition to domestic flights, should have decreased by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. In order to promote the use of biofuels, three years ago the government introduced a reduction obligation for petrol and diesel, requiring all fuel suppliers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from petrol and diesel through the incorporation of biofuels each year. Reduction levels have been established since 2018. The government is now proposing to tighten the reduction obligation and will decide on gradually increasing reduction levels in the reduction obligation until 2030. The focus is linear with indicative levels for 2030 of 28 percent for petrol and 66 percent for diesel, with a control station 2022. New reduction levels are expected to come into force with legislative changes already on 1 August this year. The impact on fuel prices due to the increased reduction levels is uncertain. These are influenced by a number of factors such as the general economy, the competitive situation, crude oil prices, exchange rates, tax levels and car efficiency over time. Looking back in time, we also see that petrol prices have varied very strongly. Many are dependent on cars and cannot afford to suddenly go and buy an electric car. At the same time, many of us depend on being able to transport by car and will continue to do so even further. To dampen the effect, the indexation of the energy and carbon dioxide tax is paused until 2022, when the government will implement a control station. At the control station, the government will evaluate the levels and are prepared to adjust them if it is judged necessary. The reduction obligation will give a clear signal of stable and increasing demand for biofuels that will enable industry to invest in production capacity. We Social Democrats believe that domestic production of renewable fuels should be promoted. Biofuels are sold on a world market. Today, a large part of what is used in Sweden is imported. Sweden is well placed to increase its domestic production of low-climate biofuels. Thus, the transition to biofuels will eventually create new Swedish jobs. Mr. Old President! For example, we are talking about residues from the forest industry and the paper and pulp industry: twigs, lignin, sawdust, branches, tops and hydrogenated vegetable oil from pine oil. Here we can also mention that we get biogas from manure, sewage sludge, food waste and some waste from the food industry and trade. In parallel with the reduction obligation, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to extend its efforts in this year and next year to promote sustainable biofuels for aviation while at the same time extending its mandate to all sustainable and renewable fuels for aviation. It can also be mentioned in this context that the initiative has also been extended to include research into and development of electric aviation and hydrogen. In addition, in January this year, the Government gave a mandate to develop proposals for an overall strategy for hydrogen and electrofuels in the Swedish energy system. Mr. Old President! Bioenergy in Sweden today represents as much as nuclear power and hydropower together. The Government has given a mandate to examine the need for additional instruments to promote the production of biofuels using new technologies. It is hoped that the proposal will also have a positive impact on the Swedish level of self-sufficiency in fuel and thus also contribute to increased security of supply even during crises. In order to support the transition, the Social Democratic-led government has also decided on the long-term investment in Industriklivet. In the budget proposal for this year, we here in Parliament set an additional SEK 150 million for Industrikliv. The efforts are further broadened and allow support for other industrial projects, including the production of biofuels. The budget proposal also includes the appropriation Environmental improvement measures in agriculture, which may be used, among other things, to support the production of biogas and which here is increased by SEK 200 million. The Government also proposed an investment of SEK 200 million for this year and SEK 150 million for next year to accelerate the transition to a resource efficient and circular economy through the modernisation of existing test beds for biorefineries. Investments in biogas production and distribution are taking place, and the promotion of biofuels for aviation is increasing. An active climate policy is also a policy for the jobs of the future. By taking the lead, we strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. It creates jobs and export revenue. We will make it profitable for companies to act environmentally friendlyly. It should be easier for people to take a climate responsibility in their own everyday lives. About the first phase of the industrial revolution was about steam and the second phase about internal combustion engines, let future phases be about climate-smart jobs and fossil-free processes! Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in its entirety and reject all reservations.
i-5ncUCbyoMAxBRR9hpxePGy	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Markus Selin, for this fire speech! I would like to return to the fact that we fully agree that the reduction obligation is a very important tool for reducing emissions from the transport sector. That is precisely why it is important that we treat this tool carefully. Then I'm back on the issue of production. The government says that it wants cars that drive on biofuels, but one of two government parties says that we must double the amount of forest that we are protecting today, that is, increase the amount of forest that we must not use. The Minister for the Environment says that Swedish forestry is unsustainable. Then my supplementary question is: where does the government want to take these biofuels? I don't share the Green Party's picture. I believe that Swedish forestry is sustainable and that there is enormous potential to increase production through residual products from forests, for example. But how does government policy in this area go together? They want to increase the demands for interference and rightly have tougher sustainability requirements for the products we import, but at the same time one of two government parties says no to increased forestry and no to use the forest in the transition. The result? Such a duty in terms of interference without access to the required biofuels will simply mean that we are driving prices up so that eventually people cannot afford to drive or that we are continuing to import products that are not as sustainable. How does government policy in this area go together? And what does Markus Selin mean – does he agree with Per Bolund that Swedish forestry is unsustainable, or is he of a different opinion?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1105	Mr. Old President! I felt that there were quite a few questions for the Green Party. I'll let the Moderates make a mess of the Green Party. Let me repeat, instead of having a debate on forestry policy here this evening, that we have residues from the forest industry, residues from the paper industry, residues from the pulp industry – Swedish, honest basic industry – twigs, lignin, sawdust, branches, peaks and hydrogenated vegetable oil from pine oil, and then we will just, as a small canapé, also mention everything we get biogas from, such as sewage sludge, manure, food waste and much from the food industry and trade. Mr. Old President! I can take this opportunity, when I have a few seconds left, to question the history of the Moderates. I understood in the main speech of the Moderates here that nothing is being done. Then I wonder if Jessica Rosencrantz reads the business press, which says that there is now a historic and transformation of the whole of Sweden. SEK 1 000 billion is invested in northern Sweden. It is about batteries and steel without coal, and we also get good and fresh Swedish biofuels. I'm looking forward to that. I'll stay there.
i-PPq4sso9paw1vA7FwMXG1J	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Markus Selin! I can see that the Moderates spend far more than the government on the Industrial Klivet. I can see that the companies in the north say that they have a problem, and that is electricity. There too, the government is guilty of the answer. Otherwise, I really support the development that is taking place in northern Sweden and throughout Sweden. But I didn't get any answers to my questions at all. Markus Selin told me to ask the Green Party the questions. But I put the questions to the government, and there are two parties in the government, and they should have a common line in this. Then my question will be when the government puts a tool like this on Parliament's table: How should we achieve the goals set? Is it through increased forestry? And is Markus Selin of the view that Swedish forestry is sustainable or not? That is, of course, what this boils down to when we now also put tougher sustainability requirements, rightly, on the products that we import. Are we going to use more forest, and how are we going to get these biofuels? Finally, let me add the question, and let us see if I can get an answer to it, that there seems to be a majority in parliament that wants the government to come back next year to give Parliament a new opportunity to take decisions based on a more solid impact assessment than has been presented now. Is the government prepared to return to Parliament next year for such a decision?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1113	Mr. Old President! I mentioned the paper industry, the forest industry, the pulp industry, twigs, lignin, sawdust, branches, peaks and hydrogenated vegetable oil from pine oil – we do not need to have a forest policy debate here tonight, Mr President-in-Office. As far as the impact assessment is concerned, I cannot help but note that the Moderates now think that it should have been said more and that it should have been said more quickly and more clearly. I would like to recall that the Moderates quite recently wanted us to have gone even faster with the whole reduction obligation report and the whole of this work. I'm not getting this analysis or the balance path right. As far as the impact assessments in question are concerned – there is little inflation in impact assessments, I think when I listen to the Moderates – things are simply going on, Mr President-in-Office, many analyses right now regarding price, production, demand and conversion. Mr. Old President! When we listen to the Moderates here tonight, when we talk about reduction obligations, bets and alleged even greater bets than we Social Democrats do, we have a fact. Two and a half years ago we received a budget motion from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which was approved by the Swedish Democrats and was a macabre slaughter of Swedish climate and environmental policy.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1117	Mr. Old President! What Swedish motorists are now wondering is what this will cost. Markus Selin and the Social Democrats here today explain why the most radical biofuels policy in the world should be established. Selin does not claim to know what this will cost Sweden's motorists, and I can understand that, because this has not been investigated. They have not tried to investigate this, but are simply starting with a very radical policy in this area. What can be asked is: What is it reasonable that it should cost Sweden's motorists? How much more expensive will it be to drive a car in Sweden of the Social Democrats? What's fair? How many crowns will it be more expensive? We can already see that the reduction obligation has pushed up the price. It's more expensive to drive today. It is much more expensive to refuel diesel than it would have been if the reduction obligation had not been implemented. But how much is it going to cost? How much more should you pay to drive a car in Sweden of the Social Democrats?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1121	Mr. Old President! The simple answer is that if we could predict the world market price of oil, we would all in here have other things to do than stand here and discuss tonight. Gas and diesel prices have fluctuated tremendously over the years. They have gone up and down, and they reflect the economic situation, demand, production, taxes, efficiency in different types of internal combustion engines and so on. I will answer the Swedish Democrats' question, which is a very good question, about how much it will cost for a Social Democratic motto that is important to emphasise is that our climate change should be fair and that everyone should be able to participate in it. That was the answer to the question. The counter-question to the Swedish Democrats then becomes, when you look at the top ten countries when it comes to oil production: What is the interest of the Swedish Democrats to be dependent on Saudi Arabia, Russia, China and Iran? I wonder, Mr. Old President. What interest do the Swedish democrats have in being completely dependent and impair our ability to handle the degree of self-sufficiency and the possibility of being able to drive on with our internal combustion engines in the event of a crisis?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1124	Mr. Old President! The Social Democrats and Markus Selin cannot answer what is reasonable to pay for the reduction obligation. But we should actually be able to do that, because a reduction fee has been set. Today it is about $1 (U.S.) for gasoline. There is so much consumers of petrol are expected to pay extra, and for diesel it is 4 crowns. If we count forward for a few years, this reduction fee will be twice as high. That's what people are supposed to pay. That is what the Social Democrats and the government think is reasonable. They think it is reasonable that the diesel today should be able to cost SEK 4 more than without this particular instrument, and they think it is reasonable that in a few years' time the diesel should be able to cost SEK 13 to 14 more, with VAT added. So that is the answer to the question. That's what makes sense. You already want to set that reduction fee here today. That's the price you think is reasonable to pay. If it becomes too expensive the reduction fee comes in, and then it becomes 100 percent fossil instead. But then it costs more. At least there's a limit. But why is the limitation at this level? Why not lower the reduction fee? And why should people be forced to refuel hundreds of gallons of palm oil each year? We know that in the Swedish statistics it looks good, but if we want to reduce emissions in the world, this is an idiotic policy. This is also an idiotic policy if you want others to follow. If the rest of the world were to implement this biofuels policy, there would be a complete climate disaster. To pursue this policy in the rest of the world would not be sustainable, and it will not be sustainable in Sweden either.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1128	Mr. Old President! I take note of a handful of questions. I'll try to touch most of them. First of all, I note that the Swedish Democrats cannot answer why Sweden should be directly dependent on Saudi Arabia, Russia, China and Iran. Why do the Swedish Democrats not want us to be self-sufficient in the event of a crisis? The Swedish Democrats did not respond to that. I also noted the word palm oil. We do not produce palm oil in Sweden. We Social Democrats want to pursue a climate policy that is fair and that everyone should be involved in. We have no palm oil and no natural forest here. We want more factories, more green jobs and a fair transition. Demand and supply – The Swedish Democrats can as little as any other forecast the oil price in one or five years' time. But we Social Democrats can ensure that it comes to more factories and stimulate a customer demand to run with smart, reduction-required fuel. Mr. Old President! I can, as the Moderates pointed out in relation to some kind of high tailings when it comes to climate and environmental policy, recall the napkin sketch we all tasted two and a half years ago. When we had to release a right-wing conservative budget motion, it was a clear slaughter of Sweden's climate and environmental policy. Therefore, it becomes a little poor when the Swedish Democrats will try to forecast the future oil price. What the Swedish democrats are really saying here is that they want us to continue to depend on dirty fossil oil from countries that, to say the least, are not stable suppliers, if I may say so.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1133	Mr. Old President! Markus Selin said earlier that we should not have a debate on forestry policy here. It's a little talking. Markus Selin wants to build new factories, he wants to start green jobs and he wants to reduce emissions – great! But he doesn't want to talk about the other side, about how it should be done. I was quite clear in my speech. I said that if both reduction obligations are fully implemented, for aviation and for the road sector, we will have increased demand for biofuels. We need 55 terawatt hours of biofuels. Today we use 20 terawatt hours. In addition, almost everything to the 20 terawatt hours is imported. And Markus Selin wants us to produce everything ourselves. Then 55 domestic terawatt hours will be produced here in Sweden by 2030. The Finnish Transport Agency is talking about an increased demand of 70 percent. Sweco came a couple of years ago with a report where they talked about an increased demand for biofuels of 86 percent. We all know that there will be extremely high demand. Markus Selin says that it is branches and peaks, that it is lignin and that it is sawdust and residues from the forest industry and agriculture. That's great. But it happens that very much of the residues are already used for other purposes. I think we can get some more out, and I think we can have domestic production of sustainable biofuels, but not to the extent that Markus Selin predicts. I therefore have two specific questions: what is Markus Selin, the Social Democrats' and the Government's assessment of how much demand for biofuels will be as a result of the reduction obligation? And, once again, where is the raw material for the production of these biofuels to be taken?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1138	Mr. Old President! Sweden is in a gold seat, if we are to compare with other countries in the world in general and in the EU in particular. The third largest country in the EU is Sweden. If it is something we have in Sweden, it is knowledge, plenty of natural resources and so far political will. We Social Democrats drive both production capacity and stimulate demand. We want to drive a climate change transition that is fair and that everyone can participate in. When it comes to the question by the Left Party and Jens Holm about where the input material will come from, we should be able to get a long way along the road, given that we are such a large and sparsely populated country. There are several countries in our environment that have much bigger problems.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1141	Mr. Old President! Markus Selin did not really answer my question. My first question was: what will be the demand for biofuels as a result of these preferably two reduction obligations, but if it becomes too complicated, at least the reduction obligation for the road sector? This is where the government must have an answer. But the government doesn't have an answer. I don't see it in the bill. I do not see it in the report. This is an extremely important issue. I mentioned 55 terawatt hours by 2030, compared to 20 terawatt hours today, when most of them are imported. If you don't know those quantities, it falls a little flat to talk big, wide and wide about these industries, these green jobs and the great domestic production. It's going to have a back end. That's what Markus Selin says between the lines; the Swedish forest will be cut down, to become biofuels. I would like to remind you that we already have very intensive forestry. In addition to asking Markus Selin to respond to the demand as a result of the reduction obligation, I would like to know from Markus Selin whether more trees will be cut down in Sweden, as a result of the reduction obligation.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1144	Mr. Old President! The answers to Left Party and Member Jens Holm's questions are: Yes, it will be cut down forest. And yes, we will come up with new technologies. Now we may not even know what kind of technology. We Social Democrats choose to invest money in it. Perhaps even frying fat will be used to a much greater extent. Who knows? Many streams small– I have a little respect for the situation and the climate threat we face. The combined research, which can and understands the question, probably all agree that there is no alexander on this issue. We Social Democrats want to see more green jobs. It's a simple answer to Jens Holm. We want more vehicles to be driven with, preferably domestically produced, biofuels or fuel that is mandatory for reduction. But we have new technology, as an engineering country, knowledge and the ability to drive that transition.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1148	Mr. Old President! We are debating this evening a rather ambitious strengthening of the reduction obligation for the involvement of biofuels. This makes me a little extra happy as a center party, because it is a crucial question for us to be able to switch Swedish society to lower emissions, in the long term also to zero emissions. It is important for us to be able to achieve the ambitious, but perhaps not ambitious enough, targets we have set ourselves to reduce emissions from the transport sector. But, Mr President of the Age, it is also important for us to achieve the ambition that I hope everyone in this House has: Sweden should not only be a society in which we combine growth with low emissions, but we will actually also see increased Swedish growth when we scale up the Swedish bioeconomy, when we produce more in Sweden and create green jobs that come from that production. Mr. Old President! This makes me, as an old youth federation, a little happy. I know that what makes it click most in people is when you try to talk about how the transformation will benefit more people in Swedish society. Is there anything that makes everything from farmers to climate-ambitious stockholmers and transport students in high schools in Mjölby to grasp the importance of a transformation that everyone benefits from, it is when you talk about how we replace fossil oil from Saudi Arabia, Russia or even Norway with biofuels from Swedish agriculture and forestry. This is something that most people grasp. It is good not only for the climate but also for Swedish society. Mr. Old President! Having said that, this is an ambitious objective. It is also important that it should be ambitious. We are currently at a stage where we have small and large companies around Sweden who are just thinking about whether they should dare to invest in this production. Should they dare to take investment decisions that are perhaps one of the biggest ones they make this decade and that are not rarely in the billions class, there needs to be a clear and clear goal from the political side that we should change the transports in Sweden and that we should do so on the basis of Swedish biofuels, among other things. Otherwise, Mr. Old President, there is a risk that this will not happen or that it will happen elsewhere than in Sweden. I do not think I need to remind my colleagues in this House of what happens when we shake the case or what our objective is. If there is uncertainty as to whether we should expand fuel production in Sweden, we create uncertainty that more than anything else prevents such investments. Mr. Old President! It goes without saying that only a more ambitious reduction obligation will not solve the transformation of the transport sector. Of course, this will have to be combined with other things. It needs to go hand in hand with an ambitious bioeconomy strategy that addresses all aspects of how we increase the production of Swedish biofuels and other resources that come from the Swedish bioeconomy, such as agriculture and forestry. It needs to go hand in hand with secure ownership and good conditions for agriculture and forestry. These are things that have been included in the January Agreement and the processes that have followed the January Agreement. Now that a majority in this House has convicted the current government, I would like to remind you of the importance of ensuring that, no matter what government we have in three months' time, after the next elections and in the subsequent parliamentary term, all these elements are included. Mr. Old President! This must go hand in hand with a shift in the transport sector as a whole, including increased transport efficiency. It is an efficiency that is currently extremely low in Sweden, whether we are talking about the transport efficiency of people and goods or about transport in urban or rural areas. It needs to go hand in hand with a shift that means an increased electrification of both the road and the rail networks. It needs to go hand in hand with us looking at how we strengthen railways and maritime traffic. This is a whole, but in this whole is an ambitious reduction obligation of paramount importance. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to mention something that has been raised here before, namely the concern that the reduction obligation may have a negative impact on the competitiveness of Swedish companies and the rural population of our country. It is a concern that should be taken very seriously, but I also hope that those who have expressed this concern in this House will take with them the concerns and willingness to find solutions to the other issues that affect both the competitiveness of companies and mobility in Swedish rural areas. It happens to be the case, Mr President-in-Office, that those of us who live in rural areas in this country pay more in taxes and charges when we own and drive cars than the total cost of society. That's not how it's done in big cities. This is a fact at present. In addition, there are purely distortive instruments, such as the travel allowance, which primarily benefits residents in metropolitan areas and not those that are thought to benefit, namely the rural population, which will be able to put together the puzzle of life and the private economy. The concerns that have been highlighted in this House today, I hope that you will also take on board these issues. With this, Mr President-in-Office, and with the pride I feel that we will have a more ambitious reduction obligation, I will conclude my speech.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1161	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 23 Reduction obligation for petrol and diesel. Reduction obligation means that petrol and diesel are mixed with biofuels or electrofuels in order to reduce CO2 emissions and achieve climate targets. Mr. Old President! The use of fossil fuels must stop. The transport sector, industry, agriculture and others must find ways to stop using fossil fuels. In the transport sector there are solutions that are often both profitable for the individual and can be rolled out on a large scale. We now see that this is happening. Especially on the passenger car side, electrification has started to take off seriously. During the spring, a sales increase of 50 percent for rechargeable cars has been achieved in one month. We must now focus on developing charging infrastructure in order not to slow down the climate change. Electrification is needed because biofuels must, as far as possible, be used primarily for those modes of transport that are more difficult to switch, such as aviation and maritime transport. The Liberals have initiated the Electrification Commission, which will present an action plan for electrification of heavy transport in the autumn, proposing investment in charging infrastructure to facilitate the transition to heavy electric vehicles. At the same time, a nationwide network of charging poles is needed at homes and parking lots so that individuals dare to invest in a rechargeable car. But despite the positive development in electrification, more is needed. Mr. Old President! During a transitional period, liquid propellant vehicles will remain in place. A car is used on average under 18 years of age. This means that the fossil-powered vehicles we are selling today will remain on the roads in 2040. Today, there are 5 million passenger cars mainly powered by fossil fuels. With a strong development of rechargeable cars, 30 percent of our vehicles can be rechargeable cars by 2030, and then the proportion increases at an increasingly rapid rate. However, according to the forecast, 70% of cars in 2030 are powered by liquid fuels, and what do we do with them? The reduction obligation is therefore an effective way of reducing emissions from the remaining fossil-powered cars. In the short term, most of the light road transport will be electrified, directly via batteries or indirectly via hydrogen. It will release fossil-free fuels for other purposes where there are currently no reasonable alternatives. This applies to aviation, maritime transport and as a raw material for industry. The Liberals support the committee's proposal for a gradual increase in the inclusion of fossil-free fuels in petrol to 28% and diesel to 66% by 2030. At the same time, we have pushed the issue of additional control stations. We have high targets for interference, and it is important that the production of fossil-free fuels can increase at a sufficiently rapid rate to ensure that the supply is so good that fossil-free fuels can be avoided causing a dramatic increase in the price of the pumps. Control stations provide an opportunity to change the targets if it turns out that this cannot be done in a cost-effective or climate-efficient way. It is also positive that the possibility of meeting the reduction obligation with own or purchased excess emission reductions is increased and that surpluses can to some extent be saved for subsequent years. Mr. Old President! The need for biomass is far greater than can be sustainably extracted. The biomass must therefore be used wisely. The reduction obligation should be seen as a transitional solution for road transport in particular. Anything that can be electrified. Nevertheless, it may prove difficult to obtain sufficient amounts of biofuels to ensure the availability of fuel when the reduction ramps up to 2030. It has therefore been important for us liberals that fossil-free electrofuels, which we can produce in unlimited quantities, can also be used to meet the reduction obligation. It has also been important for us that the bill states precisely a fossil-free 中 electrofuels. Swedish emission-free electricity must be able to be used to produce electrofuels. The current legislative proposal will lead to significant emission reductions when introduced on 1 August 2021. Today we are taking a big step towards Sweden having net negative emissions beyond 2045. We do so with a legislative proposal that puts the climate first in a technologically neutral way without discrimination between the types of energy. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1172	Mr. Old President! We are now debating another important step towards fossil freedom in the transport sector, which the Green Party has been involved in pushing through in the government. With the tightening of the reduction obligation, we will speed up the phasing-out of fossil fuels in the transport sector. In fact, the 70% reduction target for domestic transport by 2030 is now within reach. We are in a very serious climate situation. Carbon dioxide emissions must be reduced as soon as possible if we are to meet the Paris Agreement's objectives of keeping the temperature increase well below two degrees, preferably for one and a half degrees. Through the Climate Act passed by the Green Party, the Swedish Parliament has set itself the goal that Sweden should not have net emissions by 2045 and that on the way there we will reduce emissions from the transport sector by 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. This is possible if we tighten the reduction obligation. However, the former objective actually means that virtually all sectors must have reached zero emissions by then. This applies, in particular, to the transport sector. In order to reach a fossil-free transport sector based on 100% renewable energy, we need to work with three areas at the same time. It is about transport efficiency, electrification and sustainable and fossil-free fuels. Mr. Old President! As far as transport efficiency is concerned, it is both a matter of shaping our societies in a way that reduces the need for transport as well as moving transport to more energy-efficient modes of transport such as rail and maritime transport. When it comes to electrification, we see a rapid development forward. In the long term, large parts of the transport sector will be electrified. This process is going considerably faster than many of us had estimated a few years ago. At the same time, we know that a large proportion of existing vehicles that are added to the fleet today are still dependent on liquid fuels. A car lives on average for 17 years in Sweden. It is therefore important that we work on the phasing out of fossil fuels. The Green Party has been the driving force behind the introduction of the reduction obligation, which imposes an obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from low-carbon fuels in a life cycle perspective per unit of energy through the incorporation of renewable or fossil-free fuels. The Green Party is also very pleased that we have now come to the point where we can tighten the reduction obligation and pave the way for how we can get to the target of minus 70% CO2 emissions by 2030 using this tool. The sharpening means that the incorporation of renewable or fossil-free fuels will increase gradually until 2030, when the blend will be 28 and 66 percent respectively for petrol and diesel. The reason why the petrol quota is slightly lower than that for diesel is that there are technical constraints that may cause problems with the excessive incorporation of ethanol into petrol. As quotas then go up, emission reductions will have to be taken out in the form of the incorporation of other types of biobenzi, produced for example synthetically or by electrofuels. Diesel does not really have the same challenge, because HVO is almost identical to ordinary diesel and can therefore be mixed in to a very large extent, really big. Mr. Old President! In the future, it is becoming increasingly important to find new solutions for liquid fuels. An important step we are now taking is to open up for electrofuels in the reduction obligation. This is also important for the Green Party. In this way, we can produce even more sustainable fuels and at the same time save on the biofuels that are needed in other sectors as well. The changes we are now making are opening up for Sweden to finally introduce E10 as standard for Swedish petrol. It is a big step forward that means a rapid reduction in emissions. Mr. Old President! When using biofuels, it is important to ensure that biofuels are produced in a sustainable way. The Government has therefore proposed that the reduction obligation from 1 August 2022 should not be met with biofuels from raw materials with a high risk of indirect land use change if a significant extension of the production area to land with large carbon stocks can be observed. This basically means that palm oil is excluded. Biofuels based on palm oil shall not be used to comply with the reduction requirement unless the biofuel is certified in accordance with the criteria set out in the Delegated Regulation. PFAD is also included in the values given for palm oil. The Green Party believes that there is a need for a strategy for the production of sustainable biofuels and a definition of what is sustainable. We believe that this should, for example, mean that Sweden's coal supply in soil and vegetation will increase every year, that biodiversity must be preserved and strengthened and that forestry needs to be more sustainable. The reduction obligation creates good conditions with a stable demand for biofuels, which benefits production conditions. We will see more investments in production facilities in the future, which has also benefited, for example, from instruments such as the Industrial Sector. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to analyse the need for additional instruments to promote biofuels with technologies that are beyond the demonstration level, i.e. technologies that we can actually implement. Mr. Old President! The reduction obligation helps us achieve our climate goals. Biofuels are not a solution that we are looking at in the long term, especially for the passenger car sector. However, electrification and transport efficiency take time, and therefore biofuels are needed during a transitional period in that sector as well. In the long term, however, biofuels will be focused on those sectors that are most difficult to switch to, for example, aviation and maritime transport. In this way, we are gradually creating the transition that is absolutely necessary to achieve our climate and environmental objectives and to achieve the goals of both reducing emissions by 70% by 2030 and reaching net zero emissions by 2045. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-JKwCdMgcBcDEmFNQsvnzUo	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Emma Berginger, for your speech. I had an exchange of views with Markus Selin here earlier. It was quite obvious that you get different answers depending on who you ask among the government parties. I am therefore going to address the Green Party directly. The question was about the fact that the government wants us to drive on more biofuels. At the same time, you have been very clear in the Green Party that you do not want to see us increase the amount of forest that is cultivated. We have heard statements from Per Bolund that Swedish forestry is unsustainable. The other day we were able to read statements in the media from the Green Party's Rebecka Le Moine, who is a spokesperson for biodiversity. She says that biofuels are the wrong way to go. Emma Berginger is here to praise the reduction obligation. At the same time, the party has a policy of reducing forestry. Finally, my questions will be: What is the opinion of the Green Party? Is Swedish forestry sustainable? Can we increase Swedish forestry as part of the success of the transformation of the transport sector?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1190	Mr. Old President! We cannot set the various environmental objectives against each other. We need to adjust so that we reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and achieve our climate targets. However, we also need to take into account other environmental objectives, such as the issue of biodiversity. It is my absolute conviction and that of the Green Party that it is possible and that it goes hand in hand. One of them has an impact on the other. Therefore, we would like to see more forest protection in Sweden. We also want to see a change in the forestry that is still being carried out so that it becomes more sustainable. At the same time, we are firmly convinced that forestry will continue to be carried out in the future. Forest raw materials will be extracted, and it will be possible to produce biofuels in a sustainable way in Sweden. We think it is important for us to increase domestic production and ensure that we move towards an increased level of self-sufficiency of biofuels. Nor do we think it is sustainable that we have as large an import of biofuels as we have today from sources that are perhaps uncertain and questionable from a sustainability perspective. Here, Sweden must be able to be a forerunner that shows that it is possible to produce sustainable and renewable fuels and other biomaterials. At the same time, we must take a huge responsibility to ensure that the forestry that we conduct is carried out sustainably, but also that we dispose of and protect forests to a greater extent than we do today. We believe it is possible to do both of these things at the same time. As I said, the two cases cannot be set against each other. We must be able to achieve our climate goals. We know that changing the climate is an enormous threat to society as a whole, but also to nature and the environment. At the same time, we must safeguard biodiversity. There we know that Swedish forestry today has problems that need to be addressed.
i-LqqxKoxP7GjEoJDCdj67zs	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Emma Berginger! No, we shouldn't set goals against each other. At the same time, it must be recognised when there are target conflicts. One such conflict is to say that we should drive more on biofuels but that we should use less forest. Then my question remains. Does the Green Party mean that we should increase the withdrawal from the Swedish forest? Is it reasonable for us to increase forestry? It's a pretty simple question. Many figures have been mentioned in the debate. Jens Holm spoke earlier about 55 terawatt hours. That's interesting. Is it the environmental party's view that we can produce that amount of biofuels in Sweden? Is there, according to the Green Party, a limit on how much fuel prices may increase through the reduction obligation, or is it subordinate? It is about Emma Berginger talking about the fact that we cannot use the forest to any extent. Can we increase forestry? Is there a limit to how much fuel prices may increase as a result of the reduction obligation?
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1202	Mr. Old President! It is important to use forest raw material with reason and that we use it where it gives the best effect and does the most good. We will have a great demand for forest products both in Sweden and in the world in the future when we replace everything that originates from the fossil industry. At the same time, it is very important that we do what is necessary to achieve sustainable forest production. We need to protect more forest. But we also need to change the production methods that we have. It is quite possible, in my opinion and the Green Party, to carry out sustainable forestry and at the same time extract raw materials from the forest. As far as fuel prices are concerned, we know that the government has paused the indexation of fuel tax. It is also necessary to evaluate the conditions at the control station in 2022. I note that there is definitely a possibility that fuel prices will increase as demand for bio-raw materials rises. It's a common microeconomic theory. At the same time, we know that we are facing a major shift in the system in the transport sector. We know that we are moving towards increased electrification. It is a process that goes considerably faster than we thought a few years ago. We know that buying an electric car is becoming cheaper and that more and more electric cars are also coming out on the secondary market, which is perhaps more accessible to the ordinary consumer. That is why I think we will see a rather rapid change in private cars. This will enable both those with a high income and those with a lower income to contribute to climate change.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1210	Mr. Old President! We are now moving from energy to education. It's almost a little summer feeling when you get out in the heat, but still not. It's kind of mixed feelings right now. Maybe it's a little bit of anticipation, but most of the time it's waiting. We now come to college questions. It's a very important subject. This is seen not least by the fact that there are over 180 motions on the matter. When I have listened to the debate here this evening, there has been a lot of talk about technology development. The university plays a major role here. This is where we shape the scientists of the future. It is very important that the university works. Who knows if it will be electricity or perhaps something even more sustainable in the future. Everything starts with the university so that you can get on with the research. Within the Moderates we see that there are many things that work well in the higher education world, but there are also some things we need to improve. Of course, we think that all our reservations are good. But I would like to endorse reservation number 13 on the sizing of the university. Mr. Old President! The Moderates believe that a variety of educations is very important within the university. There are many different needs and wishes from both the individual and from society and the business community. We are aware of the autonomy of higher education institutions. But it is also important to follow the development and needs of society. We also see that it is important that there are different types of education in terms of length, content and opportunity to study in combination with work. This, of course, places different and high demands on training providers. High quality and competitiveness are our cornerstones. When we wrote the motion on this, we stressed that it is very important that we can also provide training at a distance. Nowadays, it is a little more the rule than the exception that it is done remotely. Maybe that's an unnecessary sentence. A great deal has happened in a very short time. Nowadays you can do a lot of things remotely. But there are also some training courses that need to be given and are best done physically on site. When we talk about shorter education, it is also important that the higher education institutions receive the compensation they should receive. It does not always work optimally at the moment. The Moderates also want to see increased opportunities to carry out commissioned education. Rapid transition to excellence is needed, and new research findings come all the time. We have just talked about electrification here, and Volvo Cars says that there will be a need for at least 20 000 people to be trained in electrification. Twenty thousand are very many! This places very high demands on both flexibility, development and expansion for higher education institutions. Mr. Old President! There are some specific areas that need to be expanded and strengthened. There is one area which, unfortunately, is very topical. It's about children's and family homes. I can imagine that everyone knows little heart, and there is now an investigation into a major legislative review that the Moderates have initiated. The Moderates want to see a strengthened socionomie education with an increased focus on scientific investigation methodology – this to provide better tools for doing good, safe and clear child and family home investigations. There are further areas that we need to prioritise. One such important area is child oncology, i.e. childhood cancer. This is a complex activity, and new treatments are constantly being developed. Here are now missing doctors, nurses and nurses. So there has been no real recruitment, and many are now retiring. It has not been possible to replenish as much as would be necessary. Here we really need to make a national review of the need for education and develop so that there will be more places. Mr. Old President! Last week, we debated the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the subject teacher education at three different higher education institutions. Then we talked about the concept of KPU, i.e. supplementary education. This is for people who already have a subject education, a vocational training or a research education and who want to change their profession and start working as teachers. This is a very important complement. More teachers are needed, and we need to keep existing teachers. They need more colleagues. The Moderates want to see a special investment in Teach for Sweden. They have a very good KPU, where you combine studies and practice. It trains future secondary teachers just where the needs are greatest. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 13. Since the situation is a bit uncertain right now I didn't want a nice summer yet, but I say nice midsummer for so long!
i-5iwH59UNKoK8m9uh16iaxt	Mr. Old President! I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 21. We are getting out of the pandemic that has been holding us in an iron grip for a year and a half. I'm sure we're now on our way out of it. Summer comes with sun and heat and reduces the spread of infection. Mass vaccinations are in full swing. I just got my second shot myself, so I guess the immune system's starting to kick in now. I see a bright light in the tunnel, unless there is a fourth wave with the new delta variant. We'll have to cross our fingers. We have talked a lot about the knowledge that has certainly taken place in primary and secondary schools. I am sure that some courses within the university have also been affected by an extensive knowledge gap. I think there is a great deal of difference between different educations. Some training courses may not have been affected at all, and others have suffered a great deal. Nevertheless, I would like to raise the finger of caution because it may have to be patched up and fixed at certain university courses. There has been a lot of talk over the past year about academic freedom. It is, in itself, a constant debate, and so should it. My note, however, is that different parties and interest groups pick out part of the academic freedom that favours their own agenda and ideology, and that is not the way to talk about everything else. This is, of course, a big whole. If you do, I wonder how much you really care about academic freedom. Or is it about picking snowed political points? Another thing that I, but no one else, usually mention is that this is a balance between the interests of the state, i.e. the government, and the interests of universities and colleges. I think that has always been the case, and that will always be the case as long as it is about tax money. As far as this balance is concerned, I think there have been too many targeted contributions as a whole. Each grant itself looks great, and is certainly good, but as a whole it becomes too little free money – what we call basic grants – for colleges and universities. The Swedish democrats' idea is to increase this proportion cautiously, with one step at a time. That would certainly increase academic freedom. I think that if colleges and universities are allowed to rule themselves, it will be as good as if the state or government, as it is, is controlling the money. In connection with this, I was going to bring up what we call the dance culture. Neither have we talked about this in this House, so I was going to bring it up for the first time. I have read a lot of articles from the United States and the United Kingdom. There is a major problem. Dancel culture means that those in academia – it can be teachers, lecturers or anyone – who say truths, who are uncomfortable, who do not go with their time and who may be a little politically incorrect do not get the grants that it would be natural for them to get. They do not get the services for which they may be the most qualified. I have read articles from the United States and the United Kingdom where there is basically a question of clean, classic schoolyard bullying. I think this is beneath any criticism. This is not the way we should have it, and it also occurs in Sweden – but perhaps not to the same extent as in the United Kingdom and the United States. In the UK, I even believe that Boris Johnson has made legislative proposals against this. We don't have to go that far in Sweden, but I think everyone should put their foot down against this kind of behaviour. It is not behavior that adults should engage in, not even academics. I think this is beneath any criticism. I will also mention an event that happened like a month ago. Mid Sweden University was supposed to arrange a simple breakfast seminar. It would be about the left profile Kajsa Ekis Ekman's book on the existence of the gender. I haven't read the book, and I'm not going to read it. But at least I've read Yvonne Hirdman's review of the book. Mid Sweden University cancelled the seminar. Now I would like to state that colleges cancel and organise whatever seminars they want; that is their freedom. But here they give a reason for cancelling the seminar, and it was that students could feel offended by the book and what Ekis Ekman would discuss. I have listened to the review myself. There are lots of things that I disagree with, but I just shrugged my shoulders. And this would mean that Swedish students would feel so offended by the University canceling the seminar! I think that's beneath any criticism. It is like Sweden's results in the ice hockey World Cup, and we know what we like about it. If Sweden is to become a prominent knowledge nation, which we all say we want, we must have tougher students than this. It's about the entire university business. What distinguishes universities and colleges from upper secondary schools is that at universities theories and conclusions are tested. They are criticized, and each other's theories are tested and examined critically. It is the core business itself, and this is something you have to bear. As usual, I was going to mention a little about the quality of education in our higher education institutions. We must recognise that there is a conflict or that there may be a conflict between quantity and quality in terms of education. I think that this government and previous governments, including alliance governments, have focused too much on quantity, which is easier to measure. If you focus too much on quantity, quality suffers. For example, there may be too little teacher-led teaching time if resources are not increased accordingly, and this is usually not done. It should be said that university studies involve a lot of self-study, self-planning and own responsibility, but it should be a reasonable proportion of teacher-led teaching time. It suffers if you focus only on quantity. I heard in some debate that the government in the footsteps of the pandemic wants to organise 19 000 new colleges. Now it's not still there, but it was at least its will. It is out of goodwill, not out of malice, but I am concerned about the quality of our education. It is possible, as I have said before, that our financing system favours quantity thinking rather than quality thinking. I think we should simply change the financing system. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to add a little to what I said earlier about quotas. I stand by the fact that we are opposed to quotas and detailed gender objectives, but having said that – I think we have forgotten to say this in the past – we obviously do not accept any imbalances. There should be a balance between different groups – between the sexes and other groups. If we have a college where it's 95% male professors don't think that's okay. I don't think so, and no one else in here either. Then you have to look at what it depends on and fix it. I just wanted to have this said.
i-MJrPymLr1bkCSK1ng1LRRS	Mr. Old President! We debate the university and sports that have been received during the general exercise period. I would like to start by talking about the university during the past year, when we have seen a major shift to distance learning among the students in higher education. Both students, teachers and researchers have made incredibly important efforts there to make it possible to reduce the spread of infection to the extent possible. These are impressive efforts that we should all be grateful for while hoping that campus environments and the like will soon be reopened. To face the pandemic, the Center Party has contributed as a constructive force in negotiations with the government and the Liberals. Several efforts have been made, not least when it comes to the university being able to contribute to the transition that many people have been in need of so that they have been able to change to take short courses for professionals or other education programmes during a short-term lay-off, such as digital distance courses of a shorter nature. There will also be more places so that more people can study at the university and stand more equipped in the situation when the economy turns around, more people need to get into the labour market and we in Sweden above all need to strengthen the skills. Last week I had discussions with large companies that saw the need for new skills. There, the university, but also other forms of education, play a key role in enabling companies to continue to establish themselves in Sweden or to go to Sweden and thereby contribute to our competitiveness, to getting tax revenue and to enabling us to invest in our welfare in the future. Madam President, I would like Education benefits both individuals and society as a whole. There should be access to higher education throughout the country. That it is of good quality is important for the Center Party. It increases people's opportunities for jobs and security, it benefits business and welfare and it contributes to people's education, which is an important perspective, not least in higher education. As I mentioned at the outset, several things have been done in the university area due to the pandemic, but other things are also needed in the future. There we in the Center Party want to point out some areas that we see as particularly important in terms of higher education. Firstly, we need to strengthen the quality of higher education. Sweden is among the lowest, or lowest, in terms of teacher-led teaching time in Europe, which is a sign that we need to invest in the quality of higher education in the future. This is important, not least in order to cope with the skills development and high-tech skills that need to be in business in the future so that more people leave education with more knowledge and better skills. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that Swedish higher education is already of high quality today. Only a few weeks ago we received a quality review of an international analytical institute that pointed out that we still have many higher education institutions. Two Swedish universities belong to the hundred best, and a total of six Swedish universities have advanced on the list. Secondly, the Center Party believes that it is important to make it easier for prospective students to compare their studies – which studies they want to conduct, which education they want to study and which university they want to go to – in order to contribute to quality but also to reduce the wrong choices for future students. Thirdly, Madam President, I think it is important in this debate to highlight student health, which plays an important role. Students were the population that faced major challenges in terms of mental health before the pandemic. The challenges have also increased for many students due to the pandemic, as homework and loneliness make it difficult for many. We see indicat ions that mental health has deteriorated as a result of the pandemic. That is why we have pushed for several measures with initiatives in relation to student health care together with the government and the Liberals. We see the need for efforts in the future to ensure, among other things, a strengthened rehabilitation responsibility for student health and more resources and expanded assignments in order to be able to work with helping students to a study-oriented rehabilitation with the aim of enabling the person on sick leave to return to their studies. In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 11 and wish the Committee on Education, the Bureau of Presidents and the secretariat of the Committee on Education and Training a pleasant summer.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1254	Madam President, I would like We are not going to talk about free renting in new production here, but we can see that the rental right is a common form of housing for students and that the rent already takes a large part of the student funds. Students' finances are strained, and student funds should be sufficient for much more than just rent. Although Swedish education is and should be free of charge, there are lots of hidden costs. This may involve expensive course literature, double residence and travel in the course of a training course, and it may involve compulsory field trips. Different universities also do different. Although you can get extra student loans for these costs, the Left Party believes that the education should be free of charge and that no one should be extra indebted because of the financial requirements of the education. There must be an investigation into hidden fees and costs in higher education, in particular in the field of activities. We also believe that all course literature should be made available digitally via university libraries. Another group that has a tough financial situation is foreign students. In addition to their living expenses, they must pay a fee for studying. The charging of higher education for students coming from outside the EEA is a step towards the view of knowledge and education as a commodity and a step away from the important values of freedom, equality, critical scrutiny and science that higher education should bear. The fact that people from other countries come to Sweden to study enriches the Swedish university and contributes to increased quality. We have therefore proposed that the fee be investigated and eventually abolished. Madam President, I would like The University's task is to convey knowledge and education. It is important for creating prosperity and an open and democratic society. The Left Party's view of knowledge as a democratic right means that an important objective is to broaden recruitment to the university. Social, gender and ethnic misrecruitment has certainly been reduced thanks to student funds and an expanded university. However, there are still major differences between both education and higher education institutions in how well they have succeeded in broadening recruitment. All universities must be better at using the tools available, but the state must also be better at providing conditions through a changed funding system for the university. The current resource allocation system for higher education has been in place for almost 30 years. It is time to reform it. We need to review the price tags and abolish the performance part. In addition, underfunded basic education affects the entire system all the way up to research. In our budget, we have proposed an increase in student money, but that is not enough. The entire financing system needs to be reformed, as noted by the Steering and Resource Survey. Madam President, I would like In addition to the proposals I have mentioned, the Left Party has also written a special motion on measures to make it easier for students with disabilities to take the university test and to study in higher education. We are seriously concerned that not everyone has an equal opportunity to study at the university. We can say that students with disabilities are under-represented in higher education, although the Swedish university should be accessible and open to everyone. The Swedish Council for Higher Education shows in a report that students with disabilities are less satisfied with their education, have a more negative experience of their studies and feel less at home in the university environment. They also experience much more financial difficulties in connection with their studies. Several universities have appointed coordinators for accessibility work and work to prevent and remove physical barriers. At the same time, however, the number of universities with accessibility action plans has decreased. The legislation places high demands on physical accessibility, and these are the elements on which higher education institutions focus their accessibility work. On the other hand, there are shortcomings in the knowledge of neuropsychiatric disabilities in particular. Many students with neuropsychiatric disabilities or mental illness describe to a much greater extent than other students that they often feel that they do not belong at the university and that they question their choice to study. Our universities have reasonable competence to meet the needs of physical adaptation and the needs of assistive devices, but the competence on how to teach and examine people with neuropsychiatric disabilities and mental illness is insufficient. A great responsibility rests on the higher education institutions as an employer to ensure that the staff have the skills required to meet and teach all students. We therefore need to ensure the skills required to meet students with disabilities. As I said, students with disabilities experience much more financial difficulties compared to students without disabilities. Many do not know the possibility of having a slower pace of study with full study funding, while most of the few who apply are rejected. Several students with disabilities call for the possibility to be on sick leave part-time and study part-time. Those who become ill during studies may retain full-time study funding, even if the studies are conducted only part-time. But this does not apply to students with disabilities. In order for more people with disabilities to feel financially secure during studies, we need to find security systems that work. The possibility for students to have a reduced rate of study is also limited, as it is based on the fact that the education or higher education institution has the opportunity to give it. For example, a student may need extra supervision when writing a thesis or a degree project. Whether this can be given is entirely up to the HEI and should also be accommodated within the budget. All students must receive the support they are entitled to, and the Left Party therefore proposes that the university's funding for extra support be reviewed. Finally, Madam President, I would like to take up the university test. The university test is a second chance for many to get into the education they want to attend. Young people with disabilities drop out of upper secondary school studies to a greater extent – 9 per cent compared with 3 per cent in the rest of the population. Komvux and the university test will therefore be an important way to apply for higher education. Those who can certify that they have dyslexia or visual impairment have the opportunity to make an adapted test. When it comes to others with disabilities, the university can adapt the test situation, but there is nothing to say that it must be done. Not all requests for adaptation can therefore be met. For the Left Party, it is obvious that people with disabilities should not be discriminated against. The opportunity to take the university test on the basis of their prerequisites must be available for everyone. We therefore want the Swedish Council for Higher Education to organise the university test with the adaptations required by various disabilities. Madam President, I would like I think that all the motion requests by the Left Party are good, and I would like to call for everyone's approval. But here and now, I only ask for reservation 7.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1271	Madam President, I would like Today's healthcare, as well as Sweden's development and our innovation and competitiveness, is yesterday's research. Our universities must therefore be given the opportunity to conduct research of the highest quality. However, it is also important that universities organise programmes with strong research links. The fact that they convey knowledge based on scientific basis and proven experience is fundamental to stimulating and inspiring the students and for the students to have the best conditions to meet society's skills needs in different areas. Good access to competent university teachers and researchers who are allowed to work in a stimulating research and working environment is therefore crucial. We Christian Democrats have put forward proposals on this in other reports. This involves, among other things, earmarking part of the basic grant to use it to secure employment conditions for young researchers. We have also proposed that the deadline for applying for a position as assistant lecturer should be extended from five to seven years after the public defence, in order for more people to have time for merit and be able to be adequately evaluated. It is also important that the Higher Education Ordinance clearly states that a so-called "combined employment" is also available to assistant lecturers. Madam President, I would like Higher education and research must also attract and exploit all interested people in order to maintain Sweden's competitiveness. It should be possible to study at college or university regardless of whether you come directly from upper secondary school, if you have a disability or if you are a single parent of young children, but also whether you are raised in an academic family or as me in a work home. I would therefore like to highlight in my speech today a number of proposals linked to the situation of students, which in various ways aim to create student social security during higher education. Some of the proposals come from the Christian Democrats' own motions, and other proposals come from other parties, and we have incorporated them in the committee's preparation process. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for a good climate of discussion over the past year. Madam President, I would like Student unions at the country's higher education institutions have an important role in driving too high quality in higher education, monitoring the students' situation and ensuring that universities prevent sexual harassment and mental illness. However, according to a report from the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, in 2017, the student unions are heavily underfunded. The report shows that many student unions are forced to rely on grants from their own higher education institution in order to be able to carry out a functioning activity. UKÄ concluded that there is a risk that the student unions will end up in a position of dependence on the higher education institutions, which in turn may make it difficult to carry out the important critical review. In addition, higher education institutions provide different amounts of support, which leads to large differences across the country in how well students' interests are protected. We Christian Democrats have previously paid attention to this and the problems it entails, and we are therefore in favour of the fact that the government in the last budget added resources to the student unions. That's very good. In this context, however, it is important to emphasise that active work on the part of higher education institutions is a necessary and fundamental part of securing the students' working environment. It is not least important to rig student health so that students affected by mental illness have access to the support they need. We all share the ambition that more people will have the opportunity for further studies, and that means that more people may need more support. The teaching institutions must be on their toes and offer better conditions for all students to pass the studies. We Christian Democrats therefore agreed with the Liberals' proposals on this in the current report. Madam President, I would like As the previous speaker described, the university test represents a second chance to enter higher education and then further into the labour market. It is therefore important that people with disabilities are also given the opportunity to carry out the test adjusted according to their conditions. However, there are limitations to the current system. The Christian Democrats therefore have a joint reservation with the Left Party on the basis of our respective motions. We want to review the availability of the university test in terms of both the premises and the adaptation of the test so that people with physical, intellectual and neuropsychiatric disabilities are given better opportunities to complete the university test. We also believe that it should be possible for people with disabilities to carry out an adapted test both in the spring and in the autumn, not just today in the autumn. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Left Party for the value of strengthening the ability of higher education institutions to offer extra guidance in the form of special pedagogical support and sign language interpretation for students with various disabilities. This support may be crucial for these students to have the opportunity to successfully complete their education and thus strengthen their ability to establish themselves in the labour market. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that today there are a small number of individual higher education institutions that do not have the legal room to take out insurance via Kammarkollegiet in student internships abroad. When the individual university is unable to take out insurance for students who want to practice abroad, these students must rely on private insurance. This creates an inequality that risks that some students do not have the ability to practice abroad. This is regrettable because international experience is often valuable not only for the student's own development but also for society as a whole, as a foreign practice can provide experiences that can contribute to the ability to meet specific skills needs in the Swedish labour market. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that the insurance issue of foreign traineeships for higher education students should be resolved equally regardless of the principal. Madam President, I would like These were some of the reservations supported by the Christian Democrats in the present report. Of course, we are also in favour of the others, but I am only in favour of reservation number 1.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1287	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with a report relating to the university. I will make a few cuts in what we in the Liberals think is of great importance. My starting point, however, is the title of today's debate despite, in the youth school. An important but rarely noticed factor affecting the quality of higher education has to do with the students' prior knowledge. In order to strengthen the quality of higher education, it is crucial to have a strong educational chain where both primary and secondary schools have a high quality so that prospective students are well prepared for higher education. Madam President, I would like I think there's a lot of us in here who remember the UR documentary from last year called the Writer's Gift. It was based on concern among employers and university teachers over a generation of young people who lack writing skills. Of course, this does not apply to everyone, but there are enough for there to be cause for concern. Being able to make oneself understood in writing is fundamental in many professions. This is not primarily about the young, it is about a school that has not had the ability or the ability to teach in a good way. We must continue to work on this by putting the school's knowledge mission at the centre. Madam President, I would like We also believe that it will continue to have to work continuously to develop higher education education – a not infrequently forgotten area. Last week we heard in a report from Sweden's unifying student unions about the need for further training for university teachers in digitalization. We already know that digitalisation is here to stay, but it requires increased work on equivalence. There should be no difference in quality if you choose to take a course where the majority of the teaching takes place digitally compared to if you are studying a course where the teaching takes place physically, in place at the HEI. Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have mentioned, over the past year, in the wake of the pandemic, several efforts have been made to extend higher education with an increased number of seats. Liberals support these proposals, but we also believe that, in the process under way, it is essential to take account of access to university teachers. In several areas, the lack of university teachers is significant, which prevents an expansion of education in which the quality of teaching is maintained. The liberals also believe that the ambition that more people will have the opportunity for further studies means that more individuals may need more support and better conditions to manage the studies. This can be about measures to strengthen the students' work environment but also about access to support for those who during their studies suffer from mental illness. I think few in here have missed that Liberals are always trying to get the word quality in terms of higher education and research. It is not because the word itself has any significance but because of what it symbolizes and what it does with an education that it is of high quality and excellence. We know that we are far from alone in that effort– I don't think there's anyone in here who wants a higher education of poor quality or who doesn't strive for excellence – but there are a number of reasons for this. I refer once again to equivalence, as I mentioned earlier: If you have chosen to continue your studies, to invest in your future and take student loans, it must be our responsibility as decision-makers – and in a way enablers – that your training as a nurse or civil engineer meets high quality standards. This shall apply to all higher education institutions providing the education in question. Madam President, I would like During this pandemic, many have made extraordinary efforts in many areas. In the field of higher education, the university test, perhaps a little unexpected, has been at the heart of the discussion. There have been many debates about its being or not being, but it finally resolved. Autumn 2020 and spring 2021 have, with certain limitations, been able to write the university test. However, the Pandemin and the work to prevent cheating on this test, despite this few university exams in place, have delayed the work on the bill. We look forward to this proposal coming and to tackling the problems that exist. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about a very wise colleague of mine in the Committee on Social Affairs, Lina Nordqvist. She often points out the need for more identification professions. More important professions need the control and security guaranteed by a licence. We in the Liberals see that the security of citizens who need a strong safety net needs to be ensured by perfusionist and social security secretary becoming licence professions. It is our conviction that such a change would increase the security of citizens, strengthen the status and conditions of the professions and provide the control function that a licence entails. I think the audience is well aware of what a perfusionist does, but to anyone who does not know it, I will say that the primary task of a perfusionist is to regulate the patient's physiological, metabolic and pharmacological needs via a heart-lung machine during open heart surgery. This is a profession that we rarely talk about but which nevertheless perform vital tasks. For such a function, it would be valuable to have a status of identification, just as for socionomists. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for the gain of time, I only ask for reservation 10.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1302	Madam President, I would like As has been said, we are debating motions from the general period of exercise last autumn. It is a large area, many exercises and very different focus. We are still in the midst of a pandemic that over the past year has changed the working conditions and the environment for our students. As we have seen, almost all the work has been done on a digitised basis. The studies have looked very different for the students; time has been missed with friends in their spare time. In the meantime, we have also expanded higher education so that more people get a place of study. This is very important. I was going to take a little historical look back to focus on how important higher education has been through the centuries to this day. We will see some similarities with today. In the 12th century, when the first universities came into existence, priests and officials were trained. So it was primarily vocational training at the time. In 1477 we got our first university in Sweden, in Uppsala. In the 1800s they talked a lot about what a previous speaker here, Fredrik Christensson, talked about, namely the education ideal. It was important that the individual understood himself and got an overall picture of society in order to increase democracy, and we are talking about this today as well. In the early 1900s we in Sweden had six higher education institutions, universities and higher education institutions. In the 1920s we had 6,500 students. By 1945 the number had increased to 14,000. Once before, I have stood in this speaker's chair and told you about when I spent a weekend studying the 1940 school inquiry. Actually, I was gonna come back to it today. It contained two parts. One part was what I was talking about last time: reviewing the school system. The second purpose of that school inquiry was to increase recruitment to higher education among – to use the words of the investigation; I am not the one who says this – rural people, as was then called some people, and groups with lower levels of education. That was one of the purposes of the 1940 school inquiry. In the 1960s, general student support was provided. This meant that more people – perhaps from the groups that the 1940 school inquiry talked about – came to higher education because they had the opportunity to get there. The 1977 Higher Education Reform aimed to broaden recruitment. We know that higher education has always contributed to growth and development and will always do so. I thought I'd dwell on this with extended recruitment. Unfortunately, as several speakers have said before, the family background plays a far too big role if you study and what you go on to in higher education at all. We see that those who come from families with lower levels of education more often choose vocational training – nurse, teacher and so on – while those who come from families who are used to the academic world choose other programs or courses. This is something that we really need to try to change. We also see that today there are more women than men studying further. In the 50's, 14 per cent were in higher education, and then there were as many women as men. You can think about what has happened since the 1950s that caused the men in this case to lag behind. UKÄ has also shown that about 5 000 students per year of age who have good grades and who could well continue to study choose not to do so. This also needs to be considered – why is that? It is no secret that we Social Democrats think that all upper secondary education programmes, by being pre-graduate, should be able to lead to higher education for those who want to. Even more so when you see the figures showing that 64 per cent of the students from the higher education programmes continue to study within three years, while only 10 per cent of the students from the vocational programmes continue to study. You really need to think about whether it's going to look like it is today. I don't think so. Wider recruitment is also important when it comes to the fact that proximity to a higher education institution plays a role. We know that we have 251 municipalities in our country that have inhabitants below the average level of education. Our Minister for Research, Matilda, usually says this: Where you live should not be crucial to your life's opportunities. You can certainly agree with that. Today, however, all statistics show that it actually matters whether you live near a university or not. Therefore, it is exciting to see those countries that go ahead, like Scotland, who have decided to take the education to the student instead of taking the student to the education. This is done with the help of campuses and learning centres. We have some good examples in Sweden of this with the learning centre. We also have some studies that have shown that there are very important gains to be made by investing in learning centres, such as getting those who did not study to study and getting those who stayed – who did not go away and who did not leave home – to come back to higher education. Of course, it is also important for regional and local skills provision. There are many people who have talked about quality here today, and I am going to do that a little bit. After all, we have the UKÄ that reviews, evaluates and examines a degree certificate, and when you do so you start from the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Regulation, but also from the principles of quality assurance in Europe. A preliminary study for the national quality evaluation system will now be in place in 2021, and the new system will apply from 2023. As someone said before, we have high quality in Sweden. When you look at different things, for example the subject teacher education last, some universities get comments and then have a year to correct it. If they don't correct it, they'll have to drop their education. I'll also say a few words about the students. I started with history and that higher education used to be for the few. In autumn 2020 there were 384 500 students, 19 600 more than in 2010. There are more people who get a chance to make their dreams come true. The number of graduates has also increased by 9 percent, and that is a good thing. The pandemic has increased the need for training places, and to meet the need we need to increase the number of study places. Finally, there are 24 reservations about everything from university exams, student questions, dimensioning, identification and so on, as we have heard about before. I call for all reservations to be rejected, with reference to the provisions in force, work in progress and measures already taken, and for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-ec69f4c93a7558f6-1326	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with a high level of education. We are at the forefront of research. Sweden is, and will be, one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation. That is the red-green government's goal for research policy. We are there, and we are there because for a very long time we have invested widely in education, in education, in school, in education, in higher education, in research and in continuing education. Good education is the fourth of the UN's global sustainability goals, and Sweden takes responsibility for this goal both at home and internationally. What we are debating today are motions and proposals in the field of higher education, and I will tell you what the Environmental Party wants with the university and about our view of higher education and research. We want quite a lot, Madam President, so I will perhaps exceed the speaking time somewhat. The activities of our universities, universities and higher education institutions are based on the close link between education and research. Both the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Ordinance state that higher education should be based on scientific foundations and research. University teachers should therefore be active researchers. The same obviously applies to the reverse, namely that researchers at our universities should actively participate in the teaching, preferably also, I think, at the undergraduate level. This is unique to universities. This link is what distinguishes the activities of universities and colleges from other types of teaching and research, for example in the private sector, and it is important to protect and remind. We often talk about the benefits of research and then gladly in terms of innovation and commercial benefits. But it is important to remember that the most likely benefit of research at our higher education institutions is precisely the opportunity to create the good knowledge environments and provide the conditions for teaching at higher education institutions. We need both excellence and breadth in our operations. Without the breadth, there is no basis for lace, growth and regrowth, and on the contrary, the lead in research is needed to create a breadth of high quality. These two parts are completely connected. We need to broaden recruitment to higher education so that we reach the young people who come from home where studies may not have always been present. Such an assignment is included in the regulation letter to CSN. Here, too, the university test plays a major role, because we know that high school grades as a selection basis are often very problematic. We need high and equivalent quality education throughout the country, and that also requires strong research environments across the country. That's why we have a network of higher education institutions from Lund to Luleå. Gunilla Svantorp from the Social Democrats was also involved in broader recruitment and research environments throughout the country. But maybe everything can't be exactly everywhere. Therefore, the government is investing in the research policy proposal that we adopted in this House a few months ago in a new way to allocate the quality-based basic grants for research to universities. It's based on profile areas. This provides incentives for universities to profile themselves but also to collaborate with each other in order to create knowledge and research environments of a high international level. Madam President, I would like In order to strengthen the quality of teaching, higher education institutions are also tasked with strengthening job security for teachers with their specific objectives. Safe teachers provide better education, clearly. We also clarify career paths in academia, not least for young researchers, through more merit positions. But the quality of teaching also needs to be based on the student's perspective. We need to put the student at the centre to create the best opportunities for each student to perform their very best. Starting from the student perspective means to some extent a new way of looking at how we can improve the quality of education. I mean there's a lot of untapped potential here. If we enable students to focus more on their studies and reduce all distractions, we use our resources in a much more efficient way. This means that we need to do reinforcements throughout the study social environment. Important actors here are of course the corps and student health. Sick and unemployment insurance also needs to be better adapted to the situation of students. We also need to look at pedagogy, not least digital pedagogy, as teaching during the pandemic has moved to distance learning. The Government's budget for this year provides funds for developing distance learning. There are also funds for the unions and student health. Earlier in the debate, we have also been into more teacher-led lessons. Students need to have more access to their teachers, which is included in the January agreement on teacher training, but this is needed in all teaching on the subjects that today have far too little teacher-led time. In some educations, the teacher-led time is at a really low level. I myself have taught at the undergraduate level, where the students only get about five hours a week with the teachers. It's far too little. We need to do a lot here. The student influence in the programme and in the course design is another area that can be developed. It is again a question of making more effective use of our resources by asking students what is needed. But it is also about increasing motivation among students and about academic freedom, which of course also includes students. A tangible distraction that I mentioned earlier is the economic stress that a lot of students feel. We need to find ways to strengthen students' finances. This may be about access to course literature and costs for it, which Ilona Szatmari Waldau has mentioned before, but also about the fact that we should continue to increase the grant part of the study grant. I believe that it was raised by SEK 300 during the last term of office of the Red Green Government, and we probably need to continue to raise that now. It should of course be easy for students to find a home. Many students move to a new place when they start studying. Of course, spending perhaps several months on housing applicants, second-hand residences and permanent relocations is not at all good for this with a focus on studies. It is possible to build up the student housing shortage. It may not be possible to do so in the rest of the housing market, but for student housing it is possible. In fact, the municipalities in the large student towns need to improve here. In my own constituency, the City of Stockholm, 1 000 student and research apartments are currently being built in a new campus, Campus Albano. That is good, but we have made a lot of mistakes along the way and continue to do so when we do not build student housing in all the new areas that we are now building. We have heard in recent days that we have a historically high level of housing construction in Sweden. Here we also need to work more with student housing. I have positive experiences of living in a student housing area, Lappis here in Stockholm. However, I must say that the best thing is to build mixed residential areas. This applies to the whole of urban development, and it also applies to student housing. Housing costs must be kept down. High rents force students too often to work alongside the economy. We know that a little work alongside studies is often good. It actually increases the study results, it gives better finances and it gives work experience. But at a certain level it becomes too much, and the results of the study and the pace of study are falling. This is explained quite clearly in the study grant inquiry that came in 2018 and that also proposes an age-differentiated free amount for how much you can earn before the right to study support falls, precisely to not provide incentives for too much work alongside, especially for younger students. Here, I believe, we also have great potential to improve the quality of education. Madam President, I would like The Government has commissioned several authorities to closely monitor the health situation of the students, not least with a focus on mental health. Both UKÄ and CSN have a mission to monitor mental health and report back to the government. We now need to follow it up with additional resources for Student Health and the Corps. There are also funds for this in the Government's budget for 2021. Gender equality is, of course, another important area for a feminist government. Women who want to pursue careers in academia still face more obstacles than men. The Swedish Research Council notes this in a report that came just a few days ago. It is about time to research, about precarious employment and about promotion to professors in particular in certain areas, especially science and technology. The teaching institutions are now tasked with increasing the proportion of female professors. Here, I also believe that the mission to strengthen employment security will have a good effect on gender equality. While we see that progress is being made – although it is going a little too slow – with gender equality among professors, we see that gender equality in the recruitment of students is moving in the wrong direction and has been doing so for a very long time. It is now over 60 percent female students and thus less than 40 percent male. We are slowly approaching the level where we have twice as many female as male students, while at the same time we have not solved the problem that some educations are highly gender-segregated. We really need to get to grips with that. Madam President, I would like New life chances and lifelong learning are also something that the Green Party has been pushing for a long time. Now we have formulated a special assignment to the universities around it. We also raise the age for the possibility of receiving study funding. The government has also recently presented a new transition study support to strengthen people in the middle of working life to better assert themselves on and match the labour market. It is a proposal that the Green Party introduced into the January agreement under a different name but which unfortunately disappeared last time, one might say, as the Left addressed the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. However, it returned after being fished up by the social partners. Now it has been negotiated in the Government Office, which is a good thing. But it is also in danger of falling again because of what happened in this House this morning. It would be very boring, I think. Madam President, I would like I'm about to finish. I have spent most of my time in education. As regards research and the third task, cooperation, we have debated this earlier in this House when we adopted the research policy proposal. We have with that bill a foundation and a plan to continue to strengthen Sweden as a research nation. It is about safeguarding free research and the freedom of research, creating strong environments and an infrastructure for research and focusing on selected societal challenges. Madam President, I would like With this description of what the Green Party wants with higher education policy, I support the committee's proposal in the report. After all, I am last on the list of speakers for today, so I would also like to wish a good evening and a pleasant summer to the whole committee, the President's Bureau and all the staff.
