i-26df9af1d0462e7a-15	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby has asked me what I intend to do to compensate the restaurant industry for the negative consequences of the use of other legislation and recommendations if the government does not intend to use pandemic legislation to, for example, close down certain restaurants and pay compensation. Madam President, I would like For large parts of society, the spread of the Corona virus has brought great difficulties and challenges, and we are still in a very serious situation. Many industries and entrepreneurs have been severely affected economically as a result of the virus, not least the restaurant industry. The government has therefore presented a series of support measures that address various problems in order to create together the best possible conditions for the country's companies and employees to overcome the negative economic consequences of the ongoing pandemic. These include, among other things, conversion aid, turnover aid for individual traders, short-term lay-off, liquidity aid in the form of deferred tax payments, credit guarantees such as Foretagsakten, relief of the unemployment fund for entrepreneurs and temporary reduction of employers' contributions and social security contributions. Madam President, I would like In connection with the increased spread of infection, the Government has announced that several of the support measures will be extended to support Swedish jobs and companies through the difficult crisis one. The government has also recently proposed funds for a new closure aid and a new period of state aid during which some local tenants will receive a discount on the rent. At the same time, the legislative process takes time, although it is much faster now than it does otherwise, and in many cases it also requires the approval of the European Commission to get the aid in place. In order for companies to cope with the emergency liquidity, we have therefore both extended and increased the liquidity support via the tax account. This means, Madam President, that companies can postpone tax for three additional accounting periods and be deferred retroactively, which means that companies can already have three months of paid tax refunded in February. I and the government are closely following developments in these difficult times and are constantly analysing the need for both adjustments and the necessary measures for the Swedish business community.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-22	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Baylan for his reply. Anyone who listened to an earlier debate with similar questions can see that today's answers contain as many words but lack some of the answers that worried restaurant owners and employees are asking for. The pandemic has hit Sweden hard with over 12 000 dead. The health of people and the protection of our citizens must always come first. There is no political disagreement on this. Until 10 January this year, the government has tried to stop the spread of the virus by means of existing legislation, which has proved insufficient. As of 10 January, pandemic legislation has been put in place, which together with the vaccination that has begun makes people think that we are moving towards brighter times. Not only human health but also the Swedish economy suffers. Companies are struggling. Jobs disappear. People lose their jobs. Young people do not enter the labour market. Unemployment is increasing dramatically. An industry that is particularly hard hit is the restaurant business. In order to reduce the number of visitors, the government has used alcohol legislation, among other things. People have been asked not to go to a restaurant, and it has produced results. In my hometown of Borås, visits have decreased by 70 per cent, so has the revenue. Business is on its knees. They cut costs, i.e. lay off employees. Now there's not much more to save. Madam President, I would like The government's support package, for which we heard Minister Baylan talk hotly, has not reached the point. Now the desperation is great. Many see nothing but bankruptcy. The hope for many restaurateurs was that the government would use pandemic legislation to close the restaurants temporarily. According to the Pandemic Act, closure would give companies the right to compensation from the state and save businesses and jobs. But this does not seem to be the case. Today we hear Minister Baylan describe everything the government wants to do, but unfortunately the intentions of the government are not being seen in reality. Sweden's and Borås's restaurateurs have not received support from the state since August last year. Nor does the Minister for Economic Affairs' colleague Lena Hallengren have any plans to use the tools that the Government asked the Riksdag for. In answer to a written question, Hallengren answers: Where such a measure is considered, it shall be compared with the negative impact it may have on activities affected by such closure. ..................................................... Unfortunately, the negative consequences that Minister Hallengren wants to avoid have already been achieved through recommendations and the use of alcohol legislation in principle introducing a trade ban for an entire industry. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs not see that the consequences of the government's actions are thousands of lost jobs when an industry is so severely affected by a trade ban as the restaurant industry has basically been? Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry's answer contained a lot of words, but what concrete significance do they have for restaurant workers who are worried about their jobs and the individual entrepreneur who sees his life's work being destroyed? What improvements in the near future – for this is real – can the Minister of Economic Affairs promise those who are currently sleepless in the face of the loss of their future?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-32	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Cecilie Toftby for a highly up-to-date interpellation on the terms and conditions of the restaurant industry. Since the pandemic broke out at the beginning of last year, we have probably all been in constant contact with desperate entrepreneurs who have seen their income fall due to circumstances that have not had power over or the opportunity to influence. One of the sectors most affected is the restaurant industry. As recently as Friday morning I sat with a number of restaurateurs in Gothenburg who described how their operations now balanced on a knife edge, how restaurateurs sold their holiday home to afford to pay the company's debts, how the pandemic made a restaurant with a Michelin star now closed down to never reopen and how a known entertainment event on Avenyn went from 100 people on the payroll to now only 4. That, Madam President, is not because one has been unmanageable in running a business. It is not because you have failed to please the restaurant guests. It is not because unnecessary risks have been taken. On the contrary, these are restaurants that last February were viable and appreciated. Madam President, I would like Continuously during the autumn, restrictions have been imposed on the size of the company that can be served and between which times. First one was supposed to close at 10:00, now at 8:00. At short notice and at times, these restrictions have been extended. Last Thursday the government told us that the 20 limit would be extended for a week, probably throughout February, and then possibly moved to 22. While the restaurants have adapted to these provisions and have otherwise been threatened by a penalty payment, they have not received any special compensation for their activities and work being circumscribed and, in some cases, they have been almost prohibited from working. As an onion on the salmon, Madam President, they have also suffered from the slowness of the government in paying out the aid that has been decided upon. Some restaurant owners I've been talking to have been waiting for lay-off support since July last year. One almost gets the impression that the Government and Government believe that in the kitchen of each restaurant there is a large treasure chest or a bag full of money ready to bail out while the state's compensation is delayed. Otherwise, why is the government not prepared to provide compensation to these companies in accordance with the Pandemic Act? Madam President, I would like Trust in society is beginning to run out among these restaurateurs – not only because they receive no special compensation despite the fact that their freedom to conduct a business has been curtailed, but also because the compensation they have been promised is delayed or does not come. What does the Government intend to do about this? If the problem is fear of cheating, strengthen controls and tighten penalties for those who cheat! But, Madam President, do not let the restaurateurs who follow all the laws and rules suffer!
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-40	Madam President, I would like What is this basically about? It is not really measures but the fact that we are in the most difficult crisis we have experienced in modern times, both for public health and for our companies and employees. Unfortunately, it manifests very well in the question posed by Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby. When she wrote the interpellation – it's dated 28 January – she started like this: That's correct. In Sweden, over 11 000 people have died as a result of the pandemic. That's what the interpellation says. So it was written about two weeks ago. Even now we know that that 11,000 is not true. That is over 12 000, as Mrs Cecilie said in her speech. This is basically what we have to fight together. Madam President, I would like Although it sounds different from the speaker's seat right now, we have been in complete agreement with the Moderates that Sweden should not go into the kind of lockdowns that many other countries have done. Of course, these measures should be evaluated ex post, but we see that many countries are entering their third lockdown since March last year, with huge consequences for jobs and entrepreneurship, but of course also for people. So here we are asking why we do not use the law of shutdown when we basically do not propose such a thing ourselves, but agreed with us to have a strategy in which we do our best to curb the infection, to ensure that health care has the resources it needs, to save human lives and, at the same time, to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. I think we are all aware that the situation is very difficult. Let's discuss the restaurants and the hotels. Yes, there the situation is extremely tough, especially as we are now on our tenth month in the pandemic. True, things have gone a little upside down. It was very dark during the spring. Then, at the end of summer and early autumn, we had a slight upturn for businesses and employment. But then, Madam President, ever since the infection began, we have seen a rather sharp decline again. I am now being asked about concrete measures. It is precisely against this background, Madam President, that the government has proposed and the Parliament has already decided on a number of measures on certain issues, namely: 中 that short-term aid should not only be extended but should also be increased up to 80% 中 that the conversion aid should not only be extended but should also be increased up to 90 %.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-49	中 extension and strengthening of extensions in order to be able to cope with liquidity . the extension and reinforcement of the possibility of receiving help via the Enterprise Act. Madam President, I would like We've been talking about the restaurant and hotel business, and of course it's an industry that's been hit very hard. But we also have cultural life, we have fairs, we have tour operators of various kinds, we have amusement parks and others who, ever since March, have been unable to operate. Had we not had this support, which we are now also proposing further reinforcements, it is clear that the situation, which is already extremely tough, would have been much more difficult than it is. Madam President, I would like I can see that we have far too many unemployed. Nevertheless, when we look at the bankruptcy statistics from last year, we see that all of this has had some effect since the number of bankruptcies went down in 2020 compared to 2019.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-53	Madam President, I would like Of course, we share all the concerns of the Minister for Economic Affairs about the pandemic and the continuing consequences. I also agree with the Minister for Enterprise: using pandemic legislation to shut down is a tough measure. It is good that the Minister for Economic Affairs, through his description of the situation, shows a certain sense of crisis. Unfortunately, however, Madam President, I do not believe that the people out there recognise the optimism of the Minister for Economic Affairs as regards the government's support package. A restaurateur in Borås describes the support so far as mediocre, difficult to take part in and with a bureaucracy that does not work for small and medium-sized enterprises. Visiting industry's own organisation Visita has repeatedly tried to get the government to understand the seriousness of the situation. The figures they report are frightening: Every third employee in the tourism industry has lost their job. Fifty thousand restaurant workers no longer have a job to go to. What makes the situation even more serious is that many of these are young – young people who now see that the foot they were hoping to get into the labour market, or perhaps even had got in before the pandemic struck, is torn away. The restaurant industry and the tourism industry in general are industries that have traditionally offered people who have been far from the labour market an opportunity to create a future. That aspect should have been much clearer in the reply of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Madam President, I would like If the government does not start working seriously for the money to come out and for the support to meet the companies that have been hit hardest by the pandemic, we have only seen the beginning of the bankruptcy wave, a wave of bankruptcy that can be as serious for Sweden's economy and our jobs as the pandemic waves so far have been for the more than 12 000 deaths in Sweden. That is why, Madam President, I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs once again: how does the Minister for Economic Affairs intend to act in order for aid to reach those who need it – and, Madam President, not least before more jobs are lost and more companies go bankrupt? This, Madam President, is for real!
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-60	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I want to draw a parable. Tä of a dark night on a deserted street in a Swedish city. The fire alarm is in a restaurant, and emergency services are picking up. When the fire truck arrives, you see open flames. There's a fire inside the restaurant. If the emergency services are fast, the fire will not spread and the damage will be limited. But how do you know this isn't about insurance fraud? Far from always, but sometimes fires like this are built because someone wants to get money on insurance. The few cases where it happens are criminal and should be prosecuted. With the government's approach, emergency services will now first call fire investigators. You need to sort out the cause of the fire and make sure it's not laid out. Only when it is ready can the go-ahead be given for emergency services to go in and extinguish. The problem is that the fire is no longer limited when it is finished. The restaurant is flooded, the fire has spread and residents on the street have been evacuated. That is exactly what is happening now in the pandemic. The government's concern about making wrong payments gets everything stuck in the bureaucracy. There may be false payments, and so we do not want to rush the aid, but in a crisis situation it is actually the same as not letting the fire department in before the cause of the fire is investigated. Any attempt at fraud and deception of emergency aid shall be thoroughly investigated, prosecuted and punished. We Moderates have also proposed this. But like the fire at the restaurant, the investigation can be done afterwards. Concerns about the failure of aid must not lead innocent restaurateurs to see their life's work disappear in the flames of the crisis.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-65	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that entrepreneurs are frustrated. I feel the same frustration. I see them, and they state that they would have preferred to see that we did not impose these restrictions. I would've liked the same thing. They wish we could have a more normal situation. I wish so, too. Nevertheless, I think we all understand that if we do not take decisive action when we have a massive spread of infection, as we did in November, there is a considerable risk that things will get worse. Then, like many other countries, we would have to introduce draconian measures such as curfews, as we see in some European countries, and total closure, as we see in other countries. We have nevertheless agreed in this House that we should try to avoid it for many different reasons, not only for economic reasons but also for reasons of public health of various kinds. Madam President, I would like Yes, we have proposed, and now, in some cases, have decisions from the Riksdag that we are moving forward with, the strengthening of these subsidies that have proved effective. And yes, they have also met the hotel and restaurant companies, although not enough yet because we are still in the midst of a very difficult crisis. When we look at short-term aid, conversion aid and rental aid, and so on, we see that these sectors are quite high in terms of receiving aid. I'm the first person to sign that we're going to do this as soon as possible. We have now implemented 13 amending budgets in the ten months since this crisis broke out. We have done this at a speed that no government has ever had before. Is that enough? No. Moreover, this crisis continues and worsens, so you need to constantly intensify your work. I find it rather contradictory to listen to the Moderates. It is said, on the one hand, that the controls are strengthened! On the other hand, they say: Make sure this comes out as quickly as possible! For example, in the case of short-term aid, which is the largest amount of aid in money so far, the average duration of response to an application for lay-off aid was eight days throughout 2020. What, then, is taking time? For some entrepreneurs it takes longer, that's it. Well, what takes time is for these checks to be carried out to ensure that the money goes to the companies that are actually supposed to have it: those who need it, those who are honest, those who are healthy. In many paragraphs, it is perfectly fine, but for some – I would say a minority – it takes time. There may be various reasons for this, Madam President. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, it may be that the data are not correct when they are checked by the Swedish Tax Agency, that there have been two applications from the same company or that you simply do not get an answer. It'll take longer. It is against this background, Madam President, that we have intensified the work of hiring more administrators at the Swedish Agency for Growth. F robbery zero in March, they are now over 400, and now we are shooting at additional resources so that they can do this faster. It is therefore against this background that we automate so that those who have their papers in order can quickly get a reply and therefore also quickly get paid. Madam President, I would like I really understand the frustration, but we work intensively to support our companies, save Swedish companies and save Swedish jobs. But we want to do it in a legally secure way so that we do not at the same time open up organised crime, because we do so if we do not have controls. For that matter, Madam President, we also want to ensure that it is the companies that are really entitled to it and that need what is given these resources. Although these are considerable resources, even the state's treasure chest with taxpayers' money is not entirely unlimited.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-74	Madam President, I would like Troopers, like other inhabitants of Sweden, understand that they also need to take action. But the question is: Do they not also have the right to expect State aid when they have paid tax to the State for many years? Where's their safety net? Politics is moving forward and solving societal challenges, but this particular debate feels like it is moving in circles. During the debate on the amending budget, Åsa Westlund, Chairman of the Committee on Finance's Social Democrats, replied about the demand to speed up the bureaucratic processes – and we recognise the way the Minister for Economic Affairs responds here, Madam President: It opens the locks to criminals. Of course, taxpayers' money should not go to criminals. But instead of sacrificing the serious traders, as my colleague David Josefsson described so well here earlier, you can do as our economic-political spokesperson Elisabeth Svantesson proposes and proceed with rapid support and, at the same time, tighten the penalties for those who exploit the system. Madam President, I would like Swedish bureaucracy must not be involved in lowering Swedish companies. We must continue to save jobs, and we must ensure that companies that can and want to employ are not eradicated during the pandemic. The slowness of the government is today a danger to both jobs and businesses. We're doing our utmost, said Minister Baylan in an interview. I think it was in Agenda. During Minister Baylan's time as Minister of Energy, we often heard the phrase: This is for real. The destruction of the restaurant industry and the loss of jobs are real. The government does not seem to have quite understood this. The government's extremity has so far not been enough. Unfortunately, this is not good enough. This is not how we can control Sweden. Sweden needs a new government.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-81	Madam President, I would like I think that Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby hit the nail on the head when it comes to what this is really about, namely taking party political points. It belongs to when you are in opposition, but I do not think this is the time for it. I think it is better to try to do our utmost together to deal with this situation. We are not the only country in the world that has suffered this, either in terms of the number of deaths or the raging infection that we have seen, but vice versa. It is a global pandemic that is going on, and we, like many other countries, are trying with humility to do our utmost to save human lives, to reduce the suffering of people by preventing the infection as much as possible and, at the same time, to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. There are over 100 000 more unemployed today compared with March last year. There's too many of them. We are doing our utmost – I really mean it – both we and the authorities that are working on this. When you look at actual proposals from the Moderates you can see that even the Moderates have been quite serious about this. Now it sounds like we're very disagreeable, but basically we're not. Madam President, I would like We must not turn a blind eye to the fact that, when we make this kind of huge effort, there is always the risk of attracting rogue people and organised crime. Then you have to be able to follow it up, and that's exactly what we're doing. Madam President, I would like It has been eleven months since the pandemic broke out seriously. Of course, in many ways it is quite a trying time. But we're doing our utmost. There are also indications that many of the measures actually work. One of them is that the number of bankruptcies did not increase in 2020. They decreased compared to 2019. Is that enough? Absolutely not! We must continue to work and help each other during a very difficult time. I would welcome more cooperation.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-87	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that emergency aid is paid out urgently so that companies do not have to lay off staff. For large parts of society, the transmission of the Corona virus has presented considerable difficulties and challenges. And we are still in a very serious situation. Many industries and entrepreneurs have suffered financially as a result of this virus. The government has therefore presented a series of support measures that address various problems in order to create together the best possible conditions for the country's companies to overcome the negative economic consequences that we have seen from the ongoing pandemic. The measures include, inter alia, conversion aid, turnover aid for individual traders, short-term lay-off, liquidity aid in the form of deferred tax payments, credit guarantees such as Företagsakute n, relief of the unemployment insurance fund for entrepreneurs and temporary reduction of social security contributions and social security contributions. In connection with the increased spread of infection, the Government has announced that several of the support measures will be extended to support Swedish jobs and companies through the crisis. The government has also recently proposed a new closure aid and a new period of state aid during which local tenants will receive a discount on the rent. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it is the way in which the legislative process takes time, although we can see that it is going much faster now than it does otherwise. In addition, in many cases the EU Commission needs to be approved in order to be able to get the aid in place. In order for companies to cope with the acute liquidity shortage, we have therefore both extended and increased the liquidity support via the tax account. This allows companies to postpone tax for three additional accounting periods and to be deferred retroactively. Thus, companies can have three months of paid tax refunded already in February. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, important that existing aid should also be managed as quickly and efficiently as possible. At the same time, it has been shown that there are risks of crime linked to several of the aids. Of course, we must take action against this. Therefore, the government has announced that a wide range of authorities will receive additional funding to deal with the aid. In order to meet the large search pressure, the Swedish Agency for Growth has, for example, made staff reinforcements for the management of short-term support. The Agency also has ongoing dialogue with business organisations to inform and clarify guidance. I and the Council will continue to follow this closely and take the necessary measures to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship at a very difficult time.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-96	Madam President, I would like I have put the interpellation to the Minister for Economic Affairs about unacceptable and indeed unsustainable delays in providing crisis support to businesses in view of the desperate situation of small businesses in particular and all the jobs that are there. I myself represent one of the most small-scale regions in the country, Jönköping County. Madam President, I would like The increase in the spread of infection and the tightening of restrictions before Christmas have put already hard-pressed companies in a very difficult position. In addition, further far-reaching restrictions may be expected with the Pandemic Act coming into force on 15 February. And the responsible authorities are already beginning to talk about the risk of a third wave. This spring, companies had financial reserves, which today are often completely lacking. There is now an acute lack of liquidity. I think we need to be aware that those who are most affected at the moment are often small businesses. Small companies, such as an individual hotel or a small service company, do not have the same muscles as an industrial company. They are in the low-margin industry and often go in with personal capital to save their businesses. Some companies are even starting to lay off staff because they are no longer able to wait for emergency aid to be paid. Then the high unemployment rate will be even higher. If the processing times continue to be too long, several jobs, which could have been saved, will also be put at risk. Several companies testify that they have been waiting for more than six months on the green light from the Swedish Agency for Growth about continued short-term lay-off support. The government's proposal to extend short-term support is, frankly, under all criticism. First of all, it will not enter into force until 15 February, almost two months after its publication by the government. It is also longer than that before employers can start applying for additional support. Madam President, I would like In addition, the Swedish Agency for Growth will rebuild its IT systems and therefore expect to open for applications only five to eight weeks after the law is in place. The risk is that companies will at best receive their first payments around midsummer. It is unacceptable, but above all untenable for small businesses and jobs. I may have to repeat my main question, because it was not answered by the Minister. I also note that the answer given to me by the Minister was in principle exactly the same as that given to my colleague Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby in the debate before. I guess it serves as some kind of standard response. However, I do not think that is enough in times like these. That is why I think I need to repeat my question. The government, not the parliament, governs authorities. I would therefore like to know once again whether the government will act to eliminate the delays in crisis aid.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-103	Madam President, I would like As my colleague, Mats Green, said, the answer to his interpellation was almost exactly the same answer that I received on my interpellation. That is why I am taking the opportunity to ask a question to which I do not think I was given an answer. I will also read out a message that I received from a restaurant owner in Borås just before the debate started. When he found out that we were going to have this interpellation debate, he wrote: Thank you for the information! Our former well-stocked cashier is also running out. We really depend on answers to when the promised compensation can be paid. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry said in a previous post that bankruptcies did not increase in 2020. That's good. But the signals, calls and emails, from the industry that we or at least I now get to tell about a reality where the money is over, where there are no more employees to quit and where the rent still has to be paid in. Entrepreneurs are uncertain about when they can receive the promised support. The description of support and the desire to do the right thing is not enough in reality. There is now a crisis in the business. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the bankruptcy statistics for 2021 will be as positive as the bankruptcy statistics for 2020, unless the government's promised support soon reaches those who really need it and who really deserve it. Madam President, I would like I therefore ask my question to the Minister for Economic Affairs: how does the Minister for Economic Affairs intend to act in order for aid to reach those who need it and not least in time, before more jobs are lost and more businesses go bankrupt? I hope for all those who listen out there that the answer can be something more concrete than the answers I received in my previous interpellation debate.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-108	Madam President, I would like Ever since the pandemic broke out, the government's overall focus has basically been on the three things I talked about earlier. It is about saving human lives, reducing the spread of infection and curbing it and ensuring that the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country are mitigated. That has been the case, and it will continue to be until the pandemic is defeated. When this happens, none of us know. We all hope that the vaccination of our population will have the effect of returning to the new normal. We do not know when this will happen. Therefore, we will continue to work to present legislative proposals to the Riksdag. We have presented a number during the winter that the Riksdag has either already dealt with or processed. It is about the extension of these aids and also about the control of these aids. I don't really know what the Moderates are suggesting here from the speaker's seat. But I read what the Party leadership of the Moderates says: It should go to the companies that really need it, says Moderate's economic-political spokesperson Elisabeth Svantesson. She goes on to say that the government's own investigators have raised this problem, particularly with regard to short-term lay-offs, that there are criminals who are taking advantage of this crisis, and then we must put an end to it. That's exactly what we're doing. We have proposed a number of controls that require us to follow up so that the tax resources are right. Madam President, I would like The easiest thing would have been to have support that you just send out and then try to check afterwards. But the risk is that in the very case of those who are rogue, there is absolutely no way of getting this back. Madam President, I would like What are we doing, then, since I have been asked? We ensure that the Swedish Tax Agency and, above all, the Swedish Agency for Growth, which handles short-term lay-offs, can employ even more administrators. It has gone from zero last March to over 400 working only on short-term layoffs. We have provided them with resources, which Parliament has said yes to last week, so that they can hire additional administrators. We make sure to work with them on the regulations so that they do not become unnecessarily bureaucratic but that we still have controls. It sounds here from the speaker's chair that nothing has been paid for, for example, in the case of short-term lay-offs. To tell you the truth, over 30 billion – I think it is 32 billion – of taxpayers' money has gone to short-term lay-offs. This has been done precisely to support entrepreneurs and employees who are having a very tough time in the pandemic. In some cases they have had this since March last year. We will continue to do so. We also work intensively with weekly meetings with these authorities so that we can find solutions that make it even faster but that it still happens in a legally secure way. Madam President, I would like I hear a lot of criticism of the government. It is normal in a democracy that the opposition examines the government. But I have not yet heard a single concrete proposal from the Moderates. What I have to say is what the moderate party leadership has said about the need to strengthen controls and also to prosecute fraud. I fully agree with that.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-116	Madam President, I would like We Moderates have taken regular committee initiatives both in December and in January, not to mention all about last year, to ensure that emergency aid reaches more viable companies. The restrictions have been tightened and the situation has worsened ever since. Against this background, more needs to be done to save Swedish jobs and companies. We are not just talking about short-term lay-off aid. We are also talking about conversion and turnover aid to companies. We have different approaches to the design of the remuneration levels in these. Let us leave that discussion and focus on the fact that the support available comes to those for whom it is intended as quickly as possible, Madam President. The Minister here highlights the issue of risks of fraud and crime. Of course, this should always be suppressed regardless of what it is about. However, we would like to place the emphasis on more extensive post-controls, rather than as now a lot of administration in the application procedure. We have been able to note here that it is important that the money should come out to companies in order to avoid bankruptcies and redundancies. Bureaucracy must not prevent us from saving jobs and businesses. We have also put forward proposals for a number of measures and penalties in dealing with this. If the minister hasn't been up to date or updated on it, he can get the full list here. This concerns a number of punitive measures and the introduction of new criminal offences in terms of their handling. Madam President, I would like Let us not get away from the core issue. The overriding must still be that the aid decided should be released as quickly as possible to it and to those for whom it is intended. Otherwise, we would not have decided on it in the first place. We are talking here about wanting to take partisan political points for this. I can only say that this is not something that we have made up. It is something that we make ourselves alive when we meet companies digitally and otherwise have contact with them. If we do not agree that the support we have decided on should be given, we have problems. It is as the organisation Företagarnas CEO Günther Günther notes if they failed crisis support to companies in Sweden's Television the other week. The government has thrown out great ambitions in connection with the press conferences. But when you look at the outcome, it is often only crumbs left, says Entrepreneurs CEO Günther Günther. He questions whether the government wants to pay out all the support money at all. The question is whether the government has had the full ambition to get this money out. By then the authorities would probably have been instructed to work in a different way. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like My appeal and my question remain. Will the government instruct the authorities to work differently, or will it sit passively alongside? I would like an answer to that, Madam President.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-125	Madam President, I would like I have always been convinced in my political commitment that the vast majority, including political opponents, want well. This is also true in this case. I don't doubt the commitment. Rather, it is a fact that in almost all these measures we have agreed. In one respect, it differed. It was when the Moderates in the spring proposed to have general support of 100 billion per year regardless of how much companies were affected by the crisis. We didn't agree on that. But since then thank God the Moderates have also changed their minds. Like us, they want to direct aid to those who need it and are affected by the crisis. Madam President, I would like Today, unlike last spring, there are a great many companies in the service sector, the tourism industry, the cultural sphere, the travel industry and more that are most affected. Perhaps it should be the case in the democratic dialogue that the opposition thinks it is always going too slow. However, we are well aware that it usually takes considerably longer time to draw up laws and considerably longer time to draw up budgets. I think we're working faster as a government than any other government has. Is that enough? No, I am the first to agree that with the rapid development of a pandemic and its effects – not only on our country but also globally – we would like to be able to work even faster. But we have the processes we have; we have the legislative process we have, and we have the relations between the government and the authorities we have. Will we do further things? Yes, I am not ruling out that we will make changes in aid as the pandemic progresses. But we are also doing our utmost, together with the authorities, to be able to support companies as quickly as possible. Some of this we do not own ourselves, and so does Mats Green. A great deal of this aid must be approved by the European Union before it can be moved forward, and that would have been the case regardless of the government, since Sweden is a member of the European Union. Having said that, we will do our utmost to ensure that we support jobs and entrepreneurship. I also hear criticism from entrepreneurs, even in direct talks, that it has not been enough and that we would like to have more. I fully understand this at this difficult time, but yet we must see that last year tens and tens of billions of taxpayers' money were paid out to support Swedish companies and jobs. We also see that the impact on companies is that the number of bankruptcies fell in 2020 compared to 2019 – although it is different in different industries, which I am the first to sign on. What does it look like for 2021? Yes, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby was absolutely sure that it would get even worse in 2021. We must do our utmost not to do so. Do we have too many unemployed people? Yes, absolutely! We have 100,000 unemployed, and a great many have also become unemployed in industries that tend to serve as entry-level jobs for young and newcomers. It is clear that we should continue to do our best to support the companies and get support once the Riksdag has decided on them. Then we also need to do our utmost with the companies to restart the country, because with all due respect: we will do our utmost to support the companies, but in the long run it is not support that will save the day but that we can get the business started when we have a vaccinated population.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-132	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for the Minister's standard speech, regardless of the question: there is much to comment on here. Among other things, we have had to force the government to make the proposals in relation to 60% of what the government has proposed. After all, we have obtained a majority in the Swedish parliament to push through things that the government then, basically screaming, has had to implement afterwards. That's one thing you could say. The second is that it has gone very quickly. No, we decided on the possibility of new pandemic laws before the summer. It took a while at the beginning of this year to arrive. I think we should be aware of that, Madam President. As if it were not enough, we can see that it was clearly a shock to the Prime Minister that a second wave could come. That's what he said to Swedish Television. I am not referring to any brilliant spectacle in us Moderates, but I can say that he could simply have read our draft budget a few months earlier to see that there was probably a very great risk of a second wave. In addition, it was not just our draft budget, but it was a great risk that the rest of the world was counting on. I would also like to comment on the Swedish Agency for Growth and the fact that the agency is now hiring 400 new administrators. It is just sad that it should now take up to six months, or at least two months, from the fact that the government has clarified the measure before it receives the support, despite the fact that in the spring – as the Minister said – one could receive short-term support after eight days. It is totally unacceptable, and it is untenable. Once again, we need to agree that what we have decided on, regardless of who has proposed what, will benefit the companies. I would like to conclude by quoting a restaurant entrepreneur at home in Jönköping. He says: Small entrepreneurs do not have an admin service, but there is the CEO himself with the applications. That's it. You need to step up and steer your government, Ibrahim Baylan!
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-137	Madam President, I would like The question is about a discussion that we have had on a number of occasions because these are important issues. It's about subsidies, and right now, above all, support for restaurants and hotels, let me say, because there too the situation is very difficult. As someone said here before, this is for real, and that is why, of course, it is also what we are working on. That you can't ask the same question and get different answers in a situation where we do our utmost to make sure that we support our companies – and where we work as quickly as any government can do within the framework that all governments have to relate to – I think even Mats Green really understands, although it's not his role to pay tribute to the government. I understand that, too. Madam President, I would like We're in a very difficult position. It is difficult for the country, of course, and I think it is difficult for our people. Like the people of many other countries, you would be more than happy to go back to a normal situation. We're not there yet. Our hope is that we will be able to get there with vaccination, but in the meantime we will have to maintain a number of restrictions to ensure that the infection is stopped and that human lives are saved. At the same time, as I said earlier, we have put forward proposals that are being dealt with or are about to be dealt with by Parliament. They are about expanding the support programmes that we have used throughout the pandemic – short-term lay-offs, conversion aid, turnover support, etc. Of course, we will do our utmost to get them out. There is no one who has any other interest than that this money should go out to the companies that are both entitled to them and that need them in a very desperate situation. But I also think the following is extremely important: when we use so much of our common tax money, the Swedish people have the right to expect that the money actually goes to those who should have it. They should not end up in the pocket of scammers or, for that matter, organised crime.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-141	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damsgaard has asked me whether I am prepared to work for the transfer of responsibility for closed youth care to the Prison Service and whether I think it is appropriate for persons sentenced to closed juvenile care for serious crime to be placed in the same institutions as young people who have been placed by the LVU as well as what decisions I am prepared to make regarding this. In Sweden we have a long tradition of not condemning people under 18 years of age to prison. D a closed youth care system should be strengthened and improved. In particular, youth homes already have treatment methods and programmes that are particularly suitable for young people, and there is also a well-functioning school activity. I, like Mikael Damsgaard, find it inappropriate that young people who have been sentenced to inpatient youth care should be in the same department as young people cared for according to LVU. The government's assessment is that a separation between LVU and LSU youth provides increased opportunities for a level of safety that is adapted to the respective investment base and leads to increased security for both young people and staff. In the light of this, last October the Government instructed the State Department Board, Sis, to plan for the establishment of differentiated security classes within the agency's special youth home and to take security-enhancing action in the departments where sentenced high-risk young people are cared for. As a consequence of the government mission, the Director-General of Sis took a decision on 18 January this year that LSU and LVU departments should be divided throughout Sis and that youth homes in Södertälje and Kalix should have a higher level of security than previously in Sis. The security-enhancing work at Sis has thus begun, and we will carefully follow this work. Safety in S ice is extremely important. The violence capital we see in society and among some gang-criminal youths today we did not see 10 to 15 years ago. The Government intends to shortly set up an investigation that will review the regulatory framework for the closed youth care system. Care periods must correspond to the seriousness of crime and the possibilities for support and control measures following the release from youth homes need to be improved. The recidivism rate should be reduced, and the environment of the special youth homes should be safe and secure for both young people and staff.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-144	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank the Government for its answer. This interpellation was prompted by another escape from the closed juvenile care. This time it was in my county of Västmanland. On Tuesday 12 January, a young man from Sundbo's youth home escaped from Fagersta. According to media data, the person in question is sentenced to inpatient juvenile care for two cases of attempted murder, and this should also have been the third time the person escaped. This example may possibly be rejected by its anecdotal nature. Policy decisions should not reasonably be based on anecdotes. Unfortunately, however, this example clearly pinpoints the problems facing the National Board of Institutional Affairs and the closed youth care system. What you need to be clear about when you talk about the closed juvenile care system is that it is about people who have been convicted of very serious crimes. It's about robbery, aggravated assault and rape. In some cases, it's murder or attempted murder. Those serving the sentence of closed juvenile care were certainly minors at the time of the crime, but two thirds of those who are currently placed by the National Board of Institutional Affairs to serve this sentence have turned 18 and are of age. Being sentenced to closed juvenile care is, of course, a punishment for the individual. But it is also an opportunity. It is an opportunity to cut ties to crime at home, to complete their schooling and to be free from drugs. Of course, a prerequisite for a well-functioning care for young people who have been sentenced to inpatient youth care is that they are in place where the care is to be carried out. It is then worrying that only last year 26 people escaped from closed youth services, some of which were regular discharges. We see a social development where crime is creeping further and further down in the ages. Younger and younger children are being recruited by criminal gangs, where minors sometimes also account for very serious crime. When gang crime enters youth homes, a completely different focus on security is needed from what has been the case so far. The Moderates have therefore proposed that the Prison Service should take over responsibility for the closed youth care and that the activities should be carried out by a special unit within the Prison Service. We have chosen to call it special juvenile prisons. It may sound provocative to some, but it puts its finger on what it is about: safe institutions, adapted to young people, sometimes minors, where there are the conditions for carrying out the care, treatment and education necessary for these young people, who have been convicted of serious crimes, to be able to re-integrate into society. The government announced a few weeks ago that a new investigation into the closed youth care system will be set up. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs if she is prepared to work to ensure that the investigation also looks at the issue of the organisational residence of closed youth services.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-153	Madam President, I would like I believe that Mikael Damsgaard is well aware that this investigation is the responsibility of Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. I am not going to develop the directives and how they work with them, but I am going to put that question to the Minister for Justice. I hope that this is understandable and that we can focus on the issue of the work of the State Department Board and the security-enhancing measures that have been taken and those that need to be taken further. I would like to emphasise that we largely agree on what Mr Mikael describes. We have an escalating situation with regard to juvenile delinquency. It crawls further down in the ages. This also means that it is not possible in all parts to operate on the State Department Board in the same way as it did one or two decades ago. On the other hand, there is a long experience of meeting young people. Let me also say that in terms of security, competence and the absence of deviations – i.e. leaving the institutions – it could be about both those serving inpatient youth care under the LSU and those who are forced and thus sitting there with the LVU. The safety-enhancing work is very important for Sis to carry out, no matter where you think an LSU youth should serve their sentence. Mikael Damsgaard talks about juvenile prisons. Whether it is called a youth prison, a prison or an institution with very high security, I think that anyone who visits Södertälje or Kalix today, and especially when additional measures have been taken with perimeter protection and so on, feels that it is not so much in terms of external or security that differs from prison care. One thing that is different and which I do not think you should underestimate is the content of the business. From the Prison Service you describe yourself that you are not used to caring for, treating and meeting so young people. I also think there is something in the fact that at the age of 15, 16 or 17 you are not in closed prisons under the supervision of the Prison Service. Safety must, of course, be enormous. Of course, we should not have either discharges or deviations to the extent we have seen. Preferably it should be as close to zero as it can be. To conduct a functioning schooling, a treatment that is adapted to young people and possible care is, however, something that I believe the State Department Board has good conditions for, but one must get even better. It is both about safety-enhancing efforts and about competence-enhancing efforts in general in the agency. Without going too far into the directives, I would also like to say that something that has been communicated to the LSU investigation applies to this with age. If the sentenced person has reached the age of 18 when the sentence is due, the possibility of placing the person in prison is already available today. Should you perhaps do so to a greater extent? You should not take the whole group from 15 years onwards, but look especially at those who get their judgment after it is 18 years old. My answer, of course, is that I am not satisfied with the fact that we have escapes or deviations. It is also very unsafe to work if you feel that the security efforts are not optimal. Then you just don't feel safe at your workplace. This is particularly important for the staff working there. This with security-enhancing efforts is a work carried out very intensively within the framework of Sis, and I think that the issue of having a different name for the institutions in Södertälje and Kalix with even more security-enhancing efforts is probably more semantics.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-161	Madam President, I would like Of course, moving the answer to the closed juvenile care system from Sis to the Prison Service does not solve all the problems in itself. It is also a change that needs to be properly investigated, and a reorganisation also needs to be preceded by careful planning. Nevertheless, it is also a question of taking a direction. I see that there are quite different logics between conducting an activity based in LVU and LVM and LSU, where the persons have been convicted of crime. It is clear that the security of Sis youth home today is not good enough for the clientele of grossly criminal young people sentenced to closed youth care. The escapes I mentioned in my previous speech are an example of this. Another sign of the gravity of the situation is the increasing number of incidents of threats and violence in the institutions. In the Agency's annual report, it can be seen that the number of incidents involving threats and violence against personnel increased by 22 per cent between 2017 and 2019 and that the number of incidents involving threats and violence between young people during the same period increased by 48 per cent. Although the National Board of Institutional Affairs has begun work to strengthen the security of youth homes, I believe that it is still doubtful whether the National Board of Institutional Affairs should be the authority responsible for the implementation of criminal sanctions for serious crime in the long term. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the work that Mr Sis has now begun is important. Several measures, such as those at the two institutions with increased security, are in the desired direction and could also form the building blocks of a future unit within the Prison Service. It is also clear that security and security, including in the part of the business that has worked with LVU-placed young people, need to be strengthened, as was also the case with the Government. It is important that this work continues in parallel with the investigation of closed youth care and its organisational residence. Even among LVU young people there are many who are placed because of criminal lifestyles. Nevertheless, I think it is doubtful that young people are placed together according to LVU and LSU respectively. These are very different bases. I therefore welcome the Authority's decision that young people sentenced to closed youth care should not be cared for in the same departments as those located under LVU. Nevertheless, I wonder whether it is appropriate for LSU – convicted and LVU-placed people to be cared for in the same institutions at all. A supplementary question is therefore whether the Government considers it sufficient that young people in the two different categories should be cared for in different departments or whether they should also be cared for in completely different institutions.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-170	Madam President, I would like I don't think it sounds like Mikael Damsgaard and I are so far apart. Sometimes I think it is more about the information from the National Board of Institutional Affairs and perhaps also, as I described earlier, what one sees in terms of youth prison versus institution or the National Board of Institutional Affairs. With regard to the State Department Board, the intention is that there should be activities in Södertälje and Kalix that are only LSU activities. This means that you will not meet LVU's young people there. However, it is important to say that there can be no similarity between discrepancies or incidents in any of the institutions, which we are reading about, and that the reason for someone sitting there is that he has committed a crime. There are incidents of threats and violence, as well as concern and insecurity among staff, and there is a need in institutional activities to increase security and competence to know how to act in different situations and how to respond to violent young people. Of course, there are a lot more people who are in an institution on LVU grounds because they represent a larger proportion. But a large part is also there on LSU grounds; it is important to say. This work should be done with concern for all the young people who are there. Many of them are difficult to care for and treat. It is important to have a dialogue, not least when it comes to – and the investigation should also look at – what happens after you have served your LSU time. There is a different form of parole and follow-up from the Prison Service. We also want this to be seen within the framework of the State Department Board: to look at an equivalent of conditional sentence. This should certainly not be underestimated. There are far too many who, after their release, find themselves in the local or parental home again and can resume their lives. This does not really have to do with Sis, it has to do with the whole chain. We need to make sure that the conditions are improved. I would also like to say – not to Mikael Damsgaard, because he knows it, but possibly to others who listen – that everyone who is in a Sis institution does it because it requires a locked department. Society has simply tried to provide care and treatment in other ways and to break a behavior that may be destructive. So it is always a question of locked institutions. Now the Director General says very clearly how the work is supposed to be done. You should have LSU young people in Södertälje and Kalix. There, security will be higher than it is anywhere in Sis today. That is why I say that if you look for a higher level of safety, I think you will actually be able to get it. The question is how best we ensure that all young people who are with Sis, not least those who have been convicted of serious crimes – otherwise they would not be in a Sis institution – a better treatment and care so that they can cope with school and so on and thus to a lesser extent relapse into crime. This must be the purpose, whether in the Prison Service or in Sis. At present, the assessment is that Sis has a completely different experience and knowledge of this. Now they can also increase their level of security and make sure that they – not only in the institutions I mentioned, but also in other activities – care, treat and manage LVU young people and LSU young people in different departments and individually. I think that's very wise. In the past, the need for this was not the same, but as I said: it is obvious that crime is creeping down the age range, and it is often very raw. This is required both for young people to have the best possible conditions when the time at the Sis institution expires and for the staff to feel safe, want to work and be able to do a good job at Sis.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-180	Madam President, I would like It is very positive that these two institutions are being set up with increased security and become exclusive LSU institutions. However, the question remains: are the LSU young people to be completely separated from the LVU young people? This is not how I interpret the answer, but I interpret it as having two institutions with a higher degree of certainty, but that there may also be LSU young people in departments in other institutions. The fact that the State Departmental Board is facing significant challenges cannot be stressed enough; this debate is not least clear. This applies, in particular, to closed youth services. Perhaps it is shared responsibility between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Government Office, and between the Social Affairs Committee and the Parliamentary Justice Committee, an explanation of what could be described as a lack of political custody of the agency and its activities. A shared responsibility becomes no one's responsibility so easily. It is positive that the government is now setting up an investigation to review the closed youth care system. However, the fact that the investigator in the directives is not asked either to propose a maximum height for closed youth care or to investigate the central question of which authority is best placed to carry out closed youth care is difficult for me to understand. At least I would like to thank Lena Hallengren for an interesting debate and look forward to continuing to discuss how the closed youth care system and Sis activities can develop.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mikael Damsgaard, for an important debate and a pleasant tone! It is a challenge, not least for the State Departmental Board but also for the Prison Service and for society as a whole, how to deal with the group of young people with a huge amount of violent capital. There is no doubt that this has crept down in the ages. I'm not gonna ask you a question, because Mikael Damsgaard can't answer right now. But it is one thing to talk about that they are 18 years old and in the border country, but we are still talking about everything from the fact that you become a criminal at 15 years old. In any case, the government believes that 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds do not go into the Prison Service and sit with adult convicted criminals. On the other hand, we want the LSU investigation to look at the group that is so large in the border country that you have turned 18 when the judgment is due to be handled by Sis or if you are to be judged as an adult and thus could serve your sentence in the Prison Service. It is an important work that the National Board of Institutional Affairs has begun and been doing for some time. The State Departmental Board and the Prison Service work closely together to ensure that the Prison Service contributes with the knowledge that is available in the security-enhancing work. But when it comes to meeting children and, in this case, perhaps especially young adults, the State Department Board has much longer experience and elaborate processes, programs, treatments and so on and not least a school activity that is well-developed for that group. This is absolutely crucial – if they fail to break their destructive behaviour, we risk, of course, relapse when they then leave the institution. The fact that responsibility is shared between social and justice both in parliament and government offices and perhaps elsewhere should not be seen as being nobody's responsibility. I think we all take very much responsibility. There is a great deal of interest and commitment to the State Department Board. It is an important work that they are doing, which I also believe will produce results.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-189	Madam President, I would like Clara Aranda has asked me whether I intend to work towards the complete phasing-out of tension as a coercive measure in psychiatry in the long term. At the outset, I would like to say that psychiatric care is based on the same values as the care given voluntarily, e n humanistic view of human beings, where the consideration of the one being cared for is and should be guiding. Patients who are cared for under one of the coercive laws are entitled to the same extent as in any other health care to good care based on respect for the self-determination and integrity of patients. Care and treatment should, as far as possible, be designed and carried out in consultation with the patient. Restrictions on constitutional and convention-protected rights and freedoms may, as a general rule, only be limited by law. For this reason, the law on coercion clearly sets out the specific coercive measures – in addition to the detention itself – that may be taken and the conditions under which this may be done. The point of departure for the legislator is that these coercive measures can only be used when there is no other way out in a truly difficult situation. In the case of belt clamping, there shall be a risk of serious physical injury and the measure shall never be used for punishment purposes. I share Mrs ClaraAranda view that, compared with other coercive measures, current tension is an extremely far-reaching interference in the legal sphere of the individual and that its application should be restricted as far as possible. Against this background, in 2016, the Government, by means of additional directives, mandated the National Coordinator in the field of Mental Health to review coercive measures against children and assess whether certain coercive measures should be completely abolished. The investigation concluded that there may be situations where coercive measures such as belt clamping are necessary but that the use of coercion should be limited to situations where it is necessary to save lives or provide adequate care and treatment. The assessment was based on a solid investigation work where the investigation has, among other things, linked to a reference group of children and young people who have themselves been enforced and strapped with a belt. The study's proposal prompted the legislative changes that Clara Aranda mentions in her question. I share the opinion of the investigation that in extreme exceptional cases, both for children and adults, there may be situations where a tension needs to be used, for example, to save lives. I do not, therefore, intend at the moment to promote the complete phasing out of clamping. However, I fully agree with the investigation that strong efforts need to be made to systematically control the use of coercive measures and that initiatives are needed to develop knowledge, quality and competence in psychiatric care. Overall, this is the prerequisite for significantly reducing the use of coercive measures. The Government allocates approximately SEK 1.7 billion to municipalities and regions in 2021 through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. These funds can be used to strengthen and develop coercive care and strengthen systematic quality work in order to reduce coercive measures. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to stimulate and strengthen the national work on skills and quality development in psychiatric care for children. The mission aims, among other things, to reduce the number of coercive measures.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! It addresses attachment as a coercive measure, an issue that I believe needs to be highlighted in the light and discussed more. To briefly describe what clamping is: It is thus a coercive measure used in psychiatry and also called belting or belting. This means that the patient is strapped against his will. This usually occurs in connection with coercive medication, where preparations that are sedative, anti-anxiety or antipsychotic are inserted. The Law on Psychiatric Obsessive Care states that compulsory care should be a final measure when all other alternatives have been exhausted. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's patient register, clamping was used as a coercive measure in Swedish psychiatry on 3,820 occasions in 2019, and it was 1,348 patients who were subjected to this coercive measure. Last year, the government chose to implement certain amendments to the Law on Psychological Obsessive Care and the Law on Legal Psychiatric Care. With regard specifically to belting as a measure for forced care of children and young people, the Government's proposal and amendment constituted a separate regulation of the coercive measure for persons under the age of 18. It was thus claimed that belt clamping should only take place in exceptional cases and for a maximum of one hour instead of four hours, as has been the case before. In addition, IVO should be informed when a patient under the age of 18 has been subjected to coercive measures on more than three occasions during the care period. These changes are moving in the right direction, but they are far from sufficient. A vulnerable child who is seriously ill can continue to be strapped to his will for an hour. Under fear, anxiety, panic and death anxiety is a minute to consider as an eternity. Children should not be treated in this way. Children have the right to care services that treat and make a difference. If this coercive measure can be shortened to one hour, it can also be removed altogether. It was also the strong opinion of the Swedish Democrats when the matter was handled by the Riksdag. In his reply, the Minister of Social Affairs refers to the investigation's assessment that there may be extreme situations where tension needs to be used to save lives, for example. I myself have taken note of cases where the use of belting has been completed and replaced with, among other things, conversation and therapy, cases where, thanks to this, severely ill patients have slowly but surely got their lives back because the care has chosen instead to work with preventive measures. So stopping belting and starting serious treatment has been crucial in these cases. I therefore do not share the view that clamping is the only possible solution for saving lives – nor in extreme situations. Having received a clear answer to the question I put in my interpellation, I have a supplementary question to the Minister. If it is not up to us to start phasing out clamping as a coercive measure at the moment, which is what emerges from the response to the interpellation, I would instead like an answer if the Minister sees the need for a phasing-out in the long term. Is there anything that might come up in the future?
i-CPhr7hFVSFByoDBZ6Z9mTm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Clara Aranda, for further discussion! Clara Aranda now mentioned precisely the bill decided by the Riksdag barely a year ago, which specifically focused on coercive measures for persons under the age of 18. It tightened up the possibility of a coercive measure but also shortened the time it may last. So far, this concerns only children up to the age of 18, but it is clear that it is crucial that we also improve the situation of adult patients. We will have reason to come back to that, is a somewhat semi-open answer to that question. I would really like to emphasise to anyone who listens that this is in the context of compulsory care. There are no coercive measures that can be taken in other contexts or in ordinary care; it is in the context of compulsory care. Clara Aranda asks the follow-up question if one can consider phasing this out in the long term. I am not saying that it could not be phased out in the long term. I believe that many would like to achieve this. What I said was that, at the moment, we do not intend to change the legislation so that the possibility does not exist, but, of course, work is needed to approach it. I would also like to say something about why this is being done. For example, it is a matter of saving lives. Someone who refuses to eat must be given a probe, for example. There are simply situations in which, at present, one does not see how else one could save lives, which is why someone is being forced into custody. This is required because they do not receive care in any other way. We have an example. I don't know if there's any more; maybe Clara Aranda knows about that. Iceland is a country that has tried to pattern clamping. Not only have they tried but they have decided to do so. But what can be seen in Iceland so far is, as I understand it, that other coercive measures are then increasing. It could be some kind of coercive medication. It's about restraint. Of course, you can always discuss tension versus being held by people, what it does for both the person being enforced and the staff and how possible it is for the staff to do so. It's not often violent situations. How to deal with this? I agree very much with Clara Aranda, and it is my attitude in general, that with knowledge you can meet many challenges in society much better. It is important not least to meet people who are sick. I am not going to draw any other parallels, but we have talked, for example, about not having coercive measures in dementia care because you go so far with knowledge to meet a person. As I said, in the long term I hope, of course, that we can minimise coercive measures a little more generally, but at present I am not prepared to change the legislation. However, it is incredibly important, I think, that we take advantage of the opportunities that we will have when it comes to limiting, for example, tension. This is not just about children up to the age of 18, but we will be able to do this for people of other ages as well.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-213	Madam President and the Government. I was going to take the opportunity to lift a case from reality, a case that has been mediated and that has really touched me. In mid-May last year, a 26-year-old woman, who has previously been diagnosed with autism and anorexia, will be enrolled in the adult psychiatric ward 5 in Lund. Here is a regional eating disorder center, where the most difficult anorexia cases in Skåne are referred. The young woman, who weighs only 28.7 kilos, is being enforced. It is a decision taken by the Administrative Court and a measure considered to be the difference between life and death for the sick woman. On the ground, it is a matter of lifting the hunger of the self, and the doctors responsible give this the highest priority. It is a strict nutrition schedule to be followed and a pre-determined number of calories to be taken every day. The meals, which are to be consumed in the department, take place on time. The patient who has not been able to eat his or her food receives the portion left behind via the probe. If this is not done voluntarily, it is done by coercion. This woman's autism means that the woman needs clear instructions and time to absorb the slightest change. Instead of receiving appropriate care that takes this into account, however, the woman is strapped to a belt bed and forced to feed on the first day. It will be the beginning of several months of coercive measures. From May to October, the sick and vulnerable woman is armed 54 times. This is terrible. In my view, it is also the very opposite of a humanistic view of humanity and good care based on respect for the self-determination and integrity of the patient. This should not occur in Swedish psychiatry. Madam President, I would like Before the pandemic, I was just visiting psychiatry in Lund. The reason for that was my interest in user-controlled insertion. User-driven deployment has proved to be a very successful way of working. The form of care means that people with serious self-harm or suicidal thoughts have the opportunity to intrude themselves if necessary. So there will be a kind of self-chosen inpatient care. Basically, it is about giving patients influence over their own care. A lot of responsibility is passed on to the patients themselves. So this is about very seriously ill patients. Therefore, user-controlled intervention is a clear example of the importance of promoting autonomy and empowerment in treatment in psychiatry. I refer to this particular example, because it is contrary to all that tension by force means. There is a clear need to develop forced care further and to actually embrace studies and new knowledge in order to develop and not least modernize psychiatric care. To phase out clamping should be a step in that direction.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-222	Madam President, I would like This is a situation, I think, which of course affects all of us. The fact that we should have coercive methods at all does not seem like the ideal, but the situation that exists sometimes forces it out. We have wanted to limit it, check it, follow it up and monitor it for children and young people up to the age of 18. We also need to move forward in the case of adults. I also think it is important to say, especially in the case of clamping, that it is continuous supervision of health professionals. There are demands that make sure that these are absolutely not measures that you take if you have not tried other things at your disposal. It shall be proportionate to the purpose of the measure itself. It can only be used when patients are at risk of harming themselves or others. It must certainly not be a question of punishment. It should not only be the supervision of health professionals at the moment, but we should also have effective supervision on the part of society, so that we know what it looks like. When are coercive measures used, in what context? Is regulation followed? With the exception of medication, clamping is the most common coercive measure. It certainly calls for reflection. I'll admit I was a little surprised when I heard this earlier, because I didn't think it was that common. Then it should be said that there are likely to be a small number – perhaps in the situations described by Clara Aranda – who are subject to several of these coercive measures and attachments. All the more important, I would say, is that we are working broadly and that we are not just changing legislation. It's about us working on perhaps increasing the staff. There may be other skills, so it can be about the staff that exist getting skills development. Much is about, as I mentioned earlier, meeting this with knowledge. It may also involve building more efficient premises. It may not be in all contexts that the premises are optimally designed. It is about the fact that there really is a health and treatment content that is adequate. Of course, it needs to be designed very specifically according to the individual's needs. Not least, there need to be activities available to counteract passivation. There is much that needs to be done in order for the time for forced treatment to be as short as possible and to have the effect that is the purpose. The purpose is to save the lives of individuals and to make them feel better. You're supposed to turn a development around. Work with children and young people is under way, and it really needs to continue. I also see that the group of adults must get the corresponding improvement.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-228	Madam President, I would like We were a little into how Iceland handles this. If we look at the world around us, we see that there are actually countries that do not strap on mentally ill patients with a belt. That's how much we know. Consider Iceland, for example. There they stopped fastening mentally ill already in 1932. Instead, the focus is on using methods where conversation and human contact are primarily used to calm the patient. As the Minister of Social Affairs raised, it is about physical grip and restraint, but it is also about talking to reassure the patient. There the staff are trained in teams, and they may learn a completely different way of dealing with violent and dangerous patients. There are therefore examples of other methods that I think are much more humane, where the patient does not need to be completely out ofcapacitated or completely extradited. If the government now believes that it is an improvement in the implementation of re-regulations which mean that clamping should take place to a lesser extent and for a shorter period of time, a total phasing out of the coercive measure must reasonably be the absolute best solution in the long term. Stigmatisation and ignorance unfortunately leave room for mentally ill individuals not to be treated and treated in the same way as people with physical diseases. This also applies to health care, and this is shown not least in old-fashioned methods that have no place in psychiatry. If we want to make a difference, we can do the same. I hope that this important issue can get the focus it deserves. Having said that, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-233	Madam President, I would like Then I say that it may well be that we have the possibility of phasing out clamps in the longer term. I think we should also look at coercive measures in general, how they are actually used. I lifted Iceland before, because I have not understood that so many countries have managed to phase this out. There may have been differences, and perhaps this is an objective. But there is concern, if you have this as a goal and you are too quick, that you are overmedicating and that you are even doing it as a preventive measure, so that there is no need to hold on or fasten. It is also about what it can lead to when you are held by another individual or several other individuals. What can this mean in terms of increased risk of injury? It is also about the integrity aspect. I think it's a touch of comparable. We do not want to replace a coercive measure with another measure which may not have a better effect. We really need to face this, not least with increased knowledge. I'm very much in agreement with Clara Aranda on that. I believe that this is true in the vast majority of contexts: that knowledge and increased competence go very far. We have not talked much about the staff working in these activities now, but it is clear that it is incredibly challenging to work in an activity with people who need to be enforced in order for their own lives to be saved. Staff must have the right conditions to both be able to handle the situation that arises and have the knowledge needed to provide the treatment needed to reverse this situation. Then I can only conclude by emphasising that, when it comes to physical diseases and diagnoses for a long time, we have handled them in a different way and mental diseases and diagnoses in a different way. If we can break the stigma and make sure that we do not make a big difference but that it is actually about care for different diagnoses, it is certainly excellent. Thank you very much for a good debate.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-240	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl has asked me if I can tell the Gothenburgers and the residents of the crane municipalities that the congestion tax in Gothenburg ends in 2047. Jimmy Ståhl has also asked me if I and the government have considered charging user charges for new infrastructure instead of congestion taxes, as is currently financed by Sundsvall Bridge and Motala Bridge and frequently used in Norway. Infrastructure charges and congestion taxes have partly different objectives. Infrastructure charges have a direct purpose to finance the construction of a specific new bridge, road or tunnel. The congestion tax is mainly used to prevent congestion. As far as the congestion tax in Gothenburg is concerned, it is therefore not only to contribute to the financing of the Western Swedish package. The main aim is to improve accessibility and the environment. The assessment made in 2047 is a matter for future decision-makers.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-243	Madam President, I would like We have here today received Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson's response regarding congestion tax versus user charges. As a Gothenburger it is known that the congestion tax has not been popular. The congestion tax in Gothenburg is an excise duty on road traffic which is levied on passages into and out of a defined geographical area. The main purpose of the congestion tax is said to be to reduce the string of vehicles in Gothenburg, for example, and to improve accessibility – you hear: improve accessibility – while improving the environment in the inner city and, of course, financing the West Link. In Gothenburg there has been a massive resistance to the congestion tax. We had a referendum where the 'no' side won by 56.8% over the 'yes' side, which received 43.2%. Voting turnout was quite high; it was 72.84 per cent. However, the Gothenburgers did not get their way. The congestion tax was pushed through and is today a fact for a long time. Regarding the purpose of the congestion tax, I can read in Magdalena Andersson's reply that a major aim is to improve accessibility and the environment. Has the congestion tax improved accessibility in Gothenburg? No, not at all. The congestion tax, on the other hand, has placed a financial burden on the Gothenburgers. My question is, in fact, why is congestion built into the cities rather than building it out with ringways. Is it just to justify the congestion tax? Gothenburg is a thoroughfare city for people who are going to Malmö and Oslo. These are forced to drive through Gothenburg and thus pay congestion tax. I cannot understand in my wildest imagination why you do not take this money and try to do as the main purpose says and improve accessibility and also the environment by making ring trails in Gothenburg. Instead, car lanes are removed, although sometimes for the benefit of public transport, which is great. But it does not improve the accessibility of motorists. It's also a question: should we have a tax that burdens motorists and makes accessibility more difficult – and that you also have to pay for it? It's a little absurd. Therefore, it would have been interesting to hear what Magdalena Andersson thinks about the fact that cities that have received congestion taxes, such as Gothenburg and Stockholm, do not improve for motorists but actually counteract accessibility and burden the environment. The more you stand in crowds, the more exhaust you spit out. Of course, there are great advantages to some of the buildings. For example, the Marieholm tunnel is great, and we definitely need a new river connection. However, as the Hisings Bridge is built, it becomes an obstacle to maritime public transport. I would very much like to have an answer to this.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-253	Madam President, I would like The background to the congestion tax in Gothenburg is that Gothenburg City Council took a decision in principle in January 2010 that they wanted a congestion tax in Gothenburg. After a petition, the Riksdag then decided to introduce this kind of congestion tax. Then, as Jimmy Ståhl says, there was a referendum in Gothenburg. The local decision was not to go ahead with it, but it was decided that the congestion tax in Gothenburg would remain. What was the reason for that decision I think there are others who can answer better than me. The Western Swedish package is partly financed by this congestion tax, and it is clear that both the Marieholm tunnel and Hisings bridge are infrastructure projects that will make it easier for motorists in Gothenburg. The idea of the west link is to increase the possibilities for rail transport and thus also to prevent congestion on the roads in Gothenburg.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-256	Madam President, I would like I'm not under the impression that infrastructure projects are needed. Infrastructure is one of the most important parts we have in society to transport people to and from work and school and when they are going shopping, for example. We need all kinds of infrastructure. Gothenburg has been lagging behind for a long time, and that is why, in my question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, I question why people choose to have congestion tax. Now I am well aware that Gothenburg itself asked for this solution, although the citizens of Gothenburg were against it. The Marieholm tunnel is of the utmost importance because the Tingstad tunnel was too narrow when it was built. It wasn't big enough. Hisingsbron is needed because the Götaälvbron bridge is raging – perhaps not literally, but it needs to be replaced very soon. When the congestion tax was introduced, we who live in Hisings Backa had crowd tax cameras everywhere. It was not possible to back the car out of the parking lot before you went on a fee, and it was very unfair. After all, we have now managed to get through a Backa exception, for which we live in Backa are very grateful. At the same time, it has been estimated that in 2047 the congestion tax will have financed both the train tunnel, which is called the West Link, the Marieholm Tunnel, the Hisings Bridge and perhaps some other projects. In her reply, Magdalena Andersson says that the decision-makers of the future should be allowed to assess whether to remove the congestion tax or not. My question to the Minister for Finance is whether it is about Gothenburg's decision-makers, or whether it is in Parliament that the decision should be taken. I must be able to go back to Gothenburg and talk to voters and others who are annoyed by the congestion tax and give them advice on how to act. If you do not build out the congestion, yet you are obliged to charge a congestion tax, you must be able to act. I know that the package is in full swing and that the economy is needed. Then you can think what you want about some parts, but it's a package, so it's not much to do. Today, the whole of Gothenburg is a construction site. I barely know how to get to Central Station today when I'm driving. Last time, my own father had to drop me off in the middle of the street, because there was nowhere to go. There are new roads every day, but this is the case with larger infrastructure projects. Madam President, I would like I want to know which decision-makers to discuss with to get rid of the congestion tax in 2047.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-263	Madam President, I would like I note that Jimmy Ståhl has a nice father who takes him to the station. As for the Backa exception, I'm happy to be able to deliver on it. I myself was already out in the 2014 election campaign and was clear that I saw a need for a Backa derogation, and I was then able to deliver on it during the last term of office as well. In addition, it became a larger Backa exception than what had been developed in the local dialogue in Gothenburg. So there was a greater exception than was requested. It is of course good for all residents in Backa, but it is also important for the legitimacy of the congestion tax. It was completely crazy the way it was designed from the beginning. Then there was the question of the year 2047. It is not something that I spend a great deal of time reflecting on these days because over the past year I have spent day and night trying to deal with the deep crisis that the world is in as a result of the ongoing pandemic. The question is how these decisions will be taken up to 2047. I don't really know where that year comes from. The assessment is that the package will be paid off at some point in the mid 2030s. What the decision-making routes are then I do not dare to say about, and to what extent there will be congestion in Gothenburg at that time is also difficult to say about. It may be a time when there is a sharing economy where we share cars with each other in a way that we do not see today or that electric bicycles or the new train tunnel are being used in a way that is difficult to speculate about today. There are authorities working with this type of traffic analysis, and there are all the opportunities in the world to call them to Parliament to see how they believe the traffic situation will develop in Gothenburg in the 2030s or 2040s.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-268	Madam President, I would like I really appreciate that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has helped to relieve me of large parts of the congestion tax fee. By 2047 was a figure that I had obtained. If I'm wrong, I'm super happy. If Magdalena Andersson can deliver a prepaid package by 2030, the hope for me will be lit. That I asked my question to the Minister for Finance is because the congestion tax is based on a law, and law is passed in Parliament. I know that some local parties in Gothenburg have based their policies solely on the issue of congestion taxes, but they have not been directly successful in their only issue. As I understand it, this is a parliamentary matter, and then decisions should be made in Parliament. That is what has been pointed out. In other respects, Magdalena Andersson has not quite caved into the areas around Gothenburg. I was going to ask about Lindholmen, which should not be subject to congestion tax at all. But I don't care about that question. Nevertheless, I would like to put the following question to Magdalena Andersson. Is it right that if the law on congestion tax is to be removed, it is done in the Riksdag?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-273	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is the Riksdag that has decided on the congestion tax. If you want to make changes in congestion tax or abolish congestion tax, it is the Riksdag that decides on this. I assume that will also be the case in the 1930s or in the 1940s. It was a discussion from the outset about the congestion tax was a tax or charge, but it is another issue. So yes, as it stands, it is the Riksdag that makes decisions, but I find it difficult to see that it would not be preceded by a close dialogue with the Gothenburg rulers and the wishes of the Gothenburgers in the 30s or 40s. It is also, of course, about the wishes that exist depending on the traffic and environmental situation at the time, and also about new infrastructure projects that there is a need to finance through congestion taxes. However, if a direct bridge or tunnel is intended to be financed, there is also the possibility of charging an infrastructure charge instead.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-275	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me if the government is prepared to speed up the investigation's work to facilitate the work of the Matchfixing Council and if I am prepared to begin a thorough survey of the extent of crime in terms of match fixing in sport in order to be able to put in place the right measures. Angelika Bengtsson has further asked what measures will be taken to reduce the number of matches fixed and whether I am worried about the development and what I think it depends on. The investigation that Angelika Bengtsson refers to was initiated in December 2020 and will report on its mission by 30 June 2021. The commission of the investigation is to review the conditions for collaboration in the work against manipulation of results in sport, known as match fixing, and propose measures to remove any obstacles to effective information sharing. The investigation has a very short time at its disposal, and it is conducted promptly under the leadership of Gunnar Larsson, Director General of Kammarkollegiet. When it comes to the extent of one of the crimes, Statskontoret has a mission to monitor and evaluate the re-regulation of the gaming market. This task includes in particular the presence of match fixing. Statskontoret has, for example, supplemented available data from the police with data from the gaming industry and the Swedish Football Federation. The task of the said investigation is also to facilitate the sharing of information, which makes it easier to get a comprehensive picture of the scope. Games should be pleasurable but are also about money and thus the risk of abuse. Work against match fixing is about protecting the integrity of sport but also about preventing gambling from being misused for criminal activities. The gaming market investigation has recently submitted its final report. The final report, which is in the process of being consulted, proposes a new duty for licence holders on the development of the gaming market – i.e. to give the Inspectorate for Games a better basis in the work against match fixing. The proposal of the gaming market investigation, together with the forthcoming proposals from Gunnar Larsson's investigation, thus aims to increase the possibilities to counteract match fixing. In addition, the Swedish Gaming Authority has been given a mandate to report what measures the authority has taken in the work against match fixing and to make an assessment of what effect these measures have or can be taken. I will continue to work actively and, if necessary, take the measures deemed effective to counter match fixing.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-281	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. I take the answer as saying that the Government and the Government are satisfied with the efforts that have been made. However, I disagree. We have been discussing this issue more and more intensively for years. But I'm beginning to notice a certain frustration in those I'm talking to about match fixing. A recurring message is that more needs to be done faster and that more should already have been initiated. Instead, the government is leaning back on ongoing investigations. When I was elected to this Chamber in 2014, a seminar on match fixing was held. Even then it was a problem. But there was hope from the police and sports movement: If we do enough now, we can stop the development! Unfortunately, not enough was done, and today we see the consequences and consequences of this. The criminal gangs and gangs have taken a large – and increasingly large – hold on to the sports movement, the athletes and, not least, sports leaders and judges. We are seeing an increasing number of both suspected and convicted match fixes. The concrete outcome is that we have failed to halt development. What we know today is that it cannot be solely the responsibility of clubs to discourage and work preventively. For example, it is not their mission to investigate possible crimes, but the police. But it takes too long to sort this out and find procedures. Madam President, I would like The government set up a new investigation in 2015. Four years later we had a law that came into force. This is how the political process works. It takes a long time, especially if something is to be done from scratch, as with the new gaming law. But I cannot let go or, for that matter, understand why the government has not been able to do more with the concrete proposals presented by the police and sports movement. The investigation under the leadership of Gunnar Larsson to which the Government refers in its reply was widely known even before the match fixing council was appointed. Why wasn't the investigation set up earlier? Madam President, I would like When the new gaming law came into force, a council was also set up to work with match fixing. It is not the intention that I question, but the work that the Council of State initiated and which now does not function or lead anywhere. When will the Government start listening to the industry and to those who work closest to the issue? They say more needs to be done at a faster pace. When will the state council's famous quotes about smoking out criminals become reality? Since the Swedish Government did not perform any more in the re-regulation of the new Gambling Act, the Nordic Sports Associations took the initiative to further increase cooperation through common rules for cross-border closures. There are currently no international common rules on match fixing, as opposed to, for example, doping. The closest we will be to the Council of Europe's Macolin Convention, but the government has not wanted to sign it. Responsibilities are handed over to someone else in the area by area.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-289	Madam President, I would like I thank Angelika Bengtsson for the interpellation and commitment to the issue. I am pleased that there is a very strong commitment in this House to the match fixing phenomenon. I note that on several occasions both Angelika Bengtsson and other members of Parliament have focused on the issue, which is very good. I recently attended a seminar organised by MEP Anna Wallentheim together with the sports movement. There, too, it was shown that we have a very close dialogue between the sports movement, the government and the Riksdag. It is precisely the kind of collaboration across party boundaries and across borders for different sectors that is needed for us to succeed – according to the quote that Angelika Bengtsson renders – smoke out crime and specifically match fixing from Swedish sports. Madam President, I would like I became responsible for gaming issues in connection with the change of power in 2014. When I arrived at the Ministry of Finance in October 2014, I found that the government led by Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt had blocked the re-regulation of the gaming market for eight years. The idea was that we would have a re-regulation of the gambling market in 2008, but that issue was blocked throughout that government ownership. We started as soon as possible with re-regulating the gaming market in 2014. I contacted the Parliament's Committee on Culture under the leadership of the then Chairman Per Bill from the Moderates. We worked very closely with the Riksdag. In record time, we implemented a major structural reform, namely the re-regulation of the gambling market and the introduction of a licensing system. I really appreciate the dialogue and cooperation with the Riksdag throughout the process that allowed us to take control of the Swedish gaming market after two decades of absence in practice. The state is now doing what is our fundamental duty, namely to protect Swedish citizens against crime and – what to say – disobedience to Swedish law. Now, since January 1, 2019, we have the tools to control the gaming market and thus also carry out an effective fight against match fixing. The Swedish Gaming Authority leads the work with the advice that is a platform for collaboration between different actors that are relevant in this area. The Swedish Gaming Authority has also recently issued restrictions on which types of betting objects should be allowed on the Swedish gaming market. This has been done in the context of a very close dialogue with the Swedish sports movement, not least with the Swedish Football Association. We found that there were a number of betting objects that were dangerous and that involved a greater risk of match fixing. The Swedish Gambling Authority has now taken these measures after close dialogue with various actors and the government. The restrictions entered into force on 1 January. But we're not happy. It is against this background that Director General Gunnar Larsson has been tasked with identifying the obstacles that are in the way of effective work against match fixing and proposing changes to the law. It's a quick investigation. The work will take place from December and we will have the proposals on our table in a few months' time. Then I expect the close cooperation with Parliament to continue on this issue too, so that we can take the necessary measures. It will require close dialogue, and it is very good that there is a strong commitment in Parliament. I really appreciate Angelika Bengtsson's interpellation and am of course prepared to answer the questions that exist.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-294	Madam President, I would like Once again, it seems that the Government is blaming itself. He says it is Reinfeldt's government's fault that the current legislation came into place only in 2019. The new restrictions that came into place in terms of betting work I think is really great. But this could have been done earlier. Already years ago, it was questioned whether you could play on yellow cards or in low divisions. I think the regulation is good. Again, the Government refers to the current investigation, which is led by Gunnar Larsson. The investigation that he is conducting has concrete proposals that have been known for years. Why has this investigation not been set up in the past, if we have been aware of the problem that the authorities working on the match fixing issue cannot share important and essential tasks between each other? For example, sports federations and police cannot speak the same language. Then it is difficult to investigate, prevent, counteract and work preventively. Why wasn't the investigation set up earlier? In 2018, we had 47 fixed games – games made before the match starts. This is a large and sharp increase in a short time. Several experts claim that Sweden is paradise for match fixing. I'm not happy with that. I appreciate that the Government and the Government want a close dialogue with the Riksdag, but one must also be able to take criticism when not enough is done, especially when those who work closely with the issue are not satisfied and are frustrated that nothing is happening. I have been told by the Matchfixing Council that this work has not been possible in the previous year. Although we are in a pandemic, criminals do not stop being criminals just because we are in a pandemic. As I asked in my interpellation: Why is not a survey done – linked to the Matchfixing Council – to see how crime is in the sports movement? I have a commitment to sport because I myself have been playing sports from childhood, and it is from the perspective of this interpellation. I want a clean sport. I want to be able to rely on sport and know that it is pure play that takes place. Of course, match fixing is a broad question. The gaming companies are also involved, and this is on the government table. But, again, more needs to be done in a shorter time. I find it sad that the Government is referring to the investigations that are now under way. I would like to ask another question regarding the scale of penalties for match fixing offences. Will the scale of penalties be reviewed? This is something that we in the Swedish Democrats have proposed to this House. And will the government provide the police with additional resources to deal with the issue and to investigate these crimes?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-301	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Angelika Bengtsson for the question. When it comes to the criminalisation of match fixing, it is this government that has put forward at Parliament's table the bill that means that match fixing has been criminalized since 1 January 2019, also with fairly high penalties. This is very good. What is important now is the use of this legislation. In order for it to be used, it requires an interaction between the police authorities, the sports movement and the gaming companies. Then you get quite quickly into issues that are quite complicated for reasons of integrity. It is about the sharing of information, moreover, between private and public entities, which, of course, involves great risks. Then, of course, we need to look into the legal conditions in order to enable information sharing. It is precisely against this background that Director General Gunnar Larsson has been given the task of quickly investigating the issue and making proposals that are necessary for us to be effective in our work. I did not refer to Mr Reinfeldt's handling of the matter to explain it away. We are extremely offensive in the fight against match fixing, but I want to give a picture of why the match fixing phenomenon was established in our society. We had two decades when the Swedish state abdicated from its responsibility to regulate the gaming market. Until 1 January 2019, a lot of gaming companies operating against the Swedish market did not have to comply with Swedish law – they were based on Malta, and Swedish legislation did not apply to them. We thus had a regulatory framework that did not guarantee that Swedish law had to be obeyed by the actors that operated against the Swedish gaming market. At that time, it was very good – and indeed necessary – that the government and parliament collaborated and could re-regulated the gaming market and push through this important structural reform. It was done in record time. Since then – since 1 January 2019 – we have continuously worked to adjust the legislation and take measures to ensure that we really achieve what was the purpose of the re-regulation, namely that the Swedish state would regain control of the market. What I mentioned now about the fact that we have a ban on certain gambling objects is just one of the measures that have been taken since 1 January 2019. Need more to be done? Yeah, definitely. We need even better interaction between the sports movement, the gaming companies and our authorities. Police resources are one thing, but we must also ensure that there is the right expertise in this area. Then we must make use of the important knowledge and experience that exists in the sports movement. I am proud that we have a very close dialogue with the Swedish Football Association; we have continuously conducted a dialogue with the Swedish Football Association throughout this journey. When the Swedish Gambling Authority, for example, put forward proposals to ban gaming objects with which the sports movement was not satisfied because it felt that these proposals were not far-reaching enough, there was a sensitivity of our authority so that the agency could take on board the proposals that came from the sports movement – among other things from the Swedish Football Association – and so that we got stricter restrictions that meant even more effective tools against match fixing. I agree with Angelika Bengtsson, but I would like to go a little further than Angelika Bengtsson. Match fixing is not only a threat to Swedish sports, but I would say that match fixing is a threat to trust in our society in general. If it is possible to question the honesty of our sports competitions at the elite level, we have a negative trend in confidence in our society in general. I share Angelika Bengtsson's view and will take the necessary measures for us to smoke out the match fixation from Swedish society. However, it must be stressed that this will require interaction with the Riksdag, as it concerns legislative issues and sensitive privacy issues.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-313	Madam President, I would like I can well say that I and the Government share the commitment to match fixing, that we both want to resolve this and that we see that there are no easy issues. Perhaps we have a slightly different view on how to get to the problem where we both want to get to it. Again, it is not the intention of the government's work that I question, but it is the slowness that I question. One must be able to fight the problem from several angles at the same time. Give the police more resources so that they can work preventively, and give them, above all, the opportunity to put the criminals behind bars! And listen to sport when sport warns! The most important thing right now is to see what Gunnar Larsson's investigation shows. I, too, am very much looking forward to that investigation, although I had hoped that we would have it on the table today. I would like to thank you for a good debate, and I would like to say again on this issue.
i-KYrEJj33DjV4fyTn7cc1ei	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for this interpellation and for the debate here! We will have concrete proposals on our table in a few months' time. Gunnar Larsson is a very experienced investigator and Director General with broad knowledge of Swedish administration and legislation, so we will be able to receive proposals that allow the Swedish state to fight more effectively against match fixing. I look forward to working closely with the Riksdag so that we can proceed as quickly as possible with these proposals and take the measures proposed by the investigator and also called for by the Swedish sports movement. We will intensify our dialogue with the Swedish sports movement and specifically with Swedish football and Swedish hockey, given that we have a worrying trend behind us in these two sports. We have so far been extremely sensitive to the views expressed to the government and to the authorities of the sports movement and have taken the measures that this movement has called for. However, I am convinced that Gunnar Larsson's work will give us new guidance on the methods and channels that need to be used in the fight against match fixing. This will very likely also involve new players. It is not just about the police and the sports movement, but there are definitely other players – not least in the financial market – who have important tools that can be used in the fight against match fixing. I look forward to having those proposals on the government table in a few months' time and thus also continuing the dialogue with Parliament.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-322	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me several questions about road maintenance in Sweden. Good accessibility throughout Sweden is necessary for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and to get a Sweden that stays together. The Government decided in 2018 on a national traffic cross-border plan for the transport infrastructure, and it means an investment of over SEK 700 billion. The plan enables investments throughout the country and involves a record investment in road maintenance of a total of SEK 164 billion. The government has continued to invest in road maintenance. Following the Government's proposal in an extraordinary amending budget in May 2020, additional funds were added to maintenance of rural roads amounting to SEK 300 million. Following the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2021, the allocation for road maintenance has been increased by SEK 500 million per year during the period 2021 – 2023, where the focus is on the fine-mesh road network in rural areas. The Government's efforts enable Trafikverket to implement urgent maintenance measures on the entire state road network. After many years of underinvestment, I can see that the government is now implementing initiatives that create the conditions for a high level of standards on the road network. These efforts contribute to good accessibility, a high level of road safety and also to increased employment. The Government has started work on developing a new national plan for the development of the transport infrastructure and intends to present an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021. Following the parliamentary decision on the financial framework, work on the so-called action plan continues. It identifies the actions to be prioritised in the national plan. Decisions on a new national plan are planned for 2022.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-327	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, for your answer. I could travel Sweden can better or satisfied but not satisfied, I was about to say. That is really our dilemma here. Both our parties have highlighted the importance of infrastructure in different contexts. However, that did not prevent us from having just today a report from the transport companies which just points to the fact that, with the plans just announced by the Government, we will end up in a situation of maintenance debt, according to their assessment, of around 40 billion by 2030. We are courted as Members of Parliament by people from all over the country, which I assume also the Government does, pointing to how the Swedish Transport Agency's road maintenance is reduced and how it results in increasingly poor roads with the risk of accidents and that instead of carrying out maintenance, as it is perceived, the speed limits are lowered. The report also shows that the lack of maintenance affects the whole country. But no matter how we turn it around, those of us who live in cities often have alternatives. It is also the case that in some cities it is the municipality and the region that are responsible for part of the maintenance, so you do not notice the damage quite as much. However, for those who are completely referring to the roads of the Finnish Transport Administration, where maintenance is apparently lagging behind and where, instead of solving the problems, it lowers the speed limit, it leads to anxiety, irritation and frustration. While we are talking about maintenance, we have talked on several occasions in this House about the need for industry to develop more BK4 roads. The transport system, which is the bloodstream in the Swedish business community but also private life in terms of mobility, is starting to have major problems. That is why I have asked the Government whether he sees the problem and what he intends to do. I am, of course, grateful for the formal answers, but I am afraid that people will not fully settle for them. What is the ambition and will, and where is the glow of the Government, Madam President?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-334	Madam President, I would like I am interfering in this debate a little bit precisely because the roads are something that engages me. The whole country should live, it is often said, and an important prerequisite for this is that the infrastructure works. The road network has an extremely important role here, although, of course, both shipping and rail can also be important. But the roads are incredibly important. I have spent a large part of my life on the Swedish road network. During my time with the traffic police, I was involved in investigating some 300 accidents involving death or serious injury. At that time, the matter was to find out whether it was the driver, vehicle or road that caused the accident, and in the vast majority of cases it was the driver. But time and again we also discovered that defects in the road system had caused the accident with a tragic outcome. From the report that we have received, it can be expected that more and more accidents will occur in the future due to a lack of road maintenance. Now I do not have the current figure, but I know that a while ago, every death in traffic was estimated to cost about SEK 27 million. Then one can quickly see what costs this means to society, in addition to the personal tragedy of the people affected, because it cannot be measured in money. If we are to have a road network that is safe, if we are to live up to zero vision and if we have the will for the whole country to live, we must invest money on the road network. Whether you live in Gothenburg, Västerås or Vilhelmina, which is located in the interior of Norrland, it must work to get to work and take care of your everyday life. I have the privilege of travelling quite a lot, even on my way actually. Last week I was out on a road as big as E20. I turned off from it in Mariestad. There was a big hole in the middle of the roadway, so I had to swing down to the ditch edge to get past, because otherwise the front car had been broken. This was done on one of Sweden's biggest roads, E20. It is therefore not only the fine-meshed road network in rural areas that has concerns, but also the larger strings suffer from insufficient resources being set aside to ensure safety and accessibility. I was talking to a traffic cop the other day. Because snow clearance did not arrive, the traffic had been standing for hours. He said: It is not possible to clear a road that has so bad ground that snow clearance cannot handle the situation. We are in a situation where an already bad situation is getting worse, and then more money needs to be added. The Government says that there has never been as much investment in the road network as now. Fine, but it is quite obvious that it is not enough. The report shows a frightening development if you do not increase the pace of maintenance of the Swedish road network.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-342	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson and of course also Thomas Morell, for the commitment! It's incredibly important. It is important to remember that there has never been so much investment on the Swedish road network as now. The Finnish Transport Agency has never had so much money to maintain the Swedish road network. The national plan contains 100 billion more than when the Moderates ruled the country. Then we had a government led by the Moderates, which the Swedish Democrats think would be best for Sweden, as a priority tax reduction before investment in infrastructure. We are now standing here after years of underinvestment, when we did not invest in rail and on roads. We are now bringing this home with big bets. But traffic is increasing, needs are increasing and, not least, freight transport is increasing. For those who believe that everything is solved with investments in roads, I would like to take the example of road 40 between Gothenburg and Borås, one of the heaviest routes in Sweden today. Soon you can't put in any more buses or more transport there because it's too tight. There is the solution to make railway initiatives, as we announced, Gothenburg– Borås. It is an incredibly important part of what then becomes the construction of new main roads. I note that the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the construction of new main roads. But we need efforts to relieve the road network. By building Norrbotniabanan or adding new capacity to the rail system, we can also move a lot of the goods that otherwise weigh on the Swedish road network. Of course, we will also continue to invest a lot in the way. The Finnish Transport Agency has pointed out in its orientation paper to the Government the need for more road infrastructure. Magnus Jacobsson is right here; more resources will be needed for Swedish road infrastructure. It should be remembered, however, that we are faced with a situation in which the Government and the Riksdag should support and decide on the framework for this. It'll decide. Now it's a little up to all the parties in the Riksdag how much resources they want to invest in infrastructure – or whether tax cuts or other things come ahead. It is then in the national plan 2022 that the positions are made about which objects to be wagered on. I think that everyone who has travelled in Sweden not least during the summer months in recent years has noticed that there is more road work than before and more maintenance work by rail. It is because we have taken courageous decisions to prioritise maintaining the quality of the Swedish road network and the railways. We're shooting at resources. But after years of underinvestment, the needs are obviously great. What we have done in recent years is specifically earmarking resources for the rural road network because it is needed. But if we are to solve this in the long term, it is about managing the resources and resource needs for Swedish infrastructure. Sweden has a population of over 10 million inhabitants and a labour market and an export industry that is doing well. We therefore need to develop even higher capacity in both rail systems and shipping. We need to make changes that relieve the road network, for example by expanding the capacity of the rail system and putting more goods into shipping. This is how we meet the challenge of ensuring both good road safety and a strengthened Swedish road network. I believe that the starting point for the coming period will be a discussion of what is most important to prioritise in this situation. An important part is of course to strengthen the quality of the road network as well as to have space and advice to invest in, for example, new main roads and Norrbotniabanan in order for more transport to be able to go climate-smart.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-354	Madam President, I would like I was in Parliament from 19 98 to 20 02, and the debate we are having today is quite similar to that at the time. It may not help to point back to ancient or ancient days, for the fact is that we have a situation here and now. I have had the privilege of being a municipal councillor in a majority situation in Uddevalla and the privilege of being a group leader in opposition. At home in Uddevalla it was sometimes easier to hold back on the maintenance of the properties and pay to the school and manage the support. One was seen over time while the other was statutory. With us, this resulted in the demolition of some preschools. Maintenance was so neglected that it was better to build new ones. In my oblivion, I thought we were a little lonely about this, but I understand that this is what it looks like here and was in the realm – and that regardless of the political majority. We took hold of the maintenance problems when we formed a government after the 2006 elections, and the Social Democrats continued to do so when they won the elections eight years later – so I neither enhance nor diminish anyone. But the fact remains that we see the same problem today in the national transport system. We see a lack of maintenance that results in the road bank running out. We see a lack of maintenance that makes individuals worried when they're out driving in the winter. Madam President, I would like Then it does not help that the Government is talking about shipping and rail. There aren't many trains from Färgelanda to Uddevalla, and we don't have much rail or canal-bound traffic from Torp to the city centre. Sweden does not look like that. The railways and shipping have their strength and can relieve much of the goods if the right conditions are given. But we can't get away with dealing with the roads. Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Government that this will be felt in the money purse. So far, most parties have had about the same budget – not entirely, we should not take any credit one way or the other – but our parties have had about the same budget. There is, however, a small difference. The Christian Democrats have said for the past two years, after consultation within the party, that the so-called bompengen in Stockholm and Gothenburg is not fun but is needed. I don't like having to pay extra when I drive into Gothenburg. It's especially sad that I drive in because you tear up the roads. But I see that in the long run what I pay when I drive into Gothenburg will contribute to a better infrastructure in Gothenburg. This has been done jointly by the City of Gothenburg, the region and the government, even between governments. Madam President, I would like In a lot of things, we agree. On this particular issue, however, the Christian Democrats in their budget and motion have said that they are in favour of bimpeng. I do not believe that we will be able to manage an HH link or a new Öland bridge without any form of co-financing. We will have to think new and let municipalities, regions and government work together. Madam President, I would like I call for a vision. I miss the fire to solve the problems we have in traffic.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-364	Madam President, I would like Railroad in all the glory. It is obvious that the Government has not read our motions. We say 'no' to high-speed trains, but we want to invest in other parts of the railway, precisely in order to improve freight transport. Up in the inlands of Norrland you are not very valiant to trains down in Skåne passing at 300 kilometers per hour. It's up there the big problems are when the forest industry should have its raw material out of the forest. A little that Magnus was on about bad road maintenance: If the roof doesn't hold tight, the house will be damaged. That is the way things are on the road today. If you go on highway 26 or E45 you can see longitudinal cracks in the roadway and that the setting in the road bank means that the asphalt is pushed out into the ditch edge. It is obvious that you get damage to the road body when it leaks down water and the frost then comes and does its thing. The need to equip our road network is enormous, no matter where we are. It is important for our industry and for those who live, live and work in the country. For those who live in big cities, it usually works out, even if there too, of course, is in need of a good road network. If we are to make the forest industry, smaller industries in smaller towns and food production work, we must have a road network that works. In addition, if we are to achieve the goals of zero vision, we must have a road network that is safe to travel on. However, the report shows that we are heading in the opposite direction, and I am concerned about that.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-369	Madam President, I would like I thank the debaters. I am thinking of the latter. Earlier I took the example of Gothenburg – Borås. I'll take the West Dalsbanan. Our choice to upgrade the railway line at Malungsfors so that the forest industry can hand over the transport to electrified railway was not only an important investment in distinct rural areas. It also means smarter transport for the forest industry and 7 500 trucks less a year on a distance that has previously been heavily worn down. It is tough with so much heavy traffic, not least for everyone who lives in the area. That's the point I'm trying to make at community level too. The Freight Transport Council's analyses and Traffic Analysis reports on freight transport in the future clearly show an increase in transport volumes, and then we need to think a little smarter. We must ensure that we also have a transfer to rail and maritime transport. That is not to say that we should not invest in the roads. We'll bet more than ever. There has never been so much resources to maintain the quality of the roads, but it is a high wear and tear. We have increased volumes of traffic, which is why it is important to secure and prioritise. We give priority not least to the forestry industry's transport with BK4, where we now – which was not done before – increase the load capacity so that you can drive 74 tons of trucks on priority routes. This is something that gives the forest industry advantages when they are going to get timber out of the forest, also with longer and heavier vehicles, so we probably have a very clear transport policy that, unlike in the past, focuses on the needs of the industry throughout the country, not least the forest industry, but for that matter also the tourism industry. I think that Magnus Jacobsson reasons wisely. I also think that the issue of financing is interesting, not least with the great needs that we can see before us. This raises the question of the road wear charge, where there has been a compact resistance among several bourgeois representatives, including the Swedish Democrats, against the idea that it is not only Swedish hauliers who will pay for transport on Swedish roads but also foreign hauliers. Today this is done on a very small scale, within the so-called Eurovignette, which is shrinking as European cooperation and where soon only three additional countries are paying in some sense to drive on Swedish roads. Why is there such hesitation and opposition to ensuring that we have a basic taxation which means that all heavy goods transport, which is working hard on the Swedish road network, is involved in paying for it, not just Swedish haulage companies? Why should Bulgarian, Lithuanian, Polish or other hauliers not also pay for driving on Swedish roads? The former Alliance and now bourgeois parties have said that they do not want to be part of this. I don't understand why. It would be a good way to ensure that everyone is involved in paying for the wear and tear that exists on the Swedish roads. Today only Swedish hauliers do so. This would be a welcome addition because much of the transport on our roads is carried out by foreign hauliers. We work to improve the conditions for competition for Swedish hauliers and to ensure that we have tougher controls for cabotage traffic and equal and better wages for the foreign drivers, so that wages are not dumped and Swedish haulage is thus competed out. But basically, because the issue of funding is raised, which I think Magnus Jacobsson does well, we must ask ourselves: Is it not reasonable that those who use our roads, such as foreign hauliers, should be involved in paying for it? It would be interesting to have an answer from both the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats to that question.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-376	Madam President, I would like I note that there was a transport policy speech on the haulage industry. I'm glad. There are a couple of those who really use our roads, and they are totally dependent on the roads working. Then, Madam President, in all humility, I would like to remind the Minister that, in at least our last two motions on Category 22, the Christian Democrats have highlighted the idea of a new taxation system. We have pointed out that we need to have some form of mileage taxation, which also includes environmental effects and many other things. We have expressed this in two motions in a row. I have every respect that there's no time for everything. Neither do I, Madam President, but we have pointed out two years in a row that the transport sector should be taken first. We have expressed this in the form that one could have a digital puck that should be placed in the box so that the police, like with the tax marks in the past, can see if it is there or not. If the puck is in the box, it does not matter what number plate you have, but you pay for driving in Sweden. Then you pay even if you drive on small roads and try to get involved in the system. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have held seminars on this, including in Almedalen, because our firm view is that we must find new resources to cope with road maintenance. We also need to find resources to improve the infrastructure. Unlike the Green Party, which stood here in a debate and said that the Swedish road network is complete, we Christian Democrats believe that the road network and maintenance need to be improved. We have pointed out two different financial solutions which de facto mean that those who use the system are involved in paying for it. I believe, Madam President, that we have responded clearly from our side, but we note that we can no longer investigate as a party.
i-76NP7rijTv2dCEmmvZHb9h	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for your answer! I remember now that Thomas Morell did not have the opportunity to reply, but I think I can get a response from the Swedish Democrats in a different context. I very much welcome the response from the Christian Democrats, because that is the challenge that we are facing. Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country. We are a country that has a strong need to maintain a well-functioning infrastructure and ensure that the export industry has good opportunities to compensate. We are a large country, and it is sometimes a competitive disadvantage because it leads to more transport. Let us compensate for this by having smarter and more efficient transport and at the same time – of course – sustainable transport. That's why we work with biofuels and the reduction obligation. That's why we're working on electrification, and now we're speeding it up with the Electrification Commission. And that's why we work intensively with the automotive industry, not least Scania and Volvo, which is now electrifying the vehicles. We plan for the construction of electric roads but also build out the road, i.e. the charging infrastructure. In this way, we will ensure that we have sustainable transport. But we also have efficiency, and then it is in the nature of the matter that it will be costly. To some extent, transport buyers will be involved in paying for this. There is no free transport, I say, and it is important to remember. But we can think about the financing conditions, and that is why the question of the road toll is important. I think it is very easy for everyone to realise the need, after years of underinvestment, to invest more in both rail maintenance and road maintenance. However, I would like to say in this context, for safety's sake, that it will be a balance once the framework is set for how much we need to invest in new investments, whether it be new roads or railways or fairway intensifications. The transport sector needs to be developed; we are absolutely certain of that.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-384	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson and David Josefsson have asked me a number of questions about land claims and national interests linked to the new main track between Gothenburg and Borås. I choose to respond to the interpellations jointly. Unlike the Moderates, the Government has the ambition not only to build a new railway between Gothenburg and Borås, but also to complete new high-speed rail lines. In order to minimise uncertainties in the planning of the new main routes, the government would have liked a broad political discussion on the financing of the new main routes, but the Moderates have declined to participate, despite a broad commitment to an expansion among municipalities, regions and a large part of the business community. The Finnish Transport Agency has the task of providing information for the areas that the Finnish Transport Agency assesses are of national interest in terms of communications. As the Swedish Transport Administration's planning work for new infrastructure objects continues, it is possible to reduce the extent of the areas that need to be covered by a designation of national interest. The planning work gradually clarifies the prerequisites for future transport infrastructure as well as for other planning. In the admissibility trial of the new main railway part Gothenburg – Borås, the government will take a position on the location of the railway. As a minister, I cannot and must not comment on what assessments the authorities or the government may make on a future individual matter.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-387	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. But the answer from the Government does not answer my question at all. That's why I'm repeating it. What measures does the Government intend to take to minimise the impact of national interests on future infrastructure on housing and urban development? My ambition is therefore neither to have a big debate for or against a railway between Gothenburg and Borås, nor to get the Government to answer a single matter – quite the contrary. But this interpellation debate is about how the authorities' planning work, along with slow political decision-making processes, goes out on individuals and society at large. The fact that the Government does not want to see this problem, and let alone answer my question, is, in fact, only embarrassing for the Minister. But it also shows an indifference to the thousands of Swedes involved because they happen to live in the wrong place, a place that the authorities and the government might want to build on sometime in the future. In this debate, the example of the railway between Gothenburg and Borås is a good illustration. This is about the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration will identify a number of possible proposals for so-called corridors where a railway route can be drawn and at the same time lock these corridors as national interests. Underhand information indicates that the Swedish Transport Administration will propose three corridors. This means that in the end at least two areas will not even be affected by the rail draw but will be locked for a significant period of time. When a national interest is pointed out, it has major consequences, whether it is individual homeowners who see the value of their houses fall, individual traders who cannot expand their business or urban development projects put in the drawer. In an article in Local Press Härryda on 13 December last year, the manager of planning and building permits in Härryda municipality describes the situation as follows: The fact that the draws are now becoming a national interest makes it more difficult for our citizens, and that is very regrettable. It would be very desirable to find a corridor and narrow it as soon as possible, so that we know more precisely where we intend to build the railways. It is important that Götalandsbanan should not lie as a wet blanket over our municipality longer than necessary. Madam President, I would like This is a problem not only around Götalandsbanan but generally. What is needed is rapid and effective decision-making by the authorities. But it is also a matter of political responsibility. If there is clear political leadership ready to make decisions, uncertainty and hence the need to identify large areas for a long time will decrease. Madam President, I would like It may be that at some course at Bommersvik, the Government may have learned that attacks are the best defenses when you get crowded in a debate. This is why, today, we Moderates are opposed to high-speed trains instead of discussing how individuals are affected by national interests. It is true that we Moderates are sceptical about high-speed trains. I would rather see investments in the track infrastructure around our big cities as soon as possible than high-speed trains in a few decades. I would rather see fewer Gothenburgers sitting on platforms because of delayed trains than that I as a Member of Parliament can go back and forth to Stockholm 20 minutes faster in 20 years. But, like I said, that wasn't my question. That's why I'm repeating it. What measures does the Government intend to take to minimise the impact of national interests on housing and urban development both between Gothenburg and Borås and in Sweden as a whole?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-399	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Already in 2012, the then alliance government decided to start building a new railway for traditional high-speed trains between Gothenburg and Borås with a planned construction start in 2019. This was the important route Mölnlycke – Bollebygd with a station at Landvetter airport. Money was set aside in the 2014 budget. With this new section, the worst part of the tracks between West Sweden's two largest cities would be replaced by a completely new railway. Travel time between the two cities would be reduced considerably, and this would facilitate regional commuting. At the same time, both Gothenburg and Borås would have a direct train connection to Landvetter Airport. If the Alliance had continued to control Sweden, the construction of this railway line could already be under way. Unfortunately, that was not the case. After the turn of the government in 2014, everything changed. At first, it was three years when nothing happened. In 2017, the government withdrew the previous 2012 decision and the money that the alliance government had spent. Then the money was returned a few years later and called it an initiative. Then the construction start was set to 2023. Now there is talk of a construction start no earlier than 2025 - 2027. But on the other hand, no one really knows what to build on the route – whether it will be high-speed or rail for ordinary high-speed trains. The Finnish Transport Agency was forced to start over with a new preliminary study and new consultations. A number of possible draws of the new railway are now being investigated, which adds a wet blanket over large parts of Härryda, Bollebygd and Borås municipalities. Rail corridors have been drawn both north and south of national road 40, although all three municipalities concerned have rejected any idea of the new railway being drawn north of national road 40. As I said, municipalities and individuals cannot plan for their future because municipalities do not dare to plan or even grant building permits for housing in these areas. It is also said that the Swedish Transport Administration will invoke national interest in order to be able to demand total stoppages for all new building permits for several years to come. Several of the routes under investigation pass through villages and communities, which will force many people from their homes and require the redemption of homes. Since you work with three different corridors at the same time, many of the Swedish Transport Administration's limitations are unduly affected. Many people are forced unnecessarily to go for years and worry about the redemption of their homes and are prevented from developing their properties. All properties within these three corridors will in practice be unsaleable. This feels disrespectful to those affected. The lack of clarity as to whether what the Finnish Transport Agency intends to build is conventional high-speed rail or high-speed rail, which requires much wider rail corridors, also helps to block unnecessarily large land areas for other activities pending a decision. The same applies to the uncertainty about station positions, which affects the drawing of the future railway. I have asked the Minister for Infrastructure if he thinks it reasonable that the Swedish Transport Agency should invoke national interest to stop all development simultaneously within three different possible railway corridors, what measures he intends to take to limit the number of railway corridors and thus the number of unnecessarily affected property owners and what measures he intends to take to minimise the time that worried landowners will have to wait for notice. The Minister's answer shows that he disclaims all responsibility for the extremely long time that affected landowners and municipalities are forced to wait for a reply. Nothing in the answer indicates that the Minister intends to act. One possibility would be for the Finnish Transport Administration to listen to the three most affected municipalities and at least quickly removed the northern railway corridor as an alternative. At least that leaves only two corridors south of highway 40. But an even more important statement, to which the Minister can also contribute, would be to set a date by which final decision will be taken by the government at the latest. Today, no one knows how many years affected landowners will live in a vacuum and not know what is happening to their properties. It makes no sense in the rule of law that the minister responsible does not want to lift a finger to speed up the process. In fact, I have just one specific question for the Minister for Infrastructure in this first round: can the Minister for Infrastructure promise that the Government will take a final decision on the question of admissibility before the 2022 elections?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-412	Madam President, I would like As a Gothenburger and port worker, I feel strongly about the railway to and from the port of Gothenburg. Jönköping is a hub that handles a lot of freight traffic, and freight transport is important for the Port of Gothenburg. Landvetter Airport also uses a lot of freight traffic even if it is mostly passenger traffic. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I can tell Minister Tomas that we are very positive about the construction of new main roads. The only question is, what are the main courses we're going to have? We Swedish democrats think that if you build a road it should be able to be used by cars, trucks and motorcycles. I guess the minister feels the same way. But in this case, when you're building high-speed rail, you're only building for fast trains. This means building a road just for Porsches and fast motorcycles, and we cannot accept that. As for the transport route between Gothenburg and Borås via Landvetter, I can think this way. We have the coast-to-coastal n, and it needs updating. I understood that this should happen, which means that the flow of goods is secured. There, however, I have an interesting thought that I must discuss with Tomas Eneroth. It is that in Sweden we have no tradition of building rail on a bridge, that is, bridge foundations on which the railway goes. We have had some tragic accidents in unguarded rail crossings – one not too long ago, when a snowmobile was hit and two girls were killed. If we had lifted up the railway we would have saved land, because then you could have used the land in the immediate area for agriculture and more. This is what I understand a distance of somewhere between five and seven miles, and it would have been a wonderful stretch to try to build a new railway instead of today's railway, where one sits and bounces on the X2000. I believe that it would speed up the speed, increase road safety and remove the suicide. There are many advantages. You don't have to go through snow. The stretch between Gothenburg and Borås would have been wonderful for this. It is my hope that it will be discovered that this is also a quick way of building the railways of the future. Ballasted rail may be suitable for freight traffic, but the railways of the future must be new. I would have liked us to have tried even more modern technology and tested hyperloop. Now it's a little early, but they're testing that technology. Today, what we call high-speed trains runs at 250 kilometres per hour. We could easily have tuned the speed of the existing railway to 250 kilometres per hour with SJ's new X 2000 train, which would have been a much more efficient way of running the railway. However, you had to entertain a little more to make the trip comfortable. But the faster you drive at ground level, the more car sick you become as a human being when everything just flashes by. I'll still have to try and ask Tomas Eneroth. Have you even thought about building this stretch on a bridge? This would have made it easier for municipalities, for example, to have access to land, etc.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you, all the interpellants, when it comes to the Gothenburg – Borås section! It is incredibly important – let me first of all establish it – not least because it is an important pendulum track. Today, however, it is also a route where the railways are not of the right quality. It's going way too slow. We need to increase the proportion of rail traffic in this region, not least to relieve road 40. There it is crowded today with the buses and trucks and the passenger traffic that goes. I've driven there several times myself. This is why the government already in the previous national plan took Gothenburg – Borås as the beginning of the construction of new main tracks. I welcome the line taken by Jimmy Ståhl to try different production techniques in such a construction. It is an assignment that Trafikverket has and will report to the Government on 28 February – how to build more efficiently and keep costs down can test different production techniques. But of course you should also look at other ways to build efficiently. I do not rule out the possibility of building with this type of bridge technology at all. It'll reduce land use. Let us see what is possible, and let us use the time of railway construction to also develop railway construction. The fundamental issue, however, is the conflict that I believe we all know and that often exists when building infrastructure – between the various interests that exist, between landowners and national interests and often also defence interests. It is a tough goal conflict, which may not be so much political between different parties. I think that everyone is struggling to talk about the fact that here is a corridor where we have the ambition to plan for the construction of a road or railway and at the same time, as quickly as possible, to shrink it down, but not in a way that, at the same time, makes it too costly to carry out the construction. The Government has taken responsibility for this by entrusting the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish National Agency for Environmental Protection, the Swedish National Energy Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency to conduct an investigation together with Boverket. It was established on 23 January and is now reviewing the various claims on sites of national interest. The assignment includes reviewing and specifying the criteria for which sites are considered to be of national interest, evaluating whether the current claims for sites of national interest correspond to the criteria developed and considering whether these claims need to be changed. Overall, the whole idea of this review is that it will lead to a sharp reduction in both the number of claims for sites of national interest and the overall area distribution. That is really the starting point. I understand the discussion that both Jan Ericson and David Josefsson highlight – that there is a concern that this area is identified as a potential construction area. That has been the case very often. Can we find smarter ways to narrow down the corridor and tell us sooner? It is clear that it simplifies both municipalities and regions in their planning work. It also makes it easier for landowners and others to know which land will be used. This is a work that continues, and I think it is important that we become even smarter and clearer in terms of how to draw stretches and how to build infrastructure at both lower cost and more efficient. I welcome the fact that we have such a discussion. This is important because we are facing very large infrastructure investments. We now have a Social Democratic-led government, and then we build a lot more infrastructure than was previously done.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer – although I do not now get a really concrete answer to the question, that is, what measures the Government intends to take to minimise the impact of national interests on housing and urban development. If you want to draw the history up to the task that the Government itself mentions, it began with the Swedish National Audit Office criticising the state's handling of national interests in December 2013 and stating that they constituted an obstacle to the municipalities in housing construction. In view of this, the Alliance Government set up an investigation, the so-called "National Interest Investigation", which presented its final report in December 2015, when we had changed the government. Some measures have been taken, but there are obviously still problems, as the situation with Götalandsbanan illustrates in a very clear way. This has also been stated by the Swedish National Audit Office in its follow-up in April 2018, which explicitly states: ..................................................... I think it is good that the Government takes up the task that the Government gave to Boverket and the five so-called national interest authorities about a year ago. The problem is that the timing of the claims, for example in relation to infrastructure investments, is not mentioned anywhere in the directives for that task. That is the problem in this matter: not one but three corridors are identified for the Götaland railway, and then this land risks being locked up for several years. To illustrate the size: This affects not only Härryda municipality but also areas in Mölndal, Bollebygd and Borås. In total, the corridors are seven miles long and one and a half miles wide. It concerns how Gothenburg can be built together with Mölndal and the future development of the towns in Mölnlycke and Bollebygd. This concerns the expansion in expansive areas around Landvetter airport and Viared outside Borås. A lot of things are paused while the Swedish Transport Administration and the government are thinking. Again – what concrete measures does the Government intend to take to minimise the impact of national interests on housing and urban development? And in terms of time, in particular, how can we speed up these processes so that landowners, individual traders or municipalities do not have to pause their state-building plans for several years while the issue is for preparation by the government?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-439	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by objecting a little to the Minister's assertion that more rail is always being built with a Social Democratic government. When the alliance government took office in 2006, we inherited both a rail network and a road network that was extremely poorly maintained. During our years, much more rail and road were built and much more infrastructure was maintained than had been the case under the previous S-government. The point is that, in line with inflation, more money is spent on infrastructure. I note that the Minister does not want to answer the question of when the government will take a final decision on where to draw the railway between Gothenburg and Borås and where the station locations should be. I am a little worried that we will not get an answer to this question before the 2022 elections, because the government base does not fully agree. The Minister is welcome to contradict and give a statement as to when a final reply will be given on the admissibility test. I welcome the fact that the Minister has taken the initiative to review the rules of national interest and the reasonableness of having three alternative railway corridors, all of which can become national interests at the same time and for a long time. At the same time, it is the action of the government that has made this a great deal of time. It is therefore partly the Minister's responsibility that it has taken so long to move forward on these issues. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise another issue which I touched upon in my interpellation; this is the case with station modes. If you build a railway and want many to take the train, it's pretty good with stations. The Finnish Transport Agency has now apparently been tasked with reducing the costs of railway construction because the government cannot finance it with today's estimated price tag. One of the savings the Swedish Transport Administration is now discussing is to delete or move station modes. Landvetter airport has undergone a huge expansion in the last year: a massive expansion of the terminal building and a new large hotel. At the same time, a significant number of large start-ups have been made around the airport, with logistics and more. Landvetter has also received several new external lines, which will start as soon as the pandemic makes this possible. The fact that such a large area of activity with so many employees should not be connected to a completely new railway is simply unreasonable. It should be known that the Västra Götaland region and the municipalities concerned have pointed out that the most important thing about a new railway is regional commuting and connecting Landvetter airport so that you can take the train there from both Gothenburg and Borås. I wonder if the Minister thinks it reasonable that the Swedish Transport Administration should even open up the question of removing the station location at Landvetter Airport and whether he thinks it is reasonable to move the station location in Borås from the centre to the outskirts of the city. If you build a terribly expensive railway, like this will be regardless of technology, without having hardly any stations where people can get on and off the train, how can you get profitability in the railway, and how can you get more travelling by train? If the station in Borås is located outside the city and the region's newly built airport cannot be connected to the new railway, how can you benefit environmentally friendly travel? And, above all, how to get the economy in this railway? I repeat my question, to which I did not receive an answer: when will the government take a final decision on this matter? Can the Minister of Infrastructure promise that this will happen before the 2022 elections?
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-447	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister, because I felt that at least I received an answer and that the construction of a railway line on a bridge is not impossible. When I hear the two previous speakers from the Moderates, I perceive that building rail on a bridge is a relatively good solution. It is a fast and efficient way of building, and it is land saving. If you build a railway station, you can have parking spaces underneath. I've been to Bangkok, Thailand, watching. Skytrain in the middle of an urban environment works great. Then you can also up there, above ground level, have business centres and more, but it does not steal any surface. You don't have barrier effects. So I see only the advantages of this type of construction. I am very positive and pleasantly surprised that the government is not very much against this type of construction. Then, of course, I had hoped that much more of the freight tanks could have been implemented in future infrastructure initiatives rather than focusing on high-speed railways, which are not really very fast. As I understand it, the speed is set at 250 kilometers an hour. Abroad, it's usually around 320, 380 or 450, where we're talking high speeds. Personally, I had not dared to ride on a train at ground level at those speeds; I had experienced that as really bad. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate and for the answer.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-451	Madam President, I would like I thank Members for their contributions. As far as Jimmy Ståhl's last speech is concerned, I think it is important to also remember that when we build new main roads, we do so because we basically have capacity problems today. There has been too little investment on the railways for a very long time, and now we are making big investments. It's full. A year and a half ago I took the millionth train to mark that there have never been so many trains on Swedish railways – over a million trains. But we're hitting the capacity ceiling. It is soon not possible to say yes to new operators who want to drive more trains because it is too crowded on the tracks. More people want to travel climate smart by train, and more companies want to send more goods by train. Then we need to increase capacity and build more rail. That's why we need new main courses. But then it is also a matter of building in such a way that we do not repeat the mistakes we see today. Today trains are often delayed because we mix the high-speed trains, the long-distance trains, the commuter trains and the freight trains. I think we have almost all experienced that we have been on the X 2000 and they say that we have a slow train ahead of us and have to reduce speed. By building main rails for trains with higher speeds, we can create a space for more freight and commuter traffic on the Southern and Western main rail lines, while increasing the distance on new main rails. This is probably so important, not least between Gothenburg and Borås. The Finnish Transport Agency is specifically tasked with looking at how to reduce costs with new production technology, land bridges or other means. Among other things, you also look at what it means if you make system changes. I think it's important that the Finnish Transport Administration has its mission. As Minister of State, I cannot go into detail or comment on their individual proposals. But one thing is certain: From the government's side, we start from the strong commitment that has existed during the Swedish negotiations, where regions and municipalities have been involved in planning and where one has looked at how housing construction can come in connection with the construction of new main roads and how one can work with regional enlargement. I would like to say to the two moderate speakers that you were on that journey. The Alliance presented the entire initiative and started what was then called the construction of Sweden. But then you dropped out. I read almost every week various contributions from moderate Members of Parliament who speak warmly against the initiative on more rail. In West Sweden this is particularly interesting. The West Swedish Chamber of Commerce, business and the region sees the need to invest in the Gothenburg – Borås section and further towards Jönköping and to create more capacity on the West Main Line. We have seen how the Moderates have dropped out of the energy agreement and agreements on the issue of pensions and defence, but when it comes to infrastructure, which is sometimes about building over decades, it would still be desirable to have a little longer sustainability in its arguments than just one or two years. This is not only about providing good conditions for those planning the construction of infrastructure, but also about having respect for municipalities such as Borås or Gothenburg, who want to plan and be able to implement this. Of course you should be able to give information as soon as the planning work is completed, but no one should doubt this government's ambition to build Gothenburg – Borås. We already presented this in the national plan 2018. My question is whether the Moderates still think it is an important and urgent initiative because you so often say that you do not need to build new main courses. For the Västra Götaland region, this is a very important route.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-461	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! The Government comes back to the question of high-speed trains, and it seems that he wants that debate. As a Member of Parliament from Gothenburg, I make quite a lot of company visits to the city, and I would say that very few people talk about high-speed trains, while very many people point to problems with commuter trains being full or delayed in rush hour traffic. That is also what we Moderates are saying. We do not believe in high-speed trains in 20 years' time; we believe in investments here and now to increase capacity. I appreciate the Government's concern that, as a Member of Parliament, I may earn an hour or so each week when I commute to Stockholm, but I'm unlikely to be in Parliament if and when a high-speed track is in place in a few decades. Instead, like many others in the Gothenburg area, I learn to sit on a platform waiting for a delayed commuter train. Before I entered the Riksdag, I worked at the Gothenburg City Management Office on urban management issues, and I followed the Swedish hearing from Gothenburg's perspective. At that time it was found that one of the biggest obstacles for the City of Gothenburg to achieve the goals of housing construction would probably be the counterpart state – both in the form of the County Administrative Board, which without clear governance would not prioritise housing construction, and in the form of national interests, which would circumcise the possibilities of building housing. Half in jokes and half in earnest, someone suggested that counterclaims be made at the hearing: If the state demanded housing construction, the city would require the state not to stop housing construction. I think the laughter gets a little stuck in my throat when you now read about the situation that is developing between Gothenburg and Borås. With this, I would like to thank you for a pleasant and interesting debate with the Government, although we do not seem to be able to come up with a further response to the question of time.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-467	Madam President, I would like Since I was involved in the Llian years and know exactly how the tours went in Sweden negotiations, I can tell you that it was a way to test whether it was reasonable and realistic to build high-speed trains. That is why the Swedish hearing was set up. When we in the Moderates received the material, we concluded that it was not reasonable and realistic. Instead, we wanted to continue the idea we had before, namely to build fast rail but not high-speed trains. That we will build the route Gothenburg – Borås we have always had in all contexts, in all debates, in our infrastructure movements and so on. So there is no doubt at all on the moderate side. I would also like to ask a specific question: What speed is the government planning to keep on the Gothenburg railway – Borås? I'd like to know. In the case of Landvetter, it is a state-owned company, Swedavia, that has invested a lot of money in expanding the airport, and it is a state-owned railway infrastructure that passes through the state-owned airport. Would it not be obvious for the government to say clearly that these two things should be linked together? I think it should be. However, I note that the Minister does not want to answer the question when the government will take a final decision on the construction of the railway between Gothenburg and Borås. Even if it sounds like you're positive, you don't want to give a clear message about when. But in any case, can the Minister do so most likely if it will happen before the 2022 elections or not? With this in mind, I believe that the government will not be able to make any decisions at all on this issue because it does not agree on what to do. This goes out on all affected landowners. I think it is a somewhat cynical game to keep government power when you delay an issue in this way for two terms of office.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-473	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for a good discussion! We are happy to continue it, because I appreciate the ambition to see how we can make the work even more efficient in terms of which land is used. From the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration and the county administrative boards to see how to speed up the planning process, either by providing more funds and having better planning on the county administrative boards or by the Swedish Transport Administration advance some infrastructure funds to ensure that the planning work goes faster. This is done according to wishes from the county administrative boards regarding the construction of Norrbotniabanan and Ostlänken in Östergötland. I think it is important that not too much time for the construction of important infrastructure is spent on planning work but that we can shorten the planning times. I look forward to a continued discussion on how it can be simplified and improved. When it comes to Jan Ericson, I don't really understand what he's saying. It's not the first time, certainly. This government has given information about Gothenburg – Borås. We already did this in the national plan 2018. What has created uncertainty and made conditions more difficult is a moderate party leadership that has chosen not to participate in discussions about how we finance new main roads and which has chosen relatively often to stand aside from what business, regions, municipal and regional representatives and municipalities throughout Sweden want, namely the construction of new main roads. Whether it's in West Sweden, in southern Sweden or along the entire corridor with Hässleholm, Jönköping, Linköping, Norrköping – Sweden needs more railway! But the Moderates cling to investments on the road or on other solutions. Get in the game! Make sure that we modernise Sweden to meet the climate goals and to create jobs and increase competitiveness in Swedish business. We need initiatives, both in Gothenburg and Borås as well as in other parts of the country.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-478	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl has asked me whether I and the government intend to review the zebra law and whether I and the government intend to review the regulations with bicycle passages and cross-bikes in order to get simpler and more uniform rules for motorists and cyclists. What is so bad about road safety is a success. Road traffic death rates have halved since the turn of the millennium, and for pedestrians and cyclists they have been more than halved. The government's work on road safety is based on the zero vision, where responsibility for road safety is shared between those who design and those who use the transport system. In addition, a large proportion of accidents for vulnerable road users are infrastructure-related and are due, among other things, to lack of maintenance. Both the Finnish Transport Agency and the municipalities have a great responsibility to maintain a good standard on their respective cycle paths. The fact that Sweden is a world leader in road safety, with fewer deaths than ever in traffic, is linked, among other things, to a combination of various interventions such as additional funds and regulatory changes. For the government, it is crucial that the rules contribute to a safe and secure traffic environment for all. It should be easy and safe to move around in traffic environments, not least as an unprotected user. We make profits in road safety work by investing resources where they are most useful. The Traffic Regulation states that, in view of the circumstances, drivers must maintain a sufficiently low speed so that danger does not occur at crossing points or bicycle passages. At present, the government sees no need to review the so-called zebra law. However, the work of road safety has continued to be a high priority for the government.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-484	Madam President, I would like I share Tomas Eneroth's view that we have a good goal to achieve with the zero vision. I share the view that fewer and fewer die and that fewer and fewer are injured. But we also have problems in Sweden. For example, we have very imaginative politicians out in the municipalities. Tomas Eneroth himself has been out and said no to cycling towards one-way traffic. I can assure you that if one had had to cycle towards one-way traffic, the damage would have increased significantly and, of course, also the deaths. But now it's simple. A one-way street is one-way for all vehicles driving on the street. One problem today is that a lot of people are innovative and come up with solutions. What are you supposed to say to make sure it doesn't sound wrong? The technology has entered traffic even for pedestrians and cyclists. The cell phone takes over people's lives. You go surfing and you don't pay attention. You cycle and surf at the same time. It's not good, but man is hard to change. We have, for example, bike crossings and bicycle passages. I am aware that motorists and other road users should keep up-to-date on the regulatory framework that applies in these parts. A long time ago came a street called pedestrian street. It was brand new to me. I had to look up what it was all about. A bicycle - speed street has now arrived, forcing cyclists to cycle in the middle of the street. On the sides it is cobblestone, so it becomes unpleasant to ride a bike. We can look at the weather in Sweden. Today it's pitch black out. Man is deplorable at using reflexes. In addition, vehicles are expected to stop for the pedestrians. Yeah, you're supposed to keep a low speed motorist. But what if you don't see the man suddenly swinging into the street because that man is indifferent to the motorists! Some things have also happened since we joined the European Union. You don't have to have the same lighting now. We used to have the automatic passing beam on. That's enough daytime running lights. Therefore, the cars become harder to detect. The cars are currently powered by electricity and are therefore more difficult to detect for the pedestrians. We wonder if it would not have been appropriate to have a simple rule, where you have either bike crossings or bike passages. On the whole, I would like to say that an unprotected road user is the victim of a collision. Therefore, the unprotected road user should be careful not to go out into the street and face a car. That's why I'm wondering a little bit if it wouldn't have been good to review the zebra law. The unprotected could be careful, and where it passes many people you could have traffic lights, so that there would be a guarded transition. Then you can press, get green and walk. It is much safer for the walking and hopefully a further step towards reaching the zero vision. Even at low speeds, a collision between an unprotected road user and a car becomes powerful.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! It is important that we develop methods. It is about developing mobility, not least in urban areas, and about ensuring that the protection of vulnerable road users continues. I think the last one's so important. I think that everyone can recognize their development in recent years. We have had electric scooters and electric bikes and other types of new vehicles. There's an investigation. The Swedish Transport Agency is looking at a regulation to ensure clarity of rules and a similar application. We had a development in Stockholm, where the establishment of electric scooters led to a lot of uncertainty and both incidents and accidents. I think that is how we should see the measures we have taken on the part of the government. I do not rule out cycling towards one-way traffic; in some contexts it can be a smart traffic solution. What I want is for us to have rules that are clear throughout the country. I don't want a local trial. Above all, it should be like this: If there are smart solutions that can contribute to increased mobility and safe cycling, we will of course ensure that we find national rules that the municipalities can then apply. I think that must be the starting point. A lot has happened here in recent times. With the urban environment agreements that we have decided on, we have given municipalities and regions the opportunity to develop much of the cycling activities but also the environment for pedestrians. I think we should take this into account before we point out the direction of future solutions. We recently chose to make a proposal – it has also gone through – on the possibility of setting up a bicycle street. This applies since 1 December. It is a model where the cars are the ones that have to take into account and adapt. In dense urban areas it can be a more efficient solution and a more efficient use of the land. It is often the kind of crowd you have to start from. All proposals that contribute to increased and safe cycling are of course welcome. In the continuing road safety work, I will closely monitor developments in relation to vulnerable road users. We have a development in which vehicles are becoming increasingly safer. Geofencing, connected vehicles and self-driving vehicles with a variety of new technical equipment contribute to reducing the number of road fatalities. But we also have increased mobility in cities with new types of vehicles, such as electric vehicles for one person. Then we must ensure that the rules are followed. We must also ensure that common clear national rules are established. That work is ongoing. I thank you, of course, for all the suggestions contained in the discussion. We commission the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate some of these before returning to Parliament, if necessary with new regulations. But the government's starting point – I want to be clear – is that we must promote cycling. It's a smart way to get through. It's climate smart. Thankfully, we see that more and more people choose cycling. What is important now that we spend more resources than ever on cycling is to ensure that it contributes to everyone's cycling. I see worrying trends in the decline in children's cycling. It is also not quite equal when it comes to cycling. We cannot have a bicycle policy that only adapts to the fact that men of my age will move quickly in the cities. Cycling policy should help people throughout society to enjoy the opportunity to cycle. One should be able to do it safely. It is climate-smart, and not least in pandemic times cycling is very good for those who have the opportunity to cycle.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-500	Madam President, I would like Of course it is a challenge to rebuild a built city, as the houses are already in place. Public transport shall have its surface area. And, of course, if you drive into the city, you must be able to park your car. We are, of course, following with great curiosity the new autonomy with micromobility and self-driving vehicles. But there you have to be on your toes, and I know a lot of people are. As far as autonomy is concerned, it is a question of responsibility. From what I understand from the investigation, it is the driver who is responsible. There will be a resistance to getting into a self-driving car where the driver himself is responsible and not the vehicle. Personally, I would never have let a car go that I am responsible for without performing it myself. Technology can complicate, although the hope is that it does not. Cyclicism is very positive to me. It is clear that you should be able to use cycling to be able to get to work especially during lovely summer days. But many also have a need for the car, and cars, bikes, walking and public transport share the same roads and streets. Unfortunately, that also applies to trams. We have seen this in Gothenburg, where a tram overturned an ambulance not too long ago. When we look at how we can protect these vulnerable road users – walking, cyclists and others – I would still like to see consistency. The confusion about what is a bike pass and what is a bike pass is that at one, the cyclist takes precedence and at the other, the motorist takes precedence. Why don't you have the same rule? It is now quite simple with the zebra law. If it is an unattended transition point, it is the walking that has priority. Otherwise, it is the red lights that apply. So it is quite clear there. Then it is unpleasant if you walk straight out. We have slippage and darkness, and so we have technology that interferes with the walking, which becomes less attentive. Somewhere we politicians have to take responsibility for those who do not do it themselves and make it easier to try to reach zero vision. My idea is to get an investigation into the zebra law. I know that many other countries have exactly the same law as Sweden, but they do not have the same climate. We have slipped and darkness that appears very early, and therefore I think it would have been very good to review if we could have reduced the number of accidents with just unprotected ones. I can only take one example. Now there wasn't even a crossing point on this stretch where I was out for practice harvesting with my son to take his driver's license. All of a sudden, a person walks out in the middle of the street with a cell phone. Fortunately, the son was ready and able to brake, but in such a case it is very easy to panic and instead press the gas, and then the accident had arrived. It's kind of creepy. Many are so into today's technology that they forget where they are and the danger they expose themselves to. I think it would be very desirable to have an inquiry into the zebra law.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! As far as mobile phones are concerned, I very much share the view that it is a challenge with all social media platforms and how they lead to distraction. That was one of the reasons why one of my first efforts as new Minister of Infrastructure was to propose the ban on mobile phones. Hands on the wheel, I think we called the campaign. In the past it was actually allowed to sit and talk on a mobile phone, but it is no longer, and it is to give a clear signal that you should have the attention directed forward. It's important. The slightest distraction can lead to the fact that you miss the possibility of braking, and this can lead to fatal accidents. We can, which I think is serious, still see single accidents on the road where it is likely that someone has used the mobile phone, played games or something else and driven in the ditch. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we have high attention to what new social media platforms lead to. The development of the automotive industry also means that information can now be provided to drivers with, for example, lane assist or pilot assist systems and, by correcting the car, reduce the risk of the driver making mistakes. It's a fantastic development. The challenge of self-driving vehicles or autonomous steering, as Jimmy Ståhl mentions, is the driver's concept. There's no doubt about it. Even though we currently mainly have support systems that mean that you as a driver are in charge but the car helps you to handle the situation – for example when parking or following the sidelines – it is still important to find a model where we can have completely autonomous vehicles. The legal challenge with the driver's concept must then be solved either as Mr Bjelvenstam's investigation points out, namely that the responsibility lies with the owner of the vehicle, or that it lies, for example, with the vehicle companies. There are a few different discussions and traditions within the countries of Europe, so development work is ongoing. This must not take time to delay the implementation of new, safe vehicles with an increased degree of self-governing functions. Let me say something about cycling, because I think it is important. In the past, bicycle policy was municipal. It was in municipalities and regions that questions about cycling were dealt with. We have chosen to raise it at national level. In national planes, we spent 1.5 billion in targeted funds in so-called trimming measures precisely for cycling. So much resources have never been given nationally to cycling. In the framework of big city negotiations, 440 million have been decided in bicycle objects in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund, Stockholm and Gothenburg. We have the urban environment agreement, where a great deal of cycling is done. In the latest budget bill it was probably 650 million SEK for various bicycle projects. It is our way of not only supporting municipalities and regions that take responsibility, but also clearly pointing out those who do not take responsibility: you must develop your cycling. Cycling has not only come to stay – it will be developed to increase mobility, and therefore we are making more financial contributions than ever. We follow up with regulatory changes that simplify, improve and clarify what applies, not least at the latest when it comes to cycling streets, as municipalities that want to try. There the bike takes precedence over, for example, the cars, and it is the cars that have to adjust their speed. It is a smart way to find a solution in narrow urban environments that contributes to increased interaction but also increased conditions for cycling. I think that is how we need to work forward. As Jimmy Ståhl points out, we cannot rebuild cities, but we can make it easier for municipal politicians, city planners and others to contribute to increased cycling. We do it with national funds and support now.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-518	Madam President, I would like The bike is here to stay. With the help of the electric bike it has become so much easier to cycle even longer distances. This also applies to spontaneous cycling, since you can rent scooters. I share the view of the Minister for Infrastructure with regard to mobile telephony. We, too, have pushed this issue, and I am delighted that it has been implemented. The problem is that cyclists also use the mobile phone today. One is in such a hurry that one is inattentive, and compared to one walk comes a cycle at enormous speeds. Elassistance stops at 25 kilometers per hour, but 25 kilometers per hour can be relatively fast, and in some cities there are also slopes where we have been able to measure speeds of over 50 kilometers per hour when crossing intersections. So I mean that we may need to look at the regulations on bicycle passage versus bicycle crossing precisely to protect the cyclists themselves, because I honestly believe, Tomas Eneroth, that very few people have a hard line on those rules. I'm on the Transport Committee myself, and I had to check which one of them has priority and not. To make it easy: I guess Tomas Eneroth knows that at bike crossing the bikes are allowed to pass. At the same time, it is also about speed, because I think that if a bicycle comes at a terrible speed, it is difficult for a car to detect it, and then the accident can be there. We would have had to have similar rules.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-522	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! I think it is important for more people to participate and make proposals, both in terms of how to design the cycling infrastructure and what regulatory changes are needed. There is, as I said, continuous work going on here, and that is because we spend more resources than ever on developing cycling with national funds. I see some municipalities go ahead. Swedish Cycling Cities is an association that highlights municipalities that make good efforts, whether it's about Uppsala, Lund or other places where you do incredibly good cycling efforts. I was recently in Malmö – or recently; it was this summer when we still got to travel – and looked at how to develop cycling throughout the city. Nevertheless, I would like to use the last part of my speaking time to say something about this. I am concerned that we will have a cycle debate which only deals with the possibility for well-established adult men to make their way as quickly as possible in the big cities. It's important. But it is also important that children and young people can cycle, that people from all walks of life can cycle, that cycling becomes an alternative that feels safe and self-evident. Major efforts need to be made in urban planning and to promote cycling. Civil society can be an important part of this, and that is why we from the government have given extra support to civil society organisations, such as the NTF and Cycling Promotion, to promote cycling. There must also be a change of attitude along with regulatory changes, so that cycling is not for a few but for many more. Personally, I like to ride my racer quickly, but I don't do that in town but on highways in Småland. Inside the city I cycle in a completely different way. Then I'll consider other road users. I want it to be a safe urban environment with more cycle paths and more common consideration.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-528	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl has asked me what the government and I are doing to enable more coastal shipping and more traffic on our inland waterways. Maritime transport has an absolutely crucial role to play in our foreign trade and supply. But it is also important for making our transport system more sustainable and efficient, not least in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport. In addition, an increased share of shipping in freight transport contributes to reduced congestion and fewer accidents on land. It is therefore important to increase the share of shipping in national freight transport, that is, on our inland waterways and along our coasts, but also in our neighbourhood. The transfer of freight transport from road to shipping increases transport efficiency and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. The government intends to continue to promote the transfer from road transport to shipping and to strengthen intermodality, as it is called, in the transport system. The government has already implemented a number of measures within the framework of the national freight transport strategy with a view to increasing the choice of shipping as a transport option. These include the introduction of eco-bonus, the establishment of a national coordinator for shipping at the Finnish Transport Administration and the identification of more inland waterways. In November, the Government decided on an additional mission to the National Coordinator. The mission is to create incentives for the transfer of goods from road to shipping through dialogue with Swedish ports and to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping. Ports play an important role in increasing the share of freight transport by sea.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-533	Madam President, I would like Shipping is close to my heart. As a Gothenburger and in my former profession from which I am on leave, that is to say, port labour, I can only love shipping. Shipping has given me my income all these years. As the Minister points out, there is an untapped inland waterway and an almost non-existent coastal sea transport. In 2014, the EU introduced a regulatory framework in which Sweden has the opportunity to develop and operate inland navigation. Inland shipping can be carried out with barges running in protected waters. Great opportunities are given in Stockholm, for example, to remove snow masses during the winter or to remove excavations from the buildings. Goods can also be transported. There are great opportunities for inland navigation. But what happened? It's almost nothing. Much of it is about heavy charges. Inland shipping does not exist in the Swedish Maritime Administration's profit and loss account. But since there is no inland navigation, there is also no income for the Swedish Maritime Administration. In order to get inland navigation going, it would have been possible not to charge charges on inland waterways. In this way a functioning traffic would be started. There are great opportunities to relieve roads between Gothenburg and Vänerhamn, for example. Railway can be built to Kristinehamn. Then freight flows from Norrland can go by rail to Kristinehamn, and then ships can go the rest of the way. Ports in Lake Mälaren have repeatedly experienced major problems with the costs for ships to add to a Mälarhamn: around 94,000 per unit. We know that Norvik started a port with the idea of transhipping cargo on ships and transporting it to Mälarhamns, but it is too expensive. It is now cheaper to transport goods by lorry. It's horrible. Ships provide the opportunity to carry a lot of cargo efficiently. A ship can handle 500 units. This corresponds to approximately 350 trucks in a single transport operation. The ports say they can handle much more goods. Now the amount of goods has not decreased during the pandemic, which is good. On the other hand, passenger ships have lost a great deal, but I stick to coastal and inland navigation. It's the same with coastal shipping. For every port you enter, you go on a fairway fee. It is clear that some ports will be dropped because it will be too expensive. This means that the goods are on their way instead. That's not good.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-538	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Jimmy Ståhl's commitment. It's important. I think at some point I've joked that I'm a little boy. My nearest port at home in Växjö is Helgahavet. I don't have any ports in my vicinity, but I love shipping and I am passionate about continuing to strengthen Swedish shipping because it is so incredibly important. It is about reaching the climate targets in themselves because shipping is climate-smart. It is also a question of relieving the traffic we see as the volume of goods increases on our roads. Ever since I took office as Minister of State, the government has made great efforts to promote shipping. The national coordinator Pia Berglund is doing a fantastic job of developing an 62-point action programme to promote shipping in various ways, not least to find new roads and to ensure that transport buyers are aware of the smart options available and remove the obstacles to the establishment of new routes. It is also a question of involving ports in a dialogue. We made the first national collection for the ports ever when I invited everyone to the then Ministry of Industry. Since then I have had a close dialogue with the ports. They are now developing their role from being traditional ports to being nodes in the transport system. The harbour of Gothenburg is, of course, in a class by itself. It is not only Sweden's but also the largest and most important port in the Nordic region. There is a fantastic development work going on. This also applies in Trelleborg, Piteå and in many other ports. There is a development work going on to strengthen Swedish shipping. It is about automating and streamlining the conditions for a well-functioning shipping, not least together with the advice and process that is going on within the framework of the national coordinator Pia Berglund's mission. At the same time, we should remember that we are not just talking about fairway charges. There are port charges, and they are in many cases the more expensive charge. That is the background to the task we have given to the coordinator, that is to see what the overall burden of fees actually looks like and what efforts can be made to promote and make it even more possible to develop Swedish shipping. I appreciate Jimmy Ståhl's commitment to shipping, but I still want to be clear and say that the competitive advantage will not be lower for land transport and lorries when the Swedish Democrats propose a reduction in petrol tax. There is a serious desire for cheap land transport by diesel or petrol lorries. If we really want to create sustainable solutions and take responsibility for the climate, it is electrification and biofuels that apply to road transport. But we must also ensure that the competitiveness of shipping is achieved and make it more favourable, for example, with eco-bonus or other types of financial incentives. That's how we take responsibility. In this way, not every part of the transport system can call out for what various organisations think is the most important thing. In this situation, in the climate crisis we have, to talk about and discuss the need for lower petrol prices, I do not think that is responsible. If we are to make a transition with biofuels and electrification and get more goods by rail and shipping, the party's policy must also take responsibility for this. We're doing it on the government's side. We point out the clear guideline: Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We do so by making more investment than ever, not least in shipping. We do this with clear instruments and economic priorities, but also with processes, the work of the Freight Transport Council and not least Pia Berglund's excellent work as a national coordinator. That is how we ensure that the share of inland and coastal shipping is increased.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-546	Madam President, I would like I hope that shipping will increase. But from 2014 – now it is 2021 – there has been virtually no inland navigation. We are operating ships with IMO rules, that is to say rules applicable to maritime traffic. It's not good for shipping. Shipping has talked about the issue of tonnage tax. It was to be evaluated after a few years. It's been four years. I was about two years ago at a meeting where Minister Tomas Eneroth was also, and where we flagged the 100th Swedish ship, which was great fun. But what has happened since then? The number of vessels has both decreased and increased, so today we still have about 100 vessels. There have been calls in shipping for certain things that are thought to benefit shipping. It is about re-establishing the net model and developing so that more people are affected by the implementation of the tonnage tax – even offshore operations, I heard today at the committee meeting. Then, for example, it is important to change a barrier to getting Swedish ships in by changing the stamp tax to a stamp fee, which would have meant less resistance to becoming Swedish for many shipping companies. This applies not least now that England has left the EU. Many shipping companies want to leave England and could have been flagged by Sweden, but they have chosen not to do so. It is important that shipping is increased and given opportunities. The Swedish Maritime Administration is currently a work that bleeds financially. I've been to seminars with the Swedish Maritime Administration looking at the harsh reality they're facing. The numbers shine red, and they will continue to shine red. If we do not act against the Swedish Maritime Administration and either help them or try to reshape them and convert the Swedish Maritime Administration from a business to a grant agency, the economic spiral will continue, which means that shipping is subject to more and more charges. Lottery fees are increasing. At Södertäljeslussen you have found that you have not had a boatman fee, which you introduce. You remove discounts. I understand that the Swedish Maritime Administration is grasping all the means they can because it is a business. This weighs on shipping. One of the shipowners said jokingly that the last ship takes the full cost. It's not good for shipping. Someone who also worries me is that if we do not get shipping started today, we have a threat that will make shipping much more difficult in the future. That's also an opportunity, I have to say. The Fehmarn Belt tunnel is currently being built between Germany and Denmark. It will provide increased opportunities for rail transport. It is also hoped that we will find another land-based solution between Sweden and Denmark. Which is what we will have to deal with in another debate. But what if we do not get logistics to find possible routes to choose shipping? You usually take the fastest, easiest and cheapest route. Shipping is a safe road. It takes time. You can drive a lot. You can keep it in storage on the way. Unfortunately, though, today the truck is a very important factor for many logistics in terms of just in time. Shipping is extremely important, Madam President.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-551	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Jimmy Ståhl for his commitment. However, I note that I did not receive an answer to the question of reduced petrol prices and reduced diesel taxes. Basically, politics is often about choosing. It is clear, however, that the Swedish Democrats quite often choose what is not good for the climate. In this case, the choice is to propose, for example, reductions in petrol and diesel prices rather than promoting shipping. I hope that I will have an answer to that in Jimmy Ståhl's next speech. Then, of course, it is a tough challenge for shipping, not least during the pandemic. This is one of the reasons why we have made extensive efforts, whether it be the possibility to apply from the Export Credit Board, EKN, for shipping companies or the adaptation of maritime subsidies, which were very welcome for shipping and were an important contribution. We follow developments and do what we can to support and help shipping. For ferry traffic it has been a tough challenge. There's no doubt about it. In the same way, we follow up with infrastructure efforts. As far as the Port of Gothenburg is concerned, I recently noted that the municipal council and the region have supported the depth of fairway that we announced in 2018 in the national plan, so that we can implement it. It is incredibly important for the long term for the Port of Gothenburg. Recently, actors in Gothenburg, together with a shipping company and two well-known vehicle producers in Sweden, also presented their ambition to build smart and sustainable transport with the Port of Gothenburg as their hub. It is a fantastic development that will of course strengthen shipping, but also make it more sustainable, so that it can be an example and perhaps be part of that permanent world exhibition that I think we should try to develop in Sweden. From Luleå we heard signals that it is now ready with the municipality's and other actors' co-financing of Malmporten. Even there we get a proper investment in a fairway deepening, which strengthens the capacity in Luleå harbour. This is probably so important in a situation where LKAB announces major investments and investments – not to mention steel but coal, Hybrid, and Northvolt's large battery factory in Skellefteå. When thousands of billions are invested in Norrland, it is important to follow up the infrastructure. This applies, of course, to the railways and, of course, to the carrying capacity of the roads, but it is also a question of ensuring that shipping is a clear alternative. Then it is true that the Swedish Maritime Administration, like the industry, has suffered the economic effects of the pandemic. I think we can also see it at the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia. If you have an activity that is also financed by charges based on the volume of traffic you will suffer if the volume of traffic decreases. That is why we have had to go in with extra efforts to our authorities in order to contribute to a situation where the economy is under pressure from the pandemic. No new funds will be provided depending on whether it is a work or an authority. It is nevertheless the case that activities must be financed. It is a bit contradictory to JimmyStåhl on the one hand, the increase in fairway fees and, on the other hand, to protect the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. In that case, you have to change up and tell us how other budgetary resources will be set aside for the Swedish Maritime Administration to have an even better economy. I believe that this is an important prerequisite. The Swedish Maritime Administration is doing a fantastic job, not least during the pandemic, but also has a somewhat freer role as a business than grant agencies in developing new methods and promoting shipping in a way that an ordinary authority cannot. Nevertheless, let us see that this is an important task for the Swedish Maritime Administration to promote Swedish shipping!
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-558	Madam President, I would like As far as the petrol and diesel taxes are concerned, I do not know whether it is the government itself that loves tax increases or whether you are influenced by the Green Party, but the increase in indexation that the government put on vehicles means that we consumers have a harder way to get cheap and good goods. This also makes it difficult for the companies that deliver. In addition, choosing to drive bonuses – malus and taxing the automotive industry again, we do not see it as positive. To return to shipping, such as coastal shipping, we have, for example, in Trelleborg and Ystad a huge traffic of ro-ro cargo, which could simply be transhipped and driven up the coast. There, fairway charges are an obstacle. We have many ports, but due to fairway charges it is expensive to enter the ports. It goes without saying that the ports have a fee – they have a business. They have to pay for the quays, for the machines and for the fuel that drives the machines, so of course they have a fee. But why do we have a system of fairway dues that makes it very expensive to drive goods by ship when we could have made a change and carried much more goods, for example on ships? We have a wonderful Baltic coast almost from Kiruna – or at least Luleå – all the way down to Gothenburg where we could have shipped out a lot. Gothenburg does a huge environmental work that changes its machines and drives much more with electricity. Electricity is the future in this industry as well. Once again, shipping is very important.
i-26df9af1d0462e7a-563	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that there are very many strong reasons to promote Swedish shipping and to promote the development of ports. This is one of my heart issues. I also think that during these years we have really made historically great efforts by the government in lifting shipping into national planes with a triple of investments, to ensure not least Gothenburg and Luleå, to have a national coordinator, to introduce financial incentives that promote Swedish shipping and not least during a pandemic make important efforts. Shipping is important; there is no doubt about it. We can certainly share the level of ambition and interest there, but it is of course worrying when the Swedish Democrats at the same time say yes to reduced petrol taxes, say no to bonuses – malus and want reduced fairway fees, reduced stamp taxes and more money for shipping. I believe that most people who follow the discussion realise that this economy does not eventually make sense. It is not possible to both reduce all taxes and want more money for all activities and believe that this is a solution. Politics is about choosing. Politics is about being clear in the long-term development. Our government is clear: Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We're going to reset. An important part of this is the transport sector, and one of its major constraints is on it. There is now a major shift in electrification, biofuels and, not least, transport efficiency. More goods must then be lifted by rail and by sea. An important part of developing maritime transport is to strengthen the capacity of ports and to promote maritime transport, not least coastal shipping and inland navigation, so that this too – and not just the export industry – becomes a clear alternative. In this way, I think we are well on our way. Much remains to be done, but we have chosen the path. The Swedish democrats choose all roads – it does not last in the long run.
