i-e53f454f2ed234c8-2	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by quoting Vilhelm Moberg from the book Your Time on Earth: Watch it, watch it, watch it, watch Don't lose it! Because now it's your moment on earth! ..................................................... It is our responsibility to take care of our brief moments here on earth, where we take care of our fellow humans, our nature, and our surroundings. But our common moment here on earth is changing drastically. The climate crisis we are in is acute. It will require more global cooperation, and it will require a solid green society in our country – a community building that creates a better society than what we once inherited. Together, we will devote our time on earth to saving the most important thing we have, namely our planet. Mr President, I would like to A hundred years ago, Sweden became a democracy thanks to the persistent struggle of Social Democrats and Liberals. Although cooperation had been difficult in the past, and despite strong opposition from the Conservatives, democracy could be implemented together in Sweden. It is with political agreements and coalitions between democratic parties that we can take our country forward. This is how Swedish democracy is built. That's still the case. Now some parties claim that cooperation and compromises would be tampering with democracy or ignoring the will of the people, and we have heard similar claims from right-wing conservative leaders around the world. However, it creates mistrust of the legitimacy of the outcome of the elections, and in this way it is also discredited by our institutions and authorities. We see how it is done in several countries. Now we see that's happening here too. Mr President, I would like to The same parties also want to shift the focus from what has opened the door to a party that wants to break up what builds Sweden strongly, i.e. equality, freedom and democracy. It is a party inspired by countries such as Poland and Hungary and the development we see there now, where democracy is being eroded step by step, where free media and academia are being restricted, where climate crisis denial and conspiracy theories are spreading, where women's and LGBTQ people's rights are being curtailed, and where the threat to Jews and other groups is increasing. I can understand the desire to shift the focus away from this very fact, but voters have the right to know what risks those parties are prepared to take when it comes to giving decisive power to a party that wants to destroy what so many people love about our country. Mr President, I would like to The government had the great honour of welcoming Germany's Federal President Frank-Walter-Walter Steinmeier to Sweden last week. He said that freedom and the rule of law must be conquered and can never be considered self-evident, either in Berlin or in Stockholm. Germany knows how fragile democracy is. There the broad right has closed the door to right-wing extremism. This way the Swedish right wing could have chosen. Sweden is not in any way vaccinated against the kind of anti-democratic and authoritarian upheavals that we see around our world. Democracy cannot be taken for granted. It begins and ends with us as citizens. Mr President, I would like to I am a Social Democrat because I believe that together we can create a much better world than we have seen so far. I know that the construction of the community will never be finished. We must constantly move our country forward. There are major challenges in our society. There are rifts in our common welfare. Too many people are out of work. The disgusting gang crime is killing human lives. Not least, there is an acute climate crisis. But none of those challenges are too great for us to be able to cope with them anyway. Society is man's work, which together we can create and change. Mr President, I would like to I am also a social democrat because I want to build a society that is so strong that people do not have to be weak. That's why we redesigned politics in 2014 and started building a society for a more equal and sustainable Sweden. That is why we are making historical investments in welfare, and that is why we want to settle with the failure of the right-wing market experiments that have damaged our welfare. We are all dependent on a strong welfare that is there for us from the cradle to the grave. That is why we are ensuring that those who become unemployed or ill face strong support and clear demands, but not poverty and hopelessness. We know that employers are not hiring people because they have become poor, but because they have the necessary training for the job. That is why Sweden will lead the climate change that the whole world must do. The new industrialisation that is taking place in Sweden shows that it is possible to both reduce emissions and create new jobs. That is why we are investing in more police officers and tougher penalties, while at the same time fighting the breeding ground for gang crime with the forces of society as a whole. We listen to the police, who say that it takes effort to strengthen school and social services so that the recruitment of gangs can be broken. The choice in a year's time will be between greater cohesion, community and security or an open door to forces that threaten what we love most about Sweden, namely welfare, community and trust. It will be a choice for which Sweden we want. Mr President, I would like to I am a Social Democrat because I know that we humans have so much more in common than we differ. I am a social democrat because I believe that everyone has the right to security and community. We can choose how we want to take advantage of our time on earth, if we want to devote our time to adding to mistrust and allowing the split to increase, or if we want to build a stronger society, a more sustainable world and a stronger community. I know what I choose to spend my time on Earth.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-16	Mr President, I would like to After many years of work in Swedish politics, this is Stefan Lövven's last parliamentary debate. In Sweden we have a tradition that I like, namely to distinguish between thing and person. You can disapprove of an opinion but respect the person behind it. This is close to the classical ideals of freedom of expression: I disagree with what you say, but I am prepared to die for your right to say so. Let me return to Stefan Löfven a little later today. Today, we must also evaluate the results of the government. It is time to take stock of their seven years in power. Nothing has affected Sweden as much in these years as the serious crime. Since the government took office in 2014, gang crime has both figuratively and literally exploded. Sweden has more shootings than any analogue country. This summer was the bloodiest in Swedish history. This spreads terror in residential areas and neighborhoods. Explosions and shootings are the most extreme expressions, but we see it in more areas. For the past seven years, sexual crimes have tripled and robbery of children more than doubled. More and more parents do not let the children go home by themselves. No one in here wants it to be like this, of course not. But this government has not given priority to what is really important for our country, has not been able to make the important decisions. For me, it is provocative to spend billions on a family week when the real problem is that one person is shot to death every week. At the same time, long-term unemployment is approaching 200 000 people. This is the highest figure in Swedish history. We have the EU's fourth highest unemployment rate after Greece, Italy and Spain – a bit from the lowest in the EU. Child poverty and overcrowding are spreading in Sweden's vulnerable suburbs. Problems that Sweden has once solved are now coming back. And year after year the government misses the Swedish climate targets. According to the Climate Policy Council, an emission debt is being built up. Fossil-free nuclear power is being phased out. This leads to increased emissions. Time and again, Sweden suffers from a shortage of electricity. This is a rather bleak financial statement. Of course there are sparkles of light. Swedish public finances are strong in Europe, and there is now broad consensus on strengthening defence. That's good. But otherwise the problems are big, and they have gotten worse. This doesn't just mean me and the Moderates. Survey after examination shows that a large majority of Swedish people think that Sweden is developing in the wrong direction. But do not despair! All financial statements open for a new start, and the Moderates are ready to gather people to the task of getting order on Sweden. This does not require miracles, but it requires a government that understands the problems and takes hold of those who say as it is who focus on the issues and who can talk to everyone to get something done too. If polarisation, division and political games had solved any problems, Sweden today would not have any problems at all. Work to get Sweden in order must begin immediately after the election. Three questions are more important than everyone else. First of all, crime. Sweden has more criminality than other countries but also weaker legislation. Adjustments in the margin are not enough. The Moderates want to use Sweden's own terror laws against the criminal gangs, which already exist in Denmark and Finland. Gang members shall be marked point-marked. They're being bugged, and we're making house calls. Those who are members of criminal gangs but not Swedish citizens shall be expelled. We are going to introduce search zones, double penalties for gang criminals and many more police officers, who are wholeheartedly supported in their important work. The second major issue is long-term unemployment. Sweden needs an economic policy for jobs and entrepreneurship and against exclusion and dependency on grants. This requires a premium ceiling and reduced tax on low incomes so that it always pays better to work than to live on benefits. And everyone who is new in Sweden should learn the Swedish language in order to become employable and be able to understand both rights and obligations. That is why we will introduce language requirements and that we will have to work our way into welfare step by step. A new government will reduce immigration, otherwise we will never be able to cope with integration. The third question is how Sweden will be the best in the world in terms of conversion and green growth. Climate change is a threat to humanity. The latest UN report confirms the previous ones. At the same time, we now know more about the solutions, and commitment has never been as strong before. Everyone wants to contribute to the transition – citizens and employees, consumers and suppliers, companies and shareholders. Swedish companies invest billions in sustainability. Now politics must go hand in hand with business. A new government will ensure clean, stable electricity supply and defend all fossil-free electricity generation – hydro, wind and nuclear. We will simplify licensing processes and remove bureaucratic obstacles, and we will stand up for Swedish forestry and individual ownership rights. Crime, unemployment and the climate – these are the three areas where Sweden needs to get a new course and a new start. It will take time, and that is why we need to start now. It will be difficult, but it is not impossible. We will work day and night to reverse developments and get Sweden in order.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-30	Mr President, I would like to Seven years of fair speeches. Seven years of promises that have never been made, and we are here with the facts. We stand here with a lack of security spreading like wildfire across the country. Places where we grew up, places where we felt safe, are today in many parts of the country completely torn apart by insecurity and misery. A wave of shootings and other violent crimes sweeps over the country. In August alone, ten killings were committed. That's the highest figure that's been measured for a single month since we started measuring. There are over 250 open murder investigations in Stockholm alone. Gunshots in public places among innocent citizens are more or less continuous. Add to this all the forgotten everyday crimes that don't give big headlines: burglary in homes and cars, bikes stolen, fraud, threats and harassment from loud so-called youth gangs, children being robbed of clothes and valuables and subjected to sexual abuse and so on. Criminal gangs take over streets, blocks and entire neighborhoods. Only a few weeks ago two clans came together in Lund. They settled outside the ER in broad daylight. You hardly believe that to be true, Mr President. Horror and fear are winning. Of course, all of this leads to more insecurity. This means that ordinary, honest people are forced to adapt their lives, not according to how they want to live their own lives, but according to how the criminals decide to live. Sweden must not continue to surrender to empathetic individuals who belong behind bars. And we must, Mr President, dare to see the reality as it really is. The recent Brå report on criminal backgrounds provides some useful clues. A majority, i.e. the vast majority, of all suspects are persons with foreign background. A majority of those suspected of gross female discrimination and a majority of all suspects of rape are persons with foreign background. Among men who are second-generation immigrants with background in Africa, almost one person in three were suspected of crimes during the 2015–2018 measurement period. It's a four-year measurement period. Every three. This is something that governments, both now and in the past, have been turning a blind eye to for decades and sweeping under the carpet. It has been refused to investigate because Stefan Löfven and the others simply did not want to know what they have done for Sweden and for the Swedes. However uncomfortable it is for the other parties in this House, Mr President, it is a fact that we were right and you were wrong. It's so simple. And when we get the opportunity to rule Sweden, we will not only be right. We will also do the right thing. Sweden has 300 000 poor pensioners, and the vast majority of them are women. A majority of Swedes are worried about their pension. We have one of Europe's highest retirement ages, while we have one of Europe's highest tax burdens. It's not worthy of a welfare country like Sweden to treat its old ones that way – it's actually pure debauchery. Mr President, I can and will make a promise here and now to all current and future pensioners in Sweden. Pensions will be a crucial issue for us in future cooperation. Anyone seeking the support of the Swedish Democrats should therefore share that priority. In this context, Mr President, it is of course crucial that more people in Sweden work. But what would be Europe's lowest unemployment is now, instead, one of Europe's highest. You can't close your eyes anymore. We have 700 000 immigrants in this country who are not self-sufficient. It goes without saying, Mr President, that this creates enormous imbalances in welfare and in all parts of society. We need a new government!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-42	Mr President, I would like to Finally! During my ten years as a party leader, I and other center parties have been all that has often been completely alone in highlighting our Swedish countryside. But now we can finally see a change, as more and more parties and politicians lift their eyes and take in the whole country's perspective. This is welcome and important, because it is about the conditions for the many millions of people living outside our major cities. It is about the vital parts of our country where the forest, ore, energy and food are. Our countryside deserves more attention from more people – not only through fine words and shorter visits, but through a constructive policy that makes a difference in people's everyday lives and takes our rural, rural and rural areas along the way. There is so much of what is crucial here for a stronger Sweden. There is entrepreneurial power and innovation, and there is sustainable agriculture here. Agriculture and forests provide us with renewable fuels and climate-smart building materials. Lower taxes, less hassle, smart solutions and green investments for everyone who lives off and in our countryside are crucial, both for individual people's freedom and success and for the success of Sweden as a whole. That is why the Center Party is so clear that we want to make beach protection fairer in order to give more power and the opportunity to live, build and develop their lives around the country, to remove insane rules that strike the countryside in general and the hinterland of Norrland in particular and give future faith and freedom to more people. This is also why we are trying to continue to fight for strengthened ownership of Sweden's forest owners – for people who have cared for and managed their forests in a sustainable way for generations and who have long been, and still are, the guarantor of both jobs and biodiversity and at the same time provide us with the forest's renewable resources. We must harness the power of every human being, no matter where in the country they choose to live. We must also link our country better in order to make the best use of these powers. We must continue to invest in roads, railways and fibres and in a functioning school and accessible care throughout the country and ensure that security applies to everyone, in rural areas and in our vulnerable areas and suburbs. We must greatly expand our Swedish electricity grids, increase our electricity generation and ensure that clean, renewable electricity comes to the fore throughout Sweden, from north to south and from heavy base industry to innovative, green startups – for example, to the hangar at Säve Airport outside Gothenburg, where we are now part of creating our green future. In the premises of Heart Aerospace, a fully electric aircraft is being built, which, when it is ready, will be able to fly 400 km on a charge, without carbon dioxide emissions. Already, the world's third largest airline, United Airlines, has signed up for 100 aircraft. Green, climate-smart aviation is becoming a reality, and a Swedish company is leading the development. This can be the result of tough, long-term climate goals and growth-oriented, ambitious enterprise policies. Innovation, technology and the power of individuals can make a difference and take Sweden and the world forward towards becoming greener, smarter and smoother. If we are to be able to solve the climate crisis that has been painfully reminded during the summer, there is no other way forward. Then we must clearly point out a direction from the political side, with ambitious climate targets and emission reductions. We must continue to invest in new technologies such as hydrogen and minus emissions and continue to build even stronger cooperation in the EU, which can take precedence and, at the same time, pressure large emitters like China to really change. Then we must continue to give the power and freedom to companies to lead technological development. The Center Party will continue to be a green, liberal, independent force for this – for a Sweden that is moving forward for the climate, security and rural areas and for a Sweden that is holding together, where we continue to develop together. We will be a constructive force for more open, honest collaborations in the middle of Swedish politics. We know that this is where the power and ideas are to move forward and see that Sweden should be a green role model in the outside world and to take people out of mistrust and insecurity and harness all the enormous power that exists across the country. We will be a force because tomorrow's Sweden is also Sweden of opportunity – and we mean Sweden as a whole.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-51	Mr President, I would like to It is a year to the ordinary elections; if there are more elections before then I leave unsaid. We have a historically weak government, which has chosen not to take the support of a majority in the Swedish Parliament. This government will leave behind mass unemployment, the Wild West in the Swedish school system and an understaffing of care, which is toiling on both carers and employees. In the days, the income pension supplement, which according to the Government amounts to SEK 600. However, only over half of pensioners are affected, and those with the lowest incomes receive nothing at all. The vast majority receive significantly less than the 600 kroner. We know what everyday life looks like for many of Sweden's pensioners."The Express wrote about it just over a month ago. It's about seriously ill Maria, who worked at school and now uses savings money to afford food. It's about the assistant nurse Irma, who still works hours and is homeless, and about the bus driver Lars, who is 69 years old and has a aching body but has to keep working to make it work together. In caravans live pensioners who can't afford anything else. How can the Social Democrats call the small supplement an investment in Sweden's pensioners? Getting an extra 50 can't be what makes the whole difference for Lars. We are the longest-working country in the EU. Yet we are in the bottom line of the European Union with regard to pensions. Why do so many parties in Parliament, from right to left, hold on to the current dysfunctional pension system? In addition, social democrats and moderates during this parliamentary term have joined forces to raise the retirement age, which was, of course, a major mistake. In the run-up to the autumn budget, the Left Party has clearly stated that the lowest pension must be increased, in order to raise Swedish pensions step by step. Sweden's seniors deserve better. Mr President, I would like to In fact, over the last 15 years, it has not mattered whether it has been moderates or social democrats who have been in government. They have bothimplemented draconianreductions in health insurance and have secured severely ill persons. It is Sweden's employees and entrepreneurs who pay their own health insurance. It is theirs, and it will occur in the event of illness, injury and accident. Last year, in the midst of a health crisis and a pandemic, Försäkringskassan beat a new record in rejecting applications for sickness benefit. The Social Security Ministers have been named Ulf Kristersson and Annika Strandhäll. They have both failed severely ill people in need of care and rehabilitation. I know two such people myself. They have been diagnosed with cancer that has required extensive treatment. They have both had to use their remaining time and energy to argue with Försäkringskassan, who does not accept certificates and wants them to resign and become unemployed full-time instead of working part-time in their current work and taking advantage of the work capacity they actually have. The rigid rules have become a nightmare. Health insurance needs to be renovated immediately, and that is a good step on the road that the government is now taking in the state budget, where the Left Party is meeting in several parts. But even more is needed for employees' self-funded health insurance to become a reliable insurance policy. In addition, of course, it is self-evident that the current unemployment fund needs to be made permanent. In a modern economy that is constantly evolving, jobs can come and go, not least when business is going to undergo a green transition. It requires a reliable unemployment fund, and I assume that the government will announce that the unemployment fund will be permanent in the autumn and will not choose to abstain just to use the issue in the electoral movement. Sweden's employees need to know today that they are protected. They should not be part of a Social Democratic election-strategic theatre performance. Pensions, health insurance and unemployment insurance need to be renovated in order to restore the Swedish model. Sweden needs to be built strong again.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-63	Mr President, I would like to In 361 days, the Swedish people will go to elections. In 361 days it will be the day of democracy, and we will finally be able to vote. In 361 days' time, the Swedish people will have their say about this government and about the red-green rule that has now been decided for almost eight years. The question that every voter must ask himself is whether Sweden has become better or worse – a better or a worse country under the leadership of the Red-Greens. Does welfare work better, does the country's government work better, does it make the investments needed to secure jobs in the future, and are we more secure? Everyone has to make an evaluation of this term of office. It is part of one's duty as a citizen, but I urge everyone to look at reality. On the fruit you know the tree. I know there are some people who have lost a little faith in politics. They see many deteriorations in our welfare and security, but they want to believe that change is possible. They're despondent, but they're looking for a brave alternative. They feel in their hearts that politics must take responsibility and dare to do more, and they are looking for an alternative with their hearts in the right place. But who are you supposed to believe in? I will never promise gold and green forests. Anyone who claims it can do everything perfectly promises more than it can keep. But I can tell you about four principles that will guide us, no matter what the future holds. The first is that Christian democracy is about others. We are not and have never been a party organized around class or self-interest. We are driven by making life better for others, our fellow human beings, and by creating community. That is why we always highlight the importance of the family, a functioning care, security and care for the most vulnerable in our society. The second principle is that we are prepared to talk to everyone. We are prepared to settle with everyone and to cooperate with all parties here in the Swedish Parliament if that is what is required and what is best for Sweden. Politics is not about posing with fine ideals – politics is about making a real difference. The third principle is that we are prepared to leave the same talks and collaborations and leave the room if demands are made that are contrary to our fundamental values. Deals have no intrinsic value. Deals about the wrong policy for Sweden are just wrong for Sweden. We are prepared to make deals that move Sweden forward. The fourth principle is: If the possibility arises, you can trust that KD will take the chance. We will take the chance to change Sweden for the better. Political options without the courage to act are also without the courage to lead. We do not shrink back from the acute problems that have often paralysed the red - green ones. We will cut the queues of care, create a workable legal policy, secure the future of climate-smart nuclear power and give us a sustainable migration policy. If you're looking for a brave alternative to four more years of red-green, we're Christian Democrats. We don't promise everything to everyone, but we keep our promises. Two people who have not given up hope of change are Staffan Danielsson, former MP and Federal Board member of the LRF, and Mikael Bäckström, today Chairman of the LRF Entreprenad. They have come from the Center Party to contribute to a bourgeois electoral victory. I admit, it's not a full-scale peasant uprising yet, but the budcavel is leaving. We welcome them, and we welcome everyone else who wants to see a policy for the whole of Sweden to work. Come with me to the Christian Democrats! There are 361 days left before the election. Do you want to change? You want to stop the shootings? Do you want the care queues to be hijacked, so that the whole of Sweden will work? Do you want things to be different from today? Yes, then more people will have to vote differently than today. If you want more of the same, okay, vote for the same gang then, but if you want change, vote for change! We haven't given up hope. We know we can turn this around. Together we can create a Sweden to trust, a Sweden where the whole of Sweden works.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-78	Mr President, I would like to In two weeks, Sweden will be reopened to a more updated normal state, at least for all people who have been able and responsibly chosen to vaccinate. It is a difficult time that we are now hopefully leaving behind. It has been a pandemic that has required a great deal of effort and sacrifice for many people, not least in healthcare, school and care. Companies, cultural activities, communities, associations and sports have been pushed to the breaking point, and sometimes that limit has been crossed. Social care has been under pressure. Now there is much for us here to do to restore elderly care and LSS. But we are faced with social problems that have now become entrenched in Sweden, social problems that suck the marrow and the faith of the future out of people. This applies not least to school. We need to restore order in the classroom, in the hallway and in the schoolyards. We meet with reports of social chaos and violence, such as the latest events in Eslöv, Malmö, Nässjö and Hallsberg. The liberals have presented an order and safety lift to the school with ten concrete measures for a classroom for learning, where both students and teachers should be able to feel safe. The teachers' work situation and the pupils' situation require that Sweden's teachers receive support with other things than teaching. More career paths, stronger wage developments and greater access to further education are needed. Let the state take over responsibility immediately for the 28 schools that were included in the Swedish School Inspectorate's report on the activities that have the greatest challenge in delivering knowledge to our young people! But we're never going to back off the knowledge requirements. Under-education and the fact that tens of thousands of children do not receive the knowledge they deserve every year is a major problem. When 15 per cent fail to pass comprehensive school, the solution is not to lower the requirements for entering upper secondary school, but to strengthen knowledge efforts in comprehensive school. With 20 years of extensive immigration and inadequate integration policies, it has v u x in the future alienation, unfortunately mass unemployment and parallel societies in Sweden. It is in these social facts that the criminal gangs derive their actual physical nourishment. It is in the mental ice age that young people become easily captured prey for gross criminals, all in a spiral of death against chaos and executions on our streets. It is in these environments that the decent and hardworking people are most at risk of being hit by gangs' gunshots. We have presented from the Liberals an integration package that we call the suburban lift, with lots of investments. It is about education, vocational training, how to move from grants to jobs and how to ensure that jobs are put at the centre of our work with early language interventions, not least for children. That is how we succeed in integration. I'd say there were probably more people than me who were chasing for the spirit the other day. Last week, in the middle of the light day, we in Lund saw seemingly physically healthy men fighting in riots between clans. There are many questions that arise, which are about most of what we are debating here: why were these people not at work this Monday? What were they doing there? Mr President, I would like to We need minerals and Swedish cement factories to build new railways, manufacture batteries and speed up electrification. Sweden will ambitiously, in two decades, definitively replace oil and fossil gas with nuclear power, wind and sun. The need for electricity is growing in Sweden, all year round and in all places. Unfortunately, the government lacks a reality-based map for how this is to be done. After seven years we see a strongly weakened electrical system south of Dalälven. Thanks to European cooperation, electricity does not end in Sweden, but it is becoming increasingly incredibly expensive there and when it is needed. Mr President, I would like to My hopes for this government are limited. Next year, Sweden needs a new liberal bourgeois government – a liberal bourgeois government that is determined to tackle the problems that basically make Sweden a poorer country. We must guarantee future prosperity, people's freedom and our physical survival. Mr President, I would like to Today, 100 years after she entered Parliament's Chamber, Kerstin Hesselgren had not been overly impressed by the way we face today's social problems. That is why a new start is needed for Sweden.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-90	Mr President, I would like to In the summer of 2018, approximately 600 Swedes are estimated to have died as a result of the extreme heat wave. Since then, extreme waves have continued, and around the world we see more and more dramatic examples of forest fires, floods and droughts resulting in enormous human suffering. The climate crisis is happening now. Therefore, each party's climate policy must be measured against whether it will bring Sweden up to its commitments in the Paris Agreement – now. Climate policy is a choice. We can choose to invest in trains and public transport throughout the country and in building houses in wood, offshore wind power and more charging poles. We can choose to put a definitive stop to the extraction of fossil fuels. We can choose to sharpen our climate targets to aim together for zero emissions in 14 years' time. Or, of course, you can cut back on railway maintenance, lower petrol taxes and maintain diesel subsidies, as the self-proclaimed so-called Green Right does. It's a funny name, by the way, just when you thought that the People's Party's name change was some kind of record. No, it is frighteningly clear here today that the blue - brown bloc is still hoping that someone else will do something, somewhere else and some other time. That, my friends, cannot be called climate policy. Mr President, I would like to Climate change is no longer before us. The climate crisis is happening now. Therefore, we increase support for municipalities' adaptation to climate change from SEK 25 million to SEK 500 million. It is very much money, but it is nothing compared to what we will have to pay in the future if we fail to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Mr President, I would like to In the summer of this year, 17 people were shot dead. Organised crime keeps entire areas in fear and restricts life and everyday life. The government has raised the penalty for over 50 crimes. More measures are under way. These include secret coercive measures for preventive purposes. And just so it should be very, very clear: There is no penalty that I am not prepared to consider if it can stop the gangs and violence. Gangs shooting in the streets are supposed to be in jail. But when I listen to the blue-brown parties today, I cannot help but ask myself: How many young men will be shot to death in the summer of 2036 if we do not invest in prevention today? Because right now, this year, boys are born in our suburbs who will then be in ninth grade. By 2036 they will turn 15, and they deserve to have their whole life ahead of them. The police, social services and civil society in areas where gangs are ravaging have for years warned of the consequences of children being left in the lurch. If we do not take responsibility for equality and belief in the future for all children, far too many of them will grow up in child poverty and go to schools with insufficient resources and not pass their education. We are sending SEK 2 1⁄2 billion to the judiciary, because here and now we need strong efforts from the police and prosecutors, better tools and more resources. It's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to what we're going to have to pay if another generation gets lost and falls victim to the gangs. Mr President, I would like to Every three weeks, a woman is killed by a man she has or has had a relationship with. Nearly one in ten children grew up with domestic violence, and nearly one in six students in grade 9 stated in 2017 that they live under some form of honor-related violence and oppression. These figures are the tip of an iceberg – of ill-treatment, mental terror, economic violence and persecution. It is an iceberg of sex purchases, of documentation of brutal abuse of children sold and purchased, of harassment in workplaces that metoo autumn made visible and of hate and threats online. In June, the Government presented a comprehensive package of measures on 40 points against men's violence against women. And yesterday I was able to tell you that for the first time, we are now finally giving permanent funding to work on long-term and systematic work against violence. These are the means that will go to law enforcement and protection, but also to prevention and prevention. It is a lot of money, but it is nothing compared to the price a child pays that grows up with a violent parent and nothing at the ultimate price that women who are murdered pay. Mr President, I would like to This is where we decide what life and money will cost in the future. This is where we can make a difference when we meet both the urgent needs and keep an eye on the future.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-101	Mr President, I would like to The construction of Swedish society is not vaccinated against the political developments that we see in many other countries. We are not immune to the political ideas that want to rate people's value by gender, skin color, religion or class. In a year's time it will be elections, and that's when the voters will decide which society we want, if we want to continue to strengthen what so many people love about Sweden – welfare, trust, security – or if we want to have a political development where we risk losing out on much of what we love about our country. The profound changes that we see in several countries did not occur overnight. This has been done in stages; it can also happen in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Although there are almost two months left until I resign, I would still like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who makes democracy possible in everyday life and in crises that we have had to deal with together. I am thinking not least of the terrible terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. I am also thinking of the pandemic that we have dealt with together. To my fellow party leaders, to all Members of Parliament, to the College of Speakers: Thank you for all the debates and for your work for Swedish democracy! To all of you who work here in the Riksdag, the officials, the security staff, the cleaners, janitors, chefs and serving staff: Thank you for your important work for Swedish democracy! As I said, it is still a long way to go until I resign, so I look forward to the continuation of the line shifts. I am also looking forward to a Question Time here next month, which I know about how it will go. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-107	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words to Stefan Löfven in his last parliamentary debate as party leader and prime minister. First of all, let me just underline what everyone in here already knows: You have made a remarkable career in Swedish society. Uniform testimony also says that you have never done it for your own sake, but always because the duty has called. About party politician Stefan Löfven you can think differently. All of us party leaders are quite used to rice and rose. It is included in the service description as well. Instead, I would like to express the importance of the low-key Prime Minister in talks by himself in Rosenbad or in Sagerska. In particular, I greatly appreciated the fact that when I was newly elected, you invited me to a discussion on difficult issues, sometimes with agendas, sometimes without agendas. Sometimes we quickly reached unity. Sometimes we never made it. It must also be possible for politics to function – to try to understand without the audience the motivations of the other, even if one cannot always share the conclusion and even sometimes, terrible thought, see the strength of the arguments of the other side and the weakness of one's own. The rest of you must not misunderstand me: this did not happen very often. But it happened enough times to give me a picture of the person and not just of the role. That, Stefan, I greatly appreciated, and for that I want to thank you. And I can guarantee your own successor that I will act exactly the same. Politically, we have most differences but musically more in common. In a TV debate in 2018, we had to guess each other's favorite music, and you knew my devotion to the Eskilstuna band Kent. With a little clue I realized that we both like Ulf Lundell too. Now that you suddenly have an infinite amount of time left, I would like to contribute with a musical experience. It is Swedish and international, it is historical and contemporary and it unites us Swedes in generation after generation. When the rest of us go to Almedalen in July next year and enjoy another intense election movement I thought you and Ulla will go to London and see and hear Abbas's new album and new concert ABBA Voyage. Here are the tickets. I think you're both gonna like it. Thank you, Stefan.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-115	Mr President, I would like to It really warmed up, and I think Ulla is watching and is as happy as I am. We are really looking forward to that! I would like to acknowledge the words which Ulf Kristersson has just mentioned about our talks. I have also appreciated them very much. I appreciate your intellect and curiosity, and as you said, we sometimes try to understand each other for real. What is the essence of what we want to achieve? It feels important not least in foreign policy issues and what concerns Sweden's surrounding world and security. The fact that we disagree on many issues is, I think, self-evident. It may have emerged over the years, and that is, of course, because we have different ideologies that guide us. It's nothing weird. But sometimes we try to step back and see what is really at the heart of the arguments. I also very much appreciate the straightforward style of debate. We have tried each other's best arguments here, and I know that Ulf Kristersson is driven by genuine commitment. For that you deserve respect, and I appreciate you as a political opponent. We have had many tough debates and duels and have someone else left. I am thinking of Agenda in October, so we will meet again. I very much appreciate your words, and I appreciate not least this beautiful gift! Thank you!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-120	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! I had to do a little math here. The Social Democrats change party leaders quite often, more often than we do anyway, and Stefan Löfven is the fourth that I have to deal with during my party leadership time. Social Democratic party leaders come and go, but some things persist, for a while, I hope. Mr President, I would like to We will certainly have room to discuss the things that Stefan Löfven provoked around in the speaker's chair in my next line-up, so I will let it go for so long and try to be a little nice instead. In connection with the last election, many of us were able to say that Stefan Löfven likes There is not much that unites me and Stefan Löfven politically, but interest in sausages is one thing that unites us. Food unites people. Sausages unite people. At least Jan Scherman thinks so, who has written the book The Swedish Sausage. Here's a signed copy of it. But you can't just read about sausages; you should also eat a sausage sometimes, and to this book comes a special sausage. It's called Die Harder 6.0. I'm not the one who made up the name, and it shouldn't in any way be seen as a threat, covert or not. Nor should it be seen as a general wish for an accident in the future. It is a culinary uniqueum, which I think Stefan Löfven is happy to taste the evening coffee with Ulla. However, there is a warning note here, because it is very spicy. It's a little too strong for me, but given all the spicy formulations that Stefan Löfven has come to present over the years, I think he can handle this sausage better than I can. I would also like to thank Stefan Löfven for all the debates and everything that we have had in common during these years. To almost quote Pippi Långstrump : It was nice and fun that you came, but it was more fun when you left.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-127	Mr President, I would like to If this sausage is too strong for Åkesson, I'm gonna eat it.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-128	It's no secret that Jimmie Åkesson and I like a lot and that we have different views on people. We're political opponents. That's it. I think it was in one of my first debates on Agenda that I expressed that I have completely different opinions from Jimmie Åkesson but that I respect you as a human being. I always will. I also think it was strong made by Jimmie Åkesson during the time when he himself had it tough as a party chairman. Being a party chairman is tough a lot. It's stress, homesickness and constant care. It's hard. Jimmie Åkesson had to say no for a while and was open with it and that he had to rest. A few weeks ago I met two young women who told me about their mental illness. They said, not least, that it means a great deal that adults talk about this – that we do not stigmatise this – so that young people understand that this can be the case. There I think you did a community service, Jimmie Åkesson, that you told me so openly that you had these problems. It's important. It is also important to be able to tell the difference between the thing and the person. And in spite of the hard times, we have been able to talk behind the scenes and behind the scenes in order to have a decent normal relationship. I appreciate it. I wish you all the best, too. Now I look forward to testing the sausage.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-134	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Stefan Löfven and I have felt different on many issues over the years. We have tried to exchange a certain energy policy report. Stefan Löfven has put words like bickering on the map. We have had many ideological debates and many negotiations during these years. But we have also managed to cooperate for Sweden and to keep xenophobic forces out of influence. Stefan Löfven has been a cooperative force and a party leader who has stood for his word. What has been agreed face - to - face has also been the case. These are qualities that I respect and that I hope we will see more of in Swedish politics. But for the Prime Minister a new life is now waiting outside politics, a life that I hope will include a little more time for relaxation. Perhaps it will also give some new habits in the kitchen. I know one of the Prime Minister's life hacks is half-baked pick-up pizzas. So he bakes them ready at home in the oven to get them perfect. The Prime Minister may now have a little more time to bake his own pizzas, and the home oven may be updated to make sure that that takeaway pizza can keep the stave. Regardless of this, I and the Center Party want to give the Prime Minister a little help with their own pizza steel. It is durable, it is made in Sweden and it is shaped and developed in Norrland – a bit like the Prime Minister himself. We hope that this will come in handy in the future. I would like to extend a great and warm thanks to you, Stefan Löfven, for these years – for debates, for talks, for negotiations and for the consideration that you also show as a fellow human being and as a party leader colleague. I want to wish you, Stefan Löfven, all the best with what you're going to do in the future. That includes pizza steel.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-138	Mr President, I would like to That was pretty good. This one's pretty heavy, you know. It's going to be useful, I can tell you. Thank you very much for the gift, and thank you for the words too! I can also sign. It is well known that it was a bit tough and harsh at the beginning when a report was to be submitted. And I have so many times afterward changed my mind: Why did I not accept that report?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-140	I had a good argument on the front page. I had read that report. It'll have to be in another life. Thank you so much for all the calls! We've been able to get to know each other over the years. Of course, we still have some political differences of opinion. We too have different ideologies and are driven to some extent by different values but also by the same values. I very much appreciate the fact that the Center Party and Annie Lööf are so incredibly clear in the most important value to me of people's equal value and equality. There is no more fundamental value for me. The fact that the Center Party and Annie Lööf have stood up for it, and stand up for it, is very much appreciated. We have also had quite a few conversations, even in private. I've appreciated that very much. And I've been able to trust Annie Lööf 100%. What you have said – the President will forgive me for taking some liberties and saying you – you have also stood up for. It's been very trusting. Thank you for your cooperation! I have, as I said, a few months to go, and I think we'll have a few more calls. And thanks for the pizza steel!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-144	Mr President, I would like to It was short, but it was eventful, Stefan. That's why maybe it felt longer than it was. I take note of what you said about your childhood with your foster family when you announced your departure in your summer speech, and which I thought was very nice. You said, in the registry of the Child Welfare Board, my name was 570721 G, as in boy. But with Iris and Ture Melander, I became Stefan. And you're standing here today. It's a magical life journey, and it says something about Sweden.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-147	It went very well for you, and you worked at Hägglunds for years. Now the ministers are sitting behind, so take this with a pinch of salt. I looked at the government members' CV, and I'm sure I missed someone, but it feels like it's just you, Stefan, who's had a real job. I have great respect for that. Perhaps this is what is missing in this House – workers. Then you are a very good example. I remember what it was like at first, and how it sounded from moderate quarters. The Moderates have mocked this a lot. Some Member of Parliament said: A welder, how statesmanly is it? I do not think that this kind of statement impresses voters. Then I thought it was very funny when you answered Ulf Kristersson to it. That's why I looked into what you said. You said, "Now I'm not an economist." I'm a simple welder, but I can read. You left behind a deficit. Social democracy has kept public finances in order. I think that was a really good answer, and I liked that very much. Now it looks like you're being followed by an economist, and I won't interfere with that much. Maybe it's a bit of a shame, though. I would like to welcome you to my home district of Gothenburg. It is not just Gothenburg that turns 400 years old. Many other cities in Sweden also do so. Now I do not remember if it is the city of Gothenburg that has produced a book, but there is a very good book about Gothenburg that I will deliver to you. I hope you will visit Gothenburg sometime in the future. The book contains both pictures of and text about how hard the knegarna worked to build Sweden's front page. My message is in the end: Stefan, don't forget where you're from!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-155	Mr President, I would like to I guess fighting is a good name for Nooshi Dadgostar. It became obvious not least this summer, and I'm not going to thank you for that! However, I thank you very much for the debates we have had – we have had time to do some – and for talking about everything from the economy, which we sometimes have to talk about, to the conditions of employees. There is a burning commitment to equality at Nooshi Dadgostar, as well as at home. As I said, it became clear. I liked to have exchanges on these issues, not least equality and employees' conditions, which we quite naturally come back to our background. I'd love to go to Gothenburg. I've been there many, many times. I appreciate, not least, that the industry is still there; it has not disappeared, but it is still there. When you go there and see SKF, Volvo and all the fine industries it feels good. Sometimes, however, there is a problem that Gothenburgers themselves have expressed, so I don't want to put it...
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-160	I want to hear that! ) Yes, this is the weather! Once I visited Gothenburg in August, as President of IF Metall, and was met by the first Ombudsman Lennart Alverå. I said, hey, how you doing? He replied: Yes, that's good. I asked: Have you had good weather and a good vacation? He replied: Yes, unusually well, it has only rained twice — the first time for two weeks, and then there was a pause before it rained for another week. This is not true; I have been to Gothenburg and seen the sun there too. I've been there to see Bruce Springsteen at a sunny Ullevi, which was an amazing experience. I'd love to go to Gothenburg.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-163	Mr President, I would like to There is a risk that I, too, will see the Prime Minister today. And, dear Social Democrats, you can lower your shoulders: today there will be no rice, but today there will only be rose – I promise. I will continue in part where Nooshi Dadgostar began. I, too, would like to thank Stefan Löfven for his time as Prime Minister. Arne Geijer is said to have said that the LO Presidency is the finest job a worker boy can get. I would say that Stefan Löfven has finally paid off this claim: in Sweden, the finest job a worker boy can get is to become Prime Minister and lead our country. The class trip that Stefan Löfven has made is Social Democracy at its best. We have different opinions about many things, but here it is easy to find each other. The goal must be for all people to realise their inherent potential. In fact, it should be a source of national pride that who becomes Prime Minister in Sweden is determined not by what parents you have but by what confidence you gain. I would like to say that few things have made me as uncomfortable as the bush propaganda that wanted to make the Prime Minister's previous work a nickname. On the contrary, I believe that we have all been proud to have a Prime Minister who knows very clearly how to create growth and exports. I am also pleased to say that, although I have often been claimed to be Stefan Lövven's greatest critic, I have never had reason to doubt his intentions. There are, in fact, few opposition politicians who have so often had so many disagreements with the current government and, at the same time, never had reason to doubt the Prime Minister's good intentions. Even in a European context, this is no longer self-evident or self-evident, and I would therefore like to emphasise it. I know there are some citizens who may think that life as a government leader is quite a lot of life on a stick– you have staff, live in the Sagerska house, ride a government car and go on gala dinner days. But I dare to believe that Stefan Löfven with a light heart and a big smile leaves all that for more time to the true joy that exists in the close fellowship with his wife and family. It seems to be a bit of a theme on the gifts here, and I actually have a present in the form of a dinner for two at the Hillenberg restaurant here in Stockholm. We were trying to find a restaurant that serves pork pancakes, because I know the Prime Minister appreciates that, but on that front there is clearly a need for more restaurant entrepreneurs. At least Hillenberg has, in my opinion, the best meatballs in town. Perhaps I should also emphasise that this dinner for two is not meant for you and me.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-173	No, I'm thinking that one of my presents might actually be that you can get rid of me. Again, a big thank you!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-175	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ebba Busch very much for the gift and fine words! There is no doubt here either that we have very different political views in large parts, but in private we probably have a little more similar interests. I am thinking of football, which I know Ebba Busch is interested in – although unfortunately she has chosen the wrong team. On the other hand, her team plays in a higher series than the team I'm on, so maybe it's something more right. However, I think it is good to have that distance – to be able to be fully involved in politics, of course, but also to have something private on the side that engages. And a good football game probably beats most of it in the road, at least for me! I'll mention two more things. One is that I think you were the first of the party leaders to hear from you after the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, Ebba Busch. Several fellow party leaders got in touch, and of course we shared ongoing information about what had happened, but there was a text message there – I hope it doesn't matter that I reveal it – which was very strengthening and supportive at the difficult moment. I thank you for that. The second thing I will mention is that Ebba Busch has been very clear on LGBTQ issues and stood up for values and for people who need that support. She has said: If you are not with me and the party on those issues you have nothing to do with the Christian Democrats. It is a very clear position that is appreciated by me – but above all by many people who need that support. A big thank you for that, then! I appreciate that clarity. I also appreciate the clarity of matters relating to care for the elderly, and we have also discussed health issues. Although we have very different opinions, I have noticed that – if you, once again, take a step back and think about what we really want to achieve – there are things to collect in the future. However, it must be developed by someone else in this role!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-180	Mr President, I would like to I thought we were gonna play the package game, so I brought a bunch. It is a major achievement that is coming to an end here in Parliament and in the government. From the Liberals', mine and Nyamko Sabunis's side, I would like to thank Stefan Löfven for the enormous effort he has made in Swedish society and for the nation of Sweden. There are many who sit in the gallery and are experts, but few who dare and are able to take on – and then get – the confidence to lead Sweden. It's a great deed you've done, Stefan Löfven! Now maybe you can come back a little later; you can go in and out in politics, and people usually talk about it being very important. Maybe you'll come back like an Abba Avatar here, inspired by the London concert, what do I know? But first there'll be some rest. When we celebrate 100 years of democracy in Sweden, it feels like we want to hand over some writings and books. I have one from Liberal Women in 100 years of work for voting rights. That's where we stood side by side. The Social Democrats and the Liberals are, of course, side by side on many other issues, but there is a historical link with voting rights. There were others who were opposed, but we were in favour. I also have a book about a Swedish top diplomat who appeared together with Branting when the League of Nations was to be formed. After all, women paved the way here and in many other areas, but this also happened in the state administration. This is a very interesting book about Anna Bugge Wicksell. You get these first – you have to start reading them! I also want you and Ulla to have some good food. You seem to have gotten a lot, but this is more at home. This book is about how to make c rème brûlée. Until there's a burner, which I'm guessing you can handle without hurting yourself. In view of the preferential tax rules here in Sweden, even if in the Social Democrats you abolished the gift tax, I could not afford to buy gas cartridges. After all, gas prices in Europe have been as high as electricity prices, so you're going to have to rattle them up yourself!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-188	Mr President, I would like to It's a bit typical of Johan Pehrson. First, I want to reassure the congregation: I will not come back; it is good now. I'm definitely not coming back as Abba, because I don't want to ruin the amazing gang. There is no doubt that you should invite Johan Pehrson if you want to have frivolous debates. It's not always easy to know what's coming. However, there is always a bottom to something that Johan Pehrson believes in, stands for and wants to have said, and that is important. One can put it that he can do this in a very tricky and unpredictable way. I don't know if you've possibly been spying a little on our privacy, Johan Pehrson.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-193	Absolutely not. I'm just looking at store windows. ) The thing is that crème brûlée is Ulla's favorite dessert, so I can say that you will be very popular at home. It is even of the kind that when we sit outside and eat and look at the menu Ulla always checks if there is c rème brûlée, so she knows how to put up the whole dinner. Here you have got it right; that thing is done! Thank you for everything, Johan Pehrson, here and in other contexts. I also send a warm greeting to Nyamko Sabuni. I appreciate the cooperation with her and the conversations we've had. After all, things did not go as I had hoped with the January agreement, but I appreciate the discussions and cooperation. As I said, thank you, Johan, and a warm thank you to Nyamko Sabuni!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-196	Mr President, I would like to It is a relatively short time that I have had the pleasure of working with Stefan Löfven in the red-green government. However, it has been seven quite tumultuous months, as it were. It's been a government crisis. We've been deposed. We're back in business. Through all of this, you, Stefan Löfven, have shown very clearly what your latest addition to the CV is. You have been Prime Minister and a very clear leader, with strong and clear leadership. This has also characterised all the seven years we have worked together, through acts of terrorism, through an increasing climate crisis and, perhaps not least, through the pandemic that this country has been through and still has not seen the end of. Our parties have achieved a great deal together. We've had tough negotiations – we're two different parties in a collaboration – but we've achieved a lot. We are also well on our way to becoming the first fossil-free welfare country, as promised in 2014. We've had big heads of government in wartime. We have had great Heads of Government in peacetime. I'm sure you'll go down in history as a great head of government in crisis time, and I want to thank you for that. Hopefully you'll have a lot of time to do something else. Then it's the food theme thing here. I have some views on the freedom of choice in Stockholm and the availability of skewer cake; it has turned out to be very bad. Therefore we thought that instead you can come by train to Malmö and when you are there also take the opportunity to hike a little. However, the train card is an interrail card. You can travel by train to Britain. You can watch football in the UK if you want to. But it can also be that, if Tottenham manages to get into the Champions League, it is enough to go to Malmö and watch when they meet Sweden's best team, MFF. I would like to thank you very much. It waits spette cake in Malmö as soon as you pass. There are fantastic natures to walk in. I wish you and Ulla a really nice time to come.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-203	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate very much going to Skåne, so I would love to. In fact, such a trip was planned in September. Now we have to shoot at it for a while, but I would love to go to Skåne and eat a skewer cake. One must say that it sounds like there is a small deficiency here – the restaurant industry in Stockholm has to think about. There is no pork pancakes or skewer in the capital; we need to think about that a little bit. Thank you, Märta Stenevi and the Green Party for their excellent cooperation. Like I said, there's still a little bit left. As early as tomorrow, we'll meet at a government meeting, so there's still some left. However, I am very proud of what we have achieved. Are we done? No, far from it. There's a lot more to do. However, much has been achieved in perhaps not entirely unproblematic parliamentary conditions. I would also like to thank Märta Stenevi in particular for her commitment to gender equality issues. There is clarity there, and we really need to stand up for it. We are two different genders, but it must be that women and men have the same opportunities – equal opportunities – in society at large, at home and elsewhere, for example at work. That must be the case – otherwise we do not take advantage of everyone's capacity. There you are, Märta Stenevi, clear and a very nice role model. Thank you for this!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-208	Mr President, I would like to Back to everyday life. Our country has a unique opportunity to take the lead in the global climate transition. Few countries have as good energy and industrial conditions as we do. The business community is becoming Sweden's new environmental movement. I think this government is wasting that hope for the future. Year after year Sweden misses its climate targets significantly. The government wants fossil-free electricity but shuts down nuclear power. They want to change the industry but do not want to simplify the licensing process. You want electric cars, but you don't want to invest in charging infrastructure. You want batteries, but you don't want to break minerals or open mines. The government wants to build new wooden houses but does not want to use the forest. There is no strategy in the government's climate and environmental policy. Now the government – or, if we are to be completely honest, the Green Party – has set its sights on Swedish forestry. There's their next attack. But the forest is an invaluable resource, both to bind carbon dioxide and to create sustainable products. In addition, over 100 000 Swedes work in the forest industry. It is a little irony of fate that the Green Party and the EU have now become the two biggest threats to Swedish forestry. The proposal for the compulsory management of 525 000 hectares of forest, as large as the whole of Västmanland, has not been withdrawn. On the contrary, two days ago Per Bolund presented a budget line indicating that they are moving forward with the largest forced forest and land management in modern times. But I believe that there is a large majority against that policy. In a moment, Mr President, can we have an answer to the question: Is the Green Party committed to the threat of having to manage even more forests?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-214	Mr President, I would like to At about the same time as the breakthrough of democracy in our country took a revolutionary thought form. It was that society had to shoulder responsibility for the people most vulnerable, and so the first steps towards the welfare society were taken. It was the society that gave a foster child like myself equal opportunities in school as the doctor's son, which gave me the opportunity to be seen for my potential and get the same care and care. I am a social democrat because I know that freedom for all requires a strong society that takes responsibility for everyone. Nevertheless, I believe that in recent decades the welfare society has risked dismantling and threatening equality in many respects. Citizens become customers, profit interests take precedence over the interests of society, and we must do everything we can to break it. My question to Ulf Kristersson is: Do the Moderates see the same problem?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-218	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that the state took over more of the responsibility for the welfare of old church communities, which then became a municipal responsibility, and then the state came in. I have spent many years in Swedish welfare policy and have the greatest respect for everything from Möller, Myrdal and Bagge to the breadth of Swedish social policy history. They built this one up. Then I am convinced that at one time we agreed more that we must first create all the resources that welfare needs in order to distribute them to people who need them. I am convinced that the work line is a fundamental prerequisite for a generous welfare policy. I am convinced that a society in which the vast majority of people work and support themselves is also a society that can afford and help those who cannot work. If you start to pummel this, question the work line and root out what has created prosperity, I fear you will destroy the very kitt of welfare policy.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-221	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that work is a prerequisite for well-being. That is a Social Democratic very clear position. But here it is another ideological issue that is important, and it is precisely that the opportunity of all individuals demands a strong society. In recent times, however, I have felt that in the bourgeoisie voices are being raised because, for example, the market experiment has gone too far. Perhaps there were good intentions, that it would improve welfare. However, we have seen that this has not really been the case, but rather the opposite is true in many cases, precisely because citizens are no longer seen as citizens without customers and that profit interests must take precedence over the interests of society. That's what I'm after. We must be able to share the view that we must do something about this, otherwise the welfare will not be for everyone.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-224	Mr President, I would like to Since on this day we are not questioning each other's motives, but just our methods, I would like to say that I believe that you sometimes miss the risks that exist when you do not follow up on your own reforms. The early retirement scheme is fantastic; we must have it. Half a million early retirements we couldn't have. We had the most sick people in the world. We were forced to reform a system that you allowed to run amok. Having public welfare systems is great. Having public monopolies that question whether private entrepreneurs can benefit from welfare is not good. We reformed what you couldn't handle. This is not an acquittal from the obligation to follow every reform at all times. There is not a single reform that can be implemented without error. There are always risks with every change. Therefore, care should always be taken to ensure that all schools, both private and public, deliver the knowledge to which students are entitled and that every retirement home, privately or publicly, delivers the security and care that the elderly need. If the answer is no to the question of whether this happens, change things.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-229	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson was in his previous change of line on the issue of sickness benefit, and Ulf Kristersson himself has been Minister of Social Security, so he is very familiar with Moderate policy in the area of insurance. During his speech, Ulf Kristersson highlighted one of the most important issues for him, and that is to reduce the compensation, reduce and make it more difficult to obtain compensation from health insurance and unemployment insurance, as I understood it. Now the government has presented a number of new proposals to improve health insurance. Sweden has the worst sickness benefit system in the OECD world. I would like to hear from the former Minister of Social Security, who is the architect of our health insurance system, what further changes the Moderates will make to health insurance. How much more should we reduce the level of benefits in the health insurance system?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-233	Mr President, I would like to No, it is not that anyone, as far as I understand, is proposing deteriorations and reductions. We propose systems that are sustainable, where people work, earn money, pay taxes and make welfare systems work, so that those who need them can benefit from them. That is what we propose. When I entered the government more than ten years ago, we worked to do something about a system that had failed. We had half a million early retirements and twice as many sick people as many other countries. We took note of Göran Persson's insight. The half-life target, he said before he left the government. We cannot have a system with so many and so long on sick leave, because it undermines our welfare systems. It was the very broad common insight at the time. I am not 100 percent sure that the Left Party was on the bill either then, but almost everyone else realised this. Then there were reforms in order for people to work and not be gone longer than absolutely necessary. I am proud of these reforms.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-237	Mr President, I would like to I know two people, seriously ill with cancer, who have been in conflict with the Social Insurance Agency. We are told over and over again that severely ill people are being insured in Sweden. On top of this, the Moderates actually propose additional days of withdrawal. The Moderates want to save SEK 10 billion on health insurance. The Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, have, of course, put forward further proposals to reintroduce the backlog, that is to say, the distant parentheses of health insurance, and to make further tough checks on those applying for sickness benefit. We know that Försäkringskassan is setting a new record in rejecting applications for sickness benefit today. An important message that Ulf Kristersson is now giving to the Swedish people is that the Moderates want to save 10 billion, that is to say even worse health insurance. How else can I understand the draft budgets presented by Ulf Kristersson in this House?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-240	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party should understand it this way: Time limits are necessary in an insurance policy aimed at people getting back to work. Karen days are also necessary in an insurance policy – all countries with advanced social security policies know that. The time limit has two basic aims: either you come back to work or you are judged permanently, as it is said, unable to work. Then you should get what most people call early retirement. That's how it works. I have spent so many times with employees at Försäkringskassan or in social services and have the deepest respect for their difficult work. They have a set of rules to follow. All countries have regulations, and they should be interpreted. Sometimes they conflict with an individual insured person or an individual who is socially vulnerable. Then we have courts to do justice. An appeal will be lodged, and the court will examine whether what has happened is right or wrong. If the policy is not satisfied, the policy will have to change this. But the politicians who say that we should not have any rules, controls and deadlines will jeopardise Swedish welfare and economics.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-244	Mr President, I would like to It was with great interest that I began to read the Moderates' debate article on their new climate policy. Unfortunately, it did not turn out to be a kiosk roller. It was more like when I studied literature and read Beckett's classic play about Godot. You read and read and read, but no climate policy ever shows up. Just get me wrong, a global carbon tax would be great. In fact, there is about exactly no one who does not want a global carbon tax. It's just that while we wait for it, emissions increase. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Ulf Kristersson what the Moderates' timetable is for us to achieve our commitments under the Paris Agreement. What measures do the Moderates want to see now to reduce Sweden's emissions by perhaps 10 – 15 percent per year, which is what is required because we have been dragging our feet for so long? Is there anything the Moderates want to do now instead of then?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-247	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes I get the impression that when the Green Party sets its goals and then quite clearly fails to reach them, that is, misses its own climate targets by one third, the Green Party's response is not to revise the policy but to tighten the targets. It's not working. Reality does not improve because you have high goals if you repeatedly fail to live up to them. Our point is the opposite. It's urgent and long-term. Do the right thing at the right time. It is local, national, European and international. If nuclear power had not been shut down, as you so desperately wanted, we would have had less emissions in Sweden now. It would have made climate benefits internationally. The fact that the United States is now back on track is amazingly good, after quite gloomy years with Trump. If we, with Europe and the United States at the head, force China to enter seriously into global climate action, we will be doing a great job. I do not believe in the climate nationalism that you are engaged in. Let us do the right things in Sweden so that we can inspire other countries to also do the right things. Then Sweden will do the most good.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-252	Mr President, I would like to It is often interesting to listen to what Ulf Kristersson says but even more interesting to listen to what he does not say, i.e. the policy he does not highlight in a climate debate. While forest fires are ravaging the entire planet, from California to Australia, the Moderates want to reduce the tax on petrol while waiting for a global carbon tax. While floods plague Sweden, Europe and the world, Ulf Kristersson is unable to set an end date for fossil fuels in Sweden. The Moderates say they want to push climate policy through the EU, but well there, the Moderates say no to imposing climate tariffs. They often talk about symbolic politics, and this climate play is actually a prime example of symbolic politics. All measures that can reduce emissions here and now are left to someone else some other time, possibly while waiting for Godot. On the basis of the objective of 2045, my question remains: What is the Moderates' timetable for reaching the targets? What was played out in the debate article does not hold.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-256	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit bleak of those who are now responsible for Swedish climate policy for several years and who repeatedly fail with their own goals to point their finger at others who want to do more efficient things. I think it is quite obvious that if Sweden is right with its very small share of the world's emissions, we can do great good by inspiring others. If we can get European agreements that put a minimum price on CO2 emissions and if we can get the USA and China on the track, we are making huge efforts. But we are not doing this by destroying people who currently live in the Swedish countryside and who cannot afford to buy an expensive electric car or even charge it. My counter question might be: why don't you build sensible charging infrastructure so that people who want to drive an electric car can charge their car?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-259	Mr President, I would like to Our moment on earth was Stefan Lövven's theme for the speech he gave at the beginning. He also said that he knows what he spends his time on earth, and unfortunately, as far as the last seven years are concerned, so do we. That's kind of the problem. Stefan Löfven also points out that society is man's work. That's part of it. For Sweden, it is above all the work of one person: the Prime Minister's. It is not the nurse at the nursing home in Molkom who is responsible for what our society looks like. It is not the police in Rosengård who are responsible for what our society looks like. It is not the worn-out scaffolding builder in Bromölla who is responsible for what our society looks like. It is not the hardworking hairdresser in Husby who is responsible for what our society looks like. As Prime Minister, responsibility cannot be placed on all other people. It is, Mr President, Stefan Löfven who is responsible for what our society looks like. It's a fact. Ordinary, honest, hardworking Swedes are not responsible for the society that Stefan Löfven and his Social Democratic government have created during the seven years they have been in power. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, it is so extremely important when Sweden goes to elections in barely a year's time that we get a new direction for Sweden, a direction based on a reasonable perception of reality and common sense. Sweden needs new governance.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-265	Mr President, I would like to Democracy is under threat in many parts of the world, and today fewer people live in a democracy than ten years ago. Swedish democracy is enshrined in the Constitution. It not only defines the state but also protects the values and rights on which democracy rests, including human rights about the equal value of all, respect for diversity and the achievement of equality by all people. Democracy and human rights are each other's reflections. One cannot exist without the other. They cannot do that in a right-wing nationalist ideology that wants to make a difference between people, say us and them and fatten distrust and intolerance, word for word, step by step. Doesn't Jimmie Åkesson see what his political couple horses are doing around our world? Is it really such a development that Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats want?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-270	Mr President, I would like to For almost seven years I have been listening to Stefan Lövven's conspiracy theories about how we are governed by global, dark forces that want to overthrow democracy and make it generally miserable for all people around the world. The vast majority of people understand that it is not the reality that is consistent, but the conspiracy theory. If this is a threat to democracy in our country, it is the erosion of the rule of law that the Socialist Government has paved the way for. If this is a threat to democracy in our country, it is the political violence that left-wing extremists and right-wing extremists engage in in election movements after election movements. Is it something that threatens democracy in our country is the powerful Social Democrats who see any loss of power as a coup d'état? These are real threats to democracy.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-272	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson could have chosen to say something about how he views developments in Hungary and Poland right now in terms of LGBTQ people and about media and courts that are no longer as free, but Jimmie Åkesson chose not to say anything about this. Views of democracy are based on values, and these have traditionally been accepted by all parties in this Parliament. But a party which, in its party program, argues that the people of popular government are defined by biological heritage and therefore people rule is threatened by the existence of several peoples does not share the values laid down in the Swedish constitution. A party that says that political correctness applies to absolutely fundamental principles of human rights, in order to undermine those very values, threatens democracy. That threat is real. It is good if the Swedish Democrats can distance themselves from that.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-274	Mr President, I would like to Of course I can talk about all kinds of countries around the world, but I don't really understand why I should do that. Because Stefan Löfven decides that? Because Stefan Löfven thinks I should talk about it? No, I don't think I need to. Stefan Löfven builds straw men and claims that we are inspired by countries that in different ways go in a wrong direction in a democratic way, but it cannot reasonably be me who should have to talk about this because Stefan Löfven thinks so. If so, Stefan Löfven may do so. I also see the democratic or rather unpleasant developments in some countries. There are a number of countries governed by right-wing parties, and there are a number of countries governed by parties that are on the edge to which Stefan Löfven belongs. That is not something I welcome, on the contrary. I believe in democracy, I believe in the Constitution and I believe in Sweden as it has grown over generations. I have absolutely no intention of changing this fundamentally, quite the contrary.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-277	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has presented a series of proposals to strengthen the protection of our liberal democracy, including strengthening the constitution and, for example, improving protection against discrimination. The Swedish Democrats want to change the constitution in a completely different direction. In a heavy parliamentary motion from last year it is written that the form of government should begin with a story that power should be based on the people of Swedes. We want to restrict the right of minorities to their own culture. They want to make it constitutional that the Pride flag should not be raised on public buildings. These are changes that fully follow the culture view of the Swedish Democrats when it comes to defining who is Swedish, who is part of the people and who is not. It is by restricting minority rights in the Constitution that there is an imminent risk that majority decisions can oppress minorities. Perhaps this is even the very idea behind SD's constitutional changes, which were presented in a parliamentary motion last year. Or can Jimmie Åkesson explain the purpose, why it is necessary to define a Swedish people in the Swedish constitution?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-280	Mr President, I would like to It gets a little parody, almost satirical, I can think when one party goes to elections that one should change the constitution so that another party cannot change the constitution. I find it very difficult to understand how this rhymes with the basic principles of democracy. For example, I find it very difficult to understand the Center Party's ideas about a constitutional court, how this strengthens democracy and how democracy is strengthened by officials examining the decisions of elected representatives in the Swedish Parliament. Annie Lööf and the Center Party bear the same responsibility as Stefan Löfven for the erosion of the rule of law. Our whole liberal democracy is based on the rule of law, the principle of the equality of every citizen before the law. There are examples of centre politicians in our courts who judge on the basis of ethnicity instead of the obvious principle of the rule of law. This is a real threat to democracy, Mr President.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-282	Mr President, I would like to It is an extremely worrying response from Jimmie Åkesson, who does not understand the importance of a strong constitution and of defending human and fundamental rights and freedoms. The proposals that the Center Party has put on the table and been pushing for many years are similar to those of many other bourgeois parties. It is a fundamental foundation for the defence of civil liberties. I can take a quote from the Swedish Democrats' heavy parliamentary movement, which was awakened last year and which deals with minorities: This Charter does not seem very successful either, as such a principle makes it difficult for immigrants in Sweden to assimilate, not to integrate. ..................................................... I ask again: Why is it so important for the Swedish democrats to make constitutional changes based on the Swedes as the Swedes' people and to restrict minority rights and to constitutionally establish that the Pride flag should not be lifted?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-285	Mr President, I would like to To write something in the Constitution about a single flag, I don't think any party here wants to. It seems really weird. But that is not the point here; the point, Mr President, is that Annie Lööf does not understand what society looks like. Annie Lööf opposes the idea that people who come here from all corners of the world should adapt and become part of Swedish society. Instead, based on the neoliberal starting point that Annie Lööf has, you should be able to live just as you want and follow exactly what values, norms and laws you want when you are in Sweden. I don't believe this. I think we already have the results from that social model, with division, segregation, clan structures and parallel societies emerging. We must therefore ensure that people living in Sweden accept and respect basic norms and values that have built our society over generations. That is where I and Annie Lööf, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party, differ, Mr President.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-287	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have said that they want to see Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister for Sweden and give their full support to the Moderate Leader to lead Sweden. We know that his track record is mainly about reducing health insurance very much. He also wants to lower and lower the unemployment fund. It is one of the most important points for the moderate leader of such a government. The Swedish Democrats have also been very active on the issue of health insurance. They want the sick to pay higher taxes themselves. They have voted in favour of this in this House. They have voted in favour of reintroducing the longer time limit in health insurance and have voted several times in favour of the Moderate Budget, which leads to major deteriorations in health insurance. In addition, they want, for example, commercial operators to be able to make money from older people in retirement homes. Is it the case that what Jimmie Åkesson says outwardly is unusually bad about what he is doing in this House, Mr President?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-290	Mr President, I would like to The last question, whether that is so or not, may others answer. I do not, of course, feel that this is the case, quite the contrary. If there is any party in this House that has pushed for a dignified and reasonable existence for the vulnerable in our society, it is the Swedish Democrats. I would like to correct Nooshi Dadgostar on a couple of points. One is that we have not expressed any support for any single Prime Minister at all. The second is that we have not said that we are giving our full or perfect support to any single prime minister candidate, but rather the opposite. Like the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats have their political priorities. It is clear that the more people who vote for a party like the Swedish Democrats, the more of that policy it is also reasonable for us to get. If you vote for the Swedish Democrats you get a party that fights for a generous conversion insurance, unemployment insurance, a party that fights for better pensions and a party that fights for a health insurance that is reasonably balanced in relation to what society looks like.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-293	Mr President, I would like to It doesn't make any sense. I understand that Jimmie Åkesson and I have different experiences, but what is happening in this House is that the Swedish Democrats have voted to impair health insurance. They have voted in favour of the bourgeois budgets, in favour of the Moderate Budget. Jimmie Åkesson even defends the Pensions Group and did not vote to abolish the Pensions Group when it came up in the Social Security Committee. Then the Swedish Democrats did not vote for it, but only the Left Party did. This is a party that is in the lead band of the Moderates and is voting over and over again on the proposals that bring about a deterioration in health insurance. We heard here Ulf Kristersson himself tell us how to further reduce health insurance, and this project will be supported by the Swedish Democrats. We know how it's used to sound. First, you shouldn't be for commercial actors who will make money from seniors living in retirement homes, and then you should be. First you say one thing and then you do something else in this House.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-296	Madam President, I would like The fact that I and Nooshi Dadgostar have different experiences about what reality looks like is no news, and it may not be so strange either, given that we belong to completely different parties with completely different visions for what society should look like in the long term. I am quite grateful for this, not least for the Left Party. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Well-being is extremely crucial to how this society is kept together. I count health insurance, pensions and unemployment insurance, because they are crucial parts of the safety net that we are building together to ensure that people who end up in unemployment, get sick or have worked and worked a whole life to build this society can have a dignified, rich old age when it comes to that. These are the starting points of the Swedish Democrats, and these are the priorities of the Swedish Democrats. The fact that Nooshi Dadgostar reads something else into our politics has to stand for her. That is not the policy I stand for.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-299	Madam President, I would like The last line was a little boring. During this parliamentary term, we have had effective cooperation. It was called the January Agreement and was concluded by four parties and was concluded after a very complicated election result that made it difficult to form a government. Then it was lowered by Nooshi Dadgostar and Jimmie Åkesson. Then you worked together more, and now you're fighting again, you might say. My point is that I am pleased that Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats want to strengthen Swedish pensions. My question is how it's going to happen. I understand that we want to protect the pension group that came into being when we phased out the old pyramid game, ATP, and turned into a more modern earning system. With huge vaccination campaigns even before the corona, people live longer – people have stopped smoking and, to put it bluntly, stopped drinking so hard. So we need a refill. But how is this to happen? What is Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats' plan for this?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the serious question. Now we are having an interesting substantive debate on this – or debate I do not know, but it might be more of an awareness campaign. The crucial thing for me is that older people in our country – those who are pensioners today and those who will be pensioners – have better living conditions. That's what matters to me. In fact, how it happens is less interesting. Perhaps that is because, as we propose in our budgetary motion, we are strengthening the provisions for the pension system. That's one way to do it. There is probably a majority in favour of this measure in the Swedish Parliament, if it were not for the Pensions Group that is blocking this very thing. You can also do so by reducing taxes, and you can do so in other ways. I am open to discussing these different ways of doing it. The crucial thing for me is that if you have worked and worn out a whole life you should also get economic conditions that are reasonable when you get old.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-304	Madam President, I would like That's it! The system that we now have is based on having a basic state pension that is linked to how long you have worked. Then there is an occupational pension that is quite important, and it may also be that we work with it. As far as the Liberals are concerned, we would like to see more people being obliged to pay in to it, because it is clear that it is indecent that people do not receive a pension after working and fighting. You can look at this with individual savings. We had a previous right to deduct in Sweden so that you could save a few SEK for your pension – early on it could be many SEK – but we have replaced that with the ISK account that the government now, as I understand it, unfortunately is a bit eager to do something about. The basic thing is that we can do this either through tax cuts– Liberals are in favour of it and are proud of what we did in the framework of the January agreement because we have been involved in strengthening the situation of pensioners, and we would like to continue with it – or by taking away from the AP funds or increasing the provisioning. These are important things to talk about in the future, because it is not enough just to want to increase pensions, but to show how we want to do that.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-308	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is crucial for us essentially not how this happens. I think the best way to solve it, at least at this point, is for the state to take responsibility. That's what we want to do. We want to shift part of the employer's contribution, the general wage contribution, to strengthen the pension system and not, as the Social Democrats primarily want, to put this on employers and companies by increasing employers' contributions. I think that's a bad solution. I am open to discussing ways forward to strengthen pensions and the economic living conditions of the elderly. This is an extremely important issue, not least as we have an increasing number of older people, as Johan Pehrson rightly pointed out here in the introduction.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-310	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, G left his proposals for more stringent penalties for crimes in criminal networks. This is something that should now be taken further. The government has also raised over 50 penalties. Nevertheless, we hear frustrated voices from police, social services and civil society. I quote the chief police officer Anders Thornberg : a long-term initiative must be carried out in schools, social services and other important parts of society. ..................................................... I understand that it feels good in the stomach for the Swedish Democrats when you run proposals like putting the army in the suburbs. We all want to break the gangs. But even though this kind of macho-signalling symbolism may seem good, it is not enough in reality.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-313	Madam President, I would like I should first like to say that I am pleased that the Green Party seems to be beginning to take these issues seriously. This has not been done historically, but it has been pretended that these problems do not exist. Now suddenly you see them, and that's good. There is also a need for more realism in the government parties. Märta Stenevi points out that the government has raised over 50 penalties, and that sounds great. The problem is that it is not the penalties that are actually being raised, because the minimum penalties are not being increased. On the contrary, you raise the penalties in the second part of the scale, and then it becomes a problem when we have a situation where the vast majority are judged in the very lower part of the scale. It does not matter how many penalties the government raises if this is not applied in reality. That is the minimum penalty we need to work on first. The basic thing must be that dangerous people are kept locked up. Dangerous people should not live freely in society. Dangerous people are going to jail. You can solve that if you see the reality as it actually looks.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-316	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that review of the view on minimum punishment, Jimmie Åkesson! But now that's not what I asked for. I asked what the Swedish Democrats want to do to ensure that children born and raised in Sweden are not drawn into organised crime.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-318	For far too long, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats have been getting away with blaming everything on immigration and hiding behind rhetoric about culture and burdens. But while young people die on our streets and mothers mourn their sons, you have no policy to come up with to actually fight organised crime in the long run, but only symbolism and pompous feathers.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-319	Madam President, I would like Here the Green Party consolidates its position as a left-wing party. One is so blinded by these so-called socio-economic factors that one cannot see that there are also other models of explanation that people become gross criminals in our country. It goes without saying that poverty and general social vulnerability lower the threshold for falling into a criminal gang. I understand that, and I buy it. But that's not the whole explanation. Another part of the explanation is a society that is completely callless, a society that does not demand people. People who come here from other parts of the world and unfortunately make up the largest, not to say the whole, part of the gang criminals have never had to become part of Swedish society. They have not been expected to become part of Swedish society. That's a problem. Another problem is that we do not forcefully suppress the less serious crime that many children and young people choose to commit. That's another way to deal with it. If Märta Stenevi is interested in discussing it, I can discuss her socio-economic explanation.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-322	Madam President, I would like The climate, jobs, security and rural areas are areas where the Center Party will continue to work for change and continue to make every effort to make an impact on our policies and take the whole country forward. But the foundation for building on a greener, stronger and safer Sweden rests on our liberal democracy. It is something that we have taken for too long for granted, but which must be strengthened and defended every day. All over the world we now see the ghost of freedom and oppression sweeping through. We hear the sound of human rights being demolished. And politicians who have come to power through open elections are now using it to restrict press and freedom of expression, politicise courts and take away people's freedom and belief in the future. We see how anti-liberal forces are gaining ground. But we also hear the applause and cheers of their admirers. Strong forces allow themselves to be openly inspired and motivated, whether it is by the Trump movement in the USA or Viktor Orbán's Hungary. Faced with the anti-liberal movement that we see in the world today, we must not be naive. Our Swedish democracy is strong. At the same time, however, we must do more to protect it for the future. We have therefore put forward a number of proposals to protect our liberal democracy. We want to strengthen the protection of free and independent media. We also want to make it more difficult to change the Swedish constitution and constitutionalize the rules for the work of our highest courts, to ensure that, just as today, it is also possible to have legal certainty and unpolitical trials in the future. We also want to strengthen the protection and support of those who choose to engage politically. We will continue to be a force for a strong liberal democracy. It is it that has given us transparency, freedom, knowledge and justice and has created the opportunities that the whole country needs.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-326	Madam President, I would like The Center Party began the new Prime Minister's term by imposing a ban on the Prime Minister; he would not be allowed to talk to his own budget base. That was the Center Party's announcement. My question to Annie Lööf is: is politics not the art of opportunity and compromise? Not everyone can get everything, but everyone can get something. You have to talk, talk and get along, and then everyone can stand for a compromise. I am not particularly interested in hearing that politics differs between the Center Party and the Left Party. I want to hear from Annie Lööf if she can still understand the criticism that has been levelled at the Center Party. It is massive criticism that we should still be able to talk to each other in politics. Could it be that you sometimes have to accept that you can't have everything but that you can still talk to each other and get along?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-330	Madam President, I would like Yesterday Nooshi Dadgostar said this: It is a suicide pact to cooperate with the Center Party. In recent years, Nooshi Dadgostar and the Left Party have made it clear that the policy of the Center Party is what they call both neo-liberal and experimental workshop and that it should be relegated to the waste heap of history. Values and politics but also tone play a role, Nooshi Dadgostar. There's no call ban. There is no ban on negotiations. Stefan Löfven is free to talk to anyone he wants. This summer we have also seen that Nooshi Dadgostar has no objection to working with the Swedish Democrats. She's lost all the principles to depose an S-led government. Nooshi Dadgostar is now struggling hard to knit his own victim jacket. But politics is about good tone, it's about ability to cooperate and it's about settling matters where you're close to each other. That's how politics works. We are prepared to cooperate with the most parties in the Swedish parliament and we are happy to do so.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-335	Madam President, I would like This shows a bullying. Annie Lööf is just getting her seat. Everyone else should sit quietly in the boat. It can't be like that, can it? We are, of course, different political parties. We want different things. At the same time, however, we must be able to sit down and talk to each other. Annie Lööf cannot seriously think that this is how we should rule Sweden, that we should have a prime minister who sits up in a tower and thinks he knows about what the parties down there think and maybe can get through a state budget. Is that how Annie Lööf thinks we should rule Sweden – with a ban on talk, no negotiations and no to different parties? Is it the future of Sweden? Does it look like that in the Center Party's vision? It's not gonna work. It is much easier to agree if you sit down and talk to each other.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-338	Madam President, I would like No, that's not the future of the Center Party. We are the party that has been involved in all the cross-block agreements in recent decades. We are sitting on the key, and have been doing it for many years, to churn out negotiating results and compromises, to ensure that governments are able to take office and to get budgets to go through in Parliament. It is in our DNA to be just responsible and constructive. I would have liked to have continued with the January agreement for another year. There were many liberal bourgeois reforms that we had agreed to continue. But the thing is that Nooshi Dadgostar chose to throw away his principles of not cooperating with a xenophobic populist party overboard and voted in favour of the Swedish Democrats' censure motion in parliament. As a result, an S-led government was deposed, and that is why it is now going to be a messy year. However, we are prepared to remain constructive. We can imagine working together and negotiating with many parties in the Swedish parliament – that is the very basis for compromise and political craftsmanship – with alliance colleagues as well as with the current government. That will be our focus in the coming months.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-341	Madam President, I would like I have a short question. In her first speech today and also in communication earlier this week, Annie Lööf has said that she wants fair beach protection. I wonder what fair beach protection means for Annie Lööf and the Center Party. Is it justice that is about having access to nature regardless of economic conditions? Is this justice based on the restriction of even more of the right of public access to justice, in addition to the large exemptions already granted today? Or is it possibly justice for those who can afford it while justice for those who are excluded is kept away?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-343	Madam President, I would like That's a very good question. Fair beach protection is about differentiated beach protection. It is about creating a freedom reform for all people who live and work in and want to open up nature in rural areas. It is about that it should be as important to be able to rebuild an industrial space in the countryside as it is in the big city. Today, the application to rebuild or build something in the Swedish countryside is rejected. It should be possible to live, operate and run businesses even in rural and rural areas. The environmental party has a centralist perspective on beach protection legislation. We want to implement the Strandskyddsutredningen's proposal. This means greater protection in high-exploited areas in some places, but above all it means a huge reform of freedom if you can build in ditches and smaller lakes. It also enables the attractiveness of the Swedish countryside.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-346	Madam President, I would like I agree that there are certainly situations where it could be easier to build industries, for example on hard soil and old contaminated land. Annie Lööf points out that we have developed such things in Malmö, for example. These are fantastic examples that could be used throughout the country. The same applies to dug ditches and ponds. These are places that could develop much more. What I wonder, however, is who will build and develop this. Who will be able to afford to buy the beach plots when you get the same amount of exemptions in other places that you already have in Stockholm? For example, it has closed 70% of the coastline in Danderyd. Is it a development that becomes more fair when we get it throughout the country? Is it about justice when only the one who can afford to buy a beach plot is also the one who gets access to the coast? What I hear is that it may mean a strengthening of property rights but not an increase in justice.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-348	Madam President, I would like Märta Stenevi needs to go out into the country and see what land and land prices are on in the Swedish sparsely populated and rural areas. In Arvidsjaur, for example, there are three times more lakes than residents. The shoreline in Sweden lasts ten laps around the world. I stand up for and protect the Swedish right of public access. It is very important that you can use nature and experience it. I'm protecting biodiversity. I also guard the free passage, which is included in today's beach protection legislation. These are important parts. But there are so many examples of enormous frustration that Stockholm and the Riksdag do not see the possibility of being able to build and live in rural areas, be able to develop their farm business and have natural tourism companies and bed and breakfasts. We must ensure a fairer and more differentiated beach protection for the whole country.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-351	Madam President, I would like This government has been so busy with itself and its own stickhorses that it does not see what reality actually looks like. The Sweden that I grew up in had strong floors and dense ceilings. You were expected to exert yourself and do your best, but you were also met by a strong society. That's what Sweden should be. Something has broken in the Swedish folk home. Insecure, care queues and housing shortages now characterise everyday life. Social Democrats and Moderates have been arguing over power all these years, but regardless of the color of the government, they have continued to dismantle and worsen. We need a real change. A new government on the left will take a completely different direction, because this is not working. The Swedish model is to be restored. Anxiety, lack of steering speed and the internal positioning that this government has devoted its time are a threat to our common future. We know how to build a strong country. We have done so before when we went from Europe's poorest to one of the richest and most equal countries in the world. This is what a new government has to do. We left-wing parties stand ready to take responsibility for Sweden, a country that deserves better and that has the potential to once again become the world's best and most successful country. It requires a strong government that puts the Swedish people first.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-354	Madam President, I would like The Left Party claims to have increased its political commitment to rural areas. There have been big words, and there has been a new spokesperson. The problem is that politics has not changed. It is still the same old left who thinks they know best about how people should live their lives and see the state as the only benefactor. They want to reduce the ownership of forest owners. They want to continue to make it difficult for people to build and live in rural areas. They want to break free choice and reduce the accessibility of welfare as well as pull away the carpet for village schools and, of course, raise taxes on jobs and businesses. Can Nooshi Dadgostar explain to me how the freedom and development of our Swedish countryside is strengthened by the fact that forest owners are not allowed to control their own forest, that they are not allowed to live and build close to the shore or that companies receive higher taxes? Simply: Why should it be more expensive and more difficult to live in rural areas?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-356	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf is in the usual order completely wrong. Does the Center Party not realize that some municipalities have 6 SEK higher municipal tax than municipalities in the Stockholm region? The withdrawal of the state is the major problem. When Annie Lööf is standing in the Chamber and destroys the unemployment fund, destroys the Employment Service and destroys health insurance, it means that severely ill people have to be taken care of by the municipality, that the unemployed end up in the municipality's finances and that the municipality has to pursue labour market policies. This makes the big differences become huge across the country. The responsibility of the state must be taken back. We can't have such unequal health care in the country. We must have a well-being that is strong throughout the country. Then you cannot stand in Stockholm and in the Swedish parliament and just remove the military tax for the richest people who live in Solna, because then someone else has to increase the municipal tax.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-358	Madam President, I would like That was a good answer, but Nooshi Dadgostar missed that we have reduced the income tax for people living in sparsely populated areas. We have increased general state subsidies to municipalities and regions. I too see the challenge of a high municipal tax in the most sparsely built municipalities; that is what it looks like. For this reason, there is a need for a substantial shift in municipal tax equalisation. I still find it strange that Nooshi Dadgostar did not even try to talk about why they want to reduce ownership of forest owners or why they do not want to improve the possibility of living near the beach. Perhaps it is Nooshi Dadgostar's own history that is behind this, since, for example, in a government investigation, she has proposed that the municipality should be able to seize land by landowners in the country in order to increase housing construction. Why do the Left Party and Nooshi Dadgostar not want to strengthen private ownership or benefit all the small-scale entrepreneurs in the Swedish countryside? Is it because in the Left Party Party movements you write that you want to redistribute ownership or change the structure of ownership in society?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-361	Madam President, I would like You get to the forehead of all this ideological test owl Annie Lööf comes with. Of course it's not like that. There must, of course, be a balance between protecting biodiversity and forestry. It is even so that I think you need to look at protecting the most exploited shoreline while you can look at reliefs for other places. Here we have to talk to each other. But Annie Lööf is best known for not talking to anyone. That's Annie Lööf's biggest problem. In addition, the Center Party in the Swedish Parliament is improving things only for those individuals who receive tax relief for their property values in the big cities. This means that it is the other municipalities that have to pay by raising their municipal tax in order to create well-being in themselves because the state does not help. That's the big problem.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-364	Madam President, I would like I understand it's hard when you don't want to talk to each other in Parliament. That's very strange. I can, however, welcome Nooshi Dadgostar that we from the Liberals are happy to talk to the Left Party for a long and long time. However, we have very different starting points. One thing is that we should have straight pipes and a strong functioning health insurance, which I like. But then it is obvious to the Liberals with a deductible and a strong focus on getting back to work. The rehabilitation should be very clear. Unemployment is a huge scourge for Sweden. It creates alienation and misery, leads to people losing faith in the future and so on. But how does Nooshi Dadgostar think we should get to grips with this, so that more people get to work? Isn't it a pretty good idea to lower taxes on labour?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-367	Madam President, I would like It was nice to hear that Johan wants to talk to us. We'd love to talk to each other. The changes in health insurance have led to a sharp rise in unemployment. The rules of health insurance are very rigid. Many people, such as health professionals who have worked during the pandemic, go to Försäkringskassan and are told that they should quit full-time instead of being able to work part-time in their profession as a nurse, assistant nurse or whatever it may be. That's what the rules look like today. They maximise unemployment. That's the problem. Current health insurance does not allow us to take advantage of people's work capacity in the profession they have, but we assure them and ask them to apply for support in the municipalities, which will have to pay for it instead. We would reduce unemployment if we had better health insurance, so as to ensure that well-educated people can return to their own profession.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-370	Madam President, I would like Liberals have nothing against more straight pipes. People who pay in to health insurance, work and then are sick for some time should receive compensation. But it will be very difficult if this is to last for a very long time, because then it is some other form of support that must click in. I was on the subject of taxes and labor. I see that the Minister for Finance has come to Parliament's Chamber, which I am pleased to see. I was very happy when she expressed the importance of reducing taxes. As a result, more people come to work and more people can buy a cup of coffee in town. I agree with that analysis. The fact that the Social Democrats have arrived at it is gratifying. We need to focus on better matching features. During the term of office, work has been started on reforming the Public Employment Service. The Left Party thinks this is bad and is against it. We have looked at this by being able to have various forms of direct support for companies. We have seen that the extra services have not worked. We have to get people to work. Can't the Left Party think of reduced taxes? It is by going that way that we get better and workable health insurance.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-374	Madam President, I would like I didn't really follow the last of it. We create jobs by investing in the economy. Now we see a beginning green transition in Norrbotten and Västerbotten, for example. If we want to create many jobs, we must invest in electricity grids and new electricity generation. It's as simple as that. You have to create new jobs. That's how they come to be. It must be ensured that these companies can have a good chance of getting their workforce there, for example by building new rental apartments. This requires investment support from the Riksdag. We need to see what types of investment we can make, so that unemployment disappears and we get the economy going. Just sitting on your hands here and pressing 50 crowns in the hand of an individual gives, so to speak, no new jobs. We need to make sure that we invest in the economy in order to create more jobs, and that, of course, also applies to the public sector. Healthcare, school and care also need to employ staff.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-377	Madam President, I would like I would like to talk about the care queues and those patients who are not receiving care. Now about half of the patients who received treatment have waited longer than the statutory 90 days. A majority have not received treatment in time. Yes, it is partly about the pandemic, but not just because the care queues had doubled even before the pandemic during the Red-Green Government. It harms patients, staff and also the Swedish economy. The care organisation that Sweden has is from 1862. So when we go to elections, it will turn 160 years old. I'm afraid it's nothing to celebrate. We Christian Democrats are going to elections to build a new, modern healthcare organisation, as Norway and Denmark have already done. The government parties go to elections to preserve what exists – and so they call me a conservative. Change is required. Change is possible. Sweden does not need to stand still and accept the long winding care queues. The care queues are not a natural law. Other countries have shown the way, while Sweden, once famous for its well-being, is today stomping in the same place. When Norway modernized its health care, the three largest parties in the city were behind the reform. In Sweden, a slightly smaller party, one may say, is alone in making care its main issue. Madam President, I would like If we in Sweden are to receive health care that lives up to our reputation, we need a new government with a heavy Christian Democratic influence. So much is perfectly clear. The care queues are, as I said, not a natural law. But you have to want to grab them and challenge old bureaucratic and political structures. The Swedish people should be able to trust Sweden and trust the care, no matter where in the country they live.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-381	Madam President, I would like I talked in my introduction about how quickly the political conversation has changed in Sweden and become harder. A few years ago there was talk of the adult in the room. In countries such as Germany, I think that Christian democracy has been one. But I no longer think this is the case in our country, and I regret it. This may surprise some, but I believe that there is a real need for a party that raises the Christian values and the churches' perspectives in Swedish politics, which, not least, protects vulnerable people, including migrants, who rests safely in their tradition and who really stand up to radical nationalism and forces emanating from the white power environment. I would like to ask Ebba Busch how she believes that Christian values are now guiding the Christian Democrats, also in cooperation with the Swedish Democrats.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-384	Madam President, I would like Our values and background are our compass when we navigate in a changing political landscape. Christian democracy was formed and came into being as a counterforce against Nazism and Communism. That is our raison d'être. We're showing another view of humanity. It is about the equal value of all people and always standing up for others, for our fellow human beings, for the most vulnerable. I am in no way trying to cover up the history of the Swedish democrats in the near future. Similarly, I do not try to cover up the Communist history of the Left Party, even in the near future. I know where our red lines go. You should look at our actions and not just our words. We have made sure that there has been more funding for health care and care for the elderly when we have talked with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. Call our actions! That's how you feel the fruit of our tree.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-386	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, there is reason to think about what happens when one says that one stands for Christian ethics and humanity but still seeks influence by pitting groups against one another, which is the consequence of this cooperation. In a debate article in Aftonbladet, the grandchild of one of KD's founders saddens that she leaves the party. Today, in fact, the Social Democrats are the largest party among the churchgoers in Sweden. The Gospel of Matthew says, as Ebba Busch has said, that the tree is recognized by the fruit it bears. But why does the leadership of the Christian Democrats in Sweden not see what is so clearly seen in Germany? The xenophobic forces have not changed at all, but are the same. Do you not see the scandals and racism of leading representatives? You see the fruit, Ebba Busch. Don't lean on that tree!
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-388	Madam President, I would like There's a church election this weekend. In view of that and what we are hearing here, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I wish the multiples from the temple. Political parties do not belong in the church. I am very proud of my personal Christian faith. It means a lot to me. Our Christian values guide us as a party. But we do not pursue religious politics, but we rely on these values. Again: I believe that Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats are using the browning as the only weapon they have left to cover up the de facto failure to stand up for the most vulnerable. It will be in the history books how to treat all children who needed assistance and got rid of it. It will say how many of the refugees who remained in the home countries were handled and not helped when others came here and rounded up the right of asylum. There will be a double line of care. It will be written about all the retirement homes that were never built because they were on the wrong side of history in action.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-393	Madam President, I would like I also bring a lot from my Christian upbringing. I believe that the history books will also tell us how the Christian Democrats closed the door to those who were in greatest need when they wanted to cut the aid to those who most needed it and how they let go of the management of our earth for which we are responsible. Now that the Christian Democrats are going to elections to form a government together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, one wonders again what climate policy it will mean. We know that the Christian Democrats want nuclear power and build new nuclear power. We have heard that many times for many years. My question is the same to Ebba Busch as it was to Ulf Kristersson. What's the timetable? How long before you have a global carbon tax in place? How long will it take to complete negotiations in the EU? How long before you have built the new nuclear power that you are looking for? In the meantime, what is the timetable of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats to achieve the commitments we have under the Paris Agreement?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-397	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I would like to say that Märta Stenevi is wrong at the beginning of her introduction. Secondly, I will not make promises that I cannot keep. I'm not prepared to set a date of year for when we go to port. We need to change the policy. It needs to be much more realistic. Christian democracy is based on the idea of stewardship. We are responsible for what we inherited and for what we pass on to our children. I know that we are in part united in it. So we are an environmentally-aggressive party. We choose the measures that are most effective and not those that may provide the most laiks on Instagram or elsewhere. The reason why we are highlighting nuclear power is not because we are against solar or wind energy or ocean or hydropower. We see that we are going to be able to change and make it realistic, because the issue of climate and the environment is so important, at least we can start by not dropping nuclear power prematurely. It is emission-free and delivery-proof and delivers a lot of electricity.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-400	Madam President, I would like Now both Ebba Busch and I know that we have a surplus in electricity generation and that is not where the problem lies. I wonder again when we will quickly be able to meet commitments in the Paris Agreement that we have taken on as a country. Maybe that's the question I should have asked. Is the planned government – the blue-brown bloc – still behind the Paris Agreement? Maybe that's the question I should have started by asking, I realize now a little late. But if I assume that it does and will not take Sweden out of the Paris Agreement, the question is: What is the timetable? If the answer is to rest on new nuclear power, which comes back time and time again, and a global carbon tax that all the countries of the world have signed up to, how do you meet the timetable for us to go to the goal of 2045? It could be 2035, but 2045 is fixed so far. How are you going to meet the timetable? Is this really being taken seriously at all? Do you take your stewardship seriously?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-404	Madam President, I would like I would like to have a factual debate on this, but I cannot let it go by. As a Christian Democrat and associated with the greatest political tradition of ideas in Europe and the sister party of Angela Merkel's party: Don't call me blue brown! I'm a Christian Democrat. I know where we stand in terms of valuation. I know which negotiating rooms I am prepared to enter and which negotiating rooms I will step out of. Do not take lightly the matter of browning, who is allowed to give a Nazi coat or rasistant coat. It is not I who have pursued the policy that has meant that people who do not really have asylum reasons and reasons for protection have been allowed to stay in Sweden while others have been expelled or have never had the chance to apply for asylum in, for example, Sweden. I know where our values go. Take the climate and environmental debate more seriously than making such sweeping accusations.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-408	Madam President, I would like A long morning debate is coming to an end. In view of the last line shift, I guess I have to testify that I, too, have attended Sunday school, so that you won't hesitate about it. I was going to talk about the lines, which Ebba Busch was on. There are queues in many places in Sweden. It is not just care queues as a result of the health debt that has been built up during the pandemic. We will now work it down together. We've been on the subject of unemployment a little. It is, of course, a scourge for people's freedom and hope for a future. But there are also queues elsewhere. There are queues at the police station. There are queues in our courts. There's a line in the penitentiary. There are queues in to the DA's room. There are queues at the EFC. There are huge queues at the National Forensic Centre, which is so important for us to be able to clear up crimes on time. Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, the rule of law is fundamental. It's not something you can dribble away. It is not a budget line comparable to the Glesbygdsverket. The Court of Justice is much more important. You'll all have to excuse me. It is also very important with the Glebygdsverket. If I'm going to choose, I don't want to offend anyone. I just said I went to Sunday school. We see the seriousness here. We are now in a situation where people are concerned and upset about life, where violence rules and people are in danger of being executed at any time and anywhere on the street. The risk is not enormous, but it happens. There is a risk that it will turn over to a police state that you might be worried about. That risk should not be underestimated. We must put the rule of law first. That's the Liberal election promise for 2022. The state of law must be restored. That is the basis of the whole liberal state, and we should not miss it.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-415	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard speeches from all party leaders here in Parliament. From the blue-brown block – I will call it the blue-brown block, whatever individual parties call themselves – we have once again heard the same tired recited melody. Someone else in the world is going to tackle the climate crisis. The emissions shall be reduced elsewhere. Some other time, perhaps later, we may have built something that could possibly capture the emissions we cannot cope with now. You take a little bit for the forehead. Where are the possibilities in this? Where's the fighting spirit? Where is the will for change that has made you choose to engage in politics since you literally went to school? The climate crisis is happening now. At the same time as the sad message that has been given is cranking one more time in this Chamber, I see something else outside the window, how something new is coming. Young people around the world no longer accept that adults ignore the climate and delay the transition. The mothers in the suburbs no longer accept that their children are left behind in school and die on the street. Women no longer accept the silence surrounding the violence that befalls them and their children where they should be most secure, although there has been a great deal of silence in the House here today on this particular issue. Another world is not only possible, she's on her way. On a quiet day, I can hear her breathing. That's what the Indian writer Arundhati Roy writes. To all the young people who are struggling to stop climate change, to the mothers who are demanding justice for their children and to the women who are no longer silent about men's violence, I say: In your struggle I can hear another world breathing. And with climate and justice policies, we are creating it.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-421	Madam President, I would like It's so boring if you don't get any lines, so I thought I'd make sure Märta Stenevi gets it now. Speaking of the climate: Right now electricity costs at home in Örebro SEK 2 per kilowatt hour – just one such thing! Karlshamn's power plant is being burned right now, and it can only be said that on 15 September 2021, when the sun shines, we burn full of fossil fuels to get electricity in Sweden. This is somewhere a breakdown when it comes to getting electricity at the right time and in the right place. Thankfully, we have European cooperation that changes this. However, my question concerns something else. The renewed interest of the Green Party in combating crime is gratifying. I heard the Minister for Democracy, who is also here in the room, recently tell me that she does not think that a crown of public support should go to mad fundamentalists. I appreciate this, because it is time to put an end to this now. But does the Green Party also want to fight the clans? Can the Green Party consider taking steps to fight down this medieval phenomenon that puts its claws in people's freedom?
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-425	Madam President, I would like First, I think we need to sort out the concepts a little bit here. Sweden has an export of electricity corresponding to all three Baltic States' consumption in volume last year. That we would have an electricity shortage in Sweden is not true. On the other hand, we have problems with the capacity and the transfer; that is the case. There are a number of measures on the way to faster roll-out of electricity networks, and of course Johan Pehrson also knows that. But we do not have a shortage in the production of electricity in Sweden today. Perhaps Johan Pehrson can also answer a question, Madam President. If it were the case that the Swedish Democrats would let the Liberals into a future blue-brown government – can Johan Pehrson answer if one will stand by the Paris Agreement in such a situation? I never got a real answer to that. We are prepared to fight all organised criminal structures, whether we call them gangs, MC clubs or clans, whatever their origins. Organized crime must be combated.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-429	Madam President, I would like I'm glad. Today we have a power plant running that is spraying carbon dioxide right here and now. At least I've been upset and saddened by what I see in the IPCC report. But in Sweden we burn these fossil fuels, and there is smoke straight up in the sky – on Sunday school. This is unbelievable, and for seven years you've had the chance to change this. But it's too little management and too little capacity. Nuclear power is being shut down, and we are not making a fossil-free transition. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Green Party can now take the word clans into its mouth. We have structures in vulnerable areas that belong in the Middle Ages and that we must face with vigour. They drain our welfare systems, they commit crimes, they threaten and they blackmail. They make sure that people are deprived of their freedom. But I am content with this, because I think it was the first time I have heard an environmentalist mention that there are clans in Sweden and that they must be fought. It's time for that.
i-e53f454f2ed234c8-434	Madam President, I would like That's the way it is. I belong to a clan – a very strong, matriarchally controlled clan. It's an amazing clan. And it has nothing to do with organised crime, I can say. The structures involved in organised crime, regardless of what one bases on community, must be countered. That's it. There are mc gangs, there are gangs based on friendship and there are a number of other different structures for this, and they are to be fought. But unfortunately we have to get back to this, Johan Pehrson : We have now for years expanded the renewable at a very fast pace. If the honourable Member wants to join the Green Party in closing a fossil-powered power plant – ask my guest! Of course we're gonna do it. Let's close it. But do not use this power plant as some sort of argument that we would have too low a production of renewable energy in Sweden! We can expand it much more, but again: we export clean electricity each year corresponding to the entire consumption in three Baltic states.
