i-a7292bf9808175eb-0	Ladies and gentlemen! M inna ladies and gentlemen! This has been a term of office like no one else in Swedish politics. We have repeatedly seen events and events that have not occurred before. It started already on 25 September 2018 with the first Prime Minister's vote after an election according to the new rules that had been introduced a few years earlier. As a result, the Prime Minister was not tolerated by the Riksdag. Then began the record-long formation of government, which took 134 days from election day to the day of the new government's formal take-up. During that period we experienced events that we had not seen before in Swedish politics, such as the President's Prime Minister candidates being voted down by the Riksdag, not once but twice before a government could be formed. Then followed about a year of more everyday political work, and so the pandemic struck. And again we had to break new ground and create ways of working that had not existed before. It has always been my ambition that the Riksdag should continue to carry out its important tasks – despite the pandemic. The Riksdag has done the same. Working methods have changed on an unprecedented scale, but the tasks are the same. Members have worked from home to a large extent, but all have been on duty – except those who have been on sick leave or on other grounds. So the other week the motion of censure came against Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. The Parliament has examined claims of censure before, but for the first time since the phenomenon was formally introduced in the late 1960s, such a claim was accepted. In parallel with this, we have also drawn attention to two important jubilees. Throughout the 2018 – 2022 term, we celebrate 100 years of Swedish democracy within the framework of what we call the democracy anniversary. It is 100 years since the major electoral reform led to women finally having to vote in parliamentary elections and the abolition of the various voting restrictions in municipal and county elections. This autumn, in September, it is 100 years since the first parliamentary elections took place where women finally took part. It's worth celebrating and paying attention. This year we also mark a second anniversary in the form of 50 years of one-chamber holiday. It has been 50 years since the first meeting of the First Chamber of Parliament, which took place in January 1971. All of this shows that Swedish democracy is constantly changing. But I would like to point out that it is a democracy in development, not a democracy in crisis. We use the term "government crisis" when a government is forced to resign, but Swedish democracy is strong. We have a high turnout; 87 per cent voted in the last Parliamentary elections. We have stable institutions, we have free media and a free academy, and the courts are independent of political power. Everything is characteristic of a stable and functioning democracy. During the ongoing process, all actors use the tools available in the democratic parliamentary toolbox. It is a vote of censure, a decision not to call for additional elections, presidential rounds – all of this follows from the rules that we have agreed for our democracy. It's turbulent, but it follows the rules. This leads me to the events of the day. I gave Stefan Löfven the task last Thursday to probe the conditions for forming a government that is tolerated by the Riksdag. He has earlier today completed his final report and announced that he considers that he has a solution that means that he can form a government that will be tolerated by the Riksdag. According to 6th chapter. Section 4, first paragraph, the form of government is for me to submit proposals to the new Prime Minister for the approval of Parliament. I have consulted representatives of each parliamentary party group and consulted the Vice-Presidents. I have also informed His Majesty the King, the Head of State. I now propose that the Riksdag appoint Stefan Löfven, the Social Democrats, as the new Prime Minister, who intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The vote will take place on Wednesday at 2 p.m.
