i-ddf0804df8911544-0	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me whether I intend to commission the Swedish School Inspectorate to examine in particular how the schools' swimming education works and whether I intend to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to map how many children cannot swim and, if necessary, develop guidelines for how swimming education can be done safely. The Education Act stipulates that education within each school form and within the recreation centre must be equivalent, regardless of where in the country it is organised. Equipping all children with important skills for life is a key part of the Swedish model. Being able to swim is vital. Therefore, the syllabus in the subject of sport and health for comprehensive school places very specific demands on students to be able to swim in order to meet the knowledge requirements and get an approved grade. H uvudman is responsible for the students getting the education they are entitled to. The school is responsible for giving students extra adaptations or, if an investigation shows it, especially support if it is feared that a student will not reach the knowledge requirements. The school is also responsible for ensuring that swimming instruction is carried out safely. The preliminary grade statistics of the Swedish National Agency for Education for the academic year 2020/ 21 show that the proportion of pupils in grade 6 who achieve at least the grade E in sport and health is 92 per cent, which is the same proportion as the Swedish National Agency for Education's official grade statistics show for the academic year 2019/ 20. The corresponding share for grade 9 amounts to 92.5 per cent for the academic year 2020/ 21 and 92.2 per cent for the academic year 2019/ 20. A follow-up by the Swedish National Agency for Education shows that the main reason that students do not meet the knowledge requirement for swimming is that students are given too few swimming courses. These include organisational difficulties such as getting times in the swimming pool or organising swimming lessons within the regular schedule. In order, among other things, to increase the proportion that reaches the requirements of the subject of sport and health, the Government has decided to increase the guaranteed teaching time in the subject of sport and health by 100 hours from 1 July 2019. I can see that a very large proportion of students in grade 6 and grade 9 in comprehensive school can swim. However, there is a group of students who continued to fail the grade. The Swedish School Inspectorate's instructions show that the Authority has the possibility to carry out a quality review after an analysis of needs. In order to increase the proportion of students who reach swimming skills, the government invested SEK 300 million in 2018 in a free swimming school for preschool class students. However, the Government's commitment to continued free swimming school was rejected when the Day of Iksdagen decided in line with the proposal for the 2019 budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-ddf0804df8911544-7	Madam President, I would like Being able to swim is necessary in Sweden. With all our waters, lakes, seas and warm summers, swimming is not only important for safety reasons but also for social reasons. This year the statistics have been dark when it comes to drowning accidents. In July alone, 26 people drowned, which was 15 more than the same time last year. So far this year, over 80 people have drowned, which suggests that even the total this year will be very boring. In the teacher magazine, which is also available at lalaren.se, Lenita Jällhage did a number of articles about swimming at school this spring. Because no one knows how many of our children can swim today. The last time the National Board of Education did such a survey was in 2014, when 95 percent of our children could swim. Just as the Minister for Education Anna Ekström says, swimming is part of the field of sport. For example, in grade 6 you should be able to swim 200 meters of which 50 meters on your back. But since 2014, the school has changed, and no one knows how many can now swim. A teacher in Malmö testified that of his 44 students in grade 6 35 could not swim during the spring semester. So 9 out of 44 could swim. It is incredibly worrying – safety, as I said, but also social. Not being able to swim as a teenager in Sweden when we have sunny, fine days can be devastating. I therefore asked the Minister for Education Anna Ekström if the Swedish National Agency for Education could do a new survey, a new survey, on how many children in Sweden can actually swim because the last survey was done in 2014. I also asked if the School Inspectorate would be able to review how swimming education at school works so that we know what the problem is. Is it logistics, is it money or are there other reasons why swimming skills seem to fall in Sweden?
i-ddf0804df8911544-12	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Axén Olin, for the very fine exposé! Kristina Axén Olin clearly showed why we in Sweden have done an unusual thing. We have written into the knowledge requirements for sports and health that students should be able to swim a certain number of meters. It is a kind of detailed regulation that we do not see in other subjects and that we do not see for other areas of knowledge. The reason why we have so clearly indicated, somewhat contrary to how we usually write syllabuses and curricula in Sweden, that one should be able to swim a certain number of meters on the stomach and a certain number of meters on the back is of course that it can be life-changing. The reason is also that we have an active outdoor life with an all-man right in Sweden, and we want to give the opportunity for everyone to be out and move and play, swim and swim without danger. We also know that there may be situations where it is absolutely necessary to be a swimmer. Being able to save others is also part of what is taught in our Swedish school, Madam President. Thanks to the studies that have already been carried out, we know where the problems lie. They are often found in the organizational. Of the many contacts I have had with schools during the pandemic, I have also understood that it has been particularly difficult given the availability of halls and that opening hours in the halls have been very limited. This is one of the many reasons why the government did not give up on the wise proposals we made in 2018 for a free swimming school for preschool class students. Although Kristina Axén Olin and her party friends voted down the wise proposal, the government has come back. I can mention, for example, the spring amendment budget for 2021, where we spent SEK 200 million on free and infection-proof holiday activities, which can very well be used for swimming instruction and play in water. This interpellation shows quite clearly what I find a bit boring about Moderate school politics. Instead of spending money on what can help schools to ensure that children receive the support they need, the Moderates spend money on inspecting. Inspection money can be very good. But, Madam President, if children and students are to be given the chance to learn to swim, we must have good resources in school and good access to halls. We can't get that through more inspections.
i-ddf0804df8911544-18	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Minister of Education Anna Ekström still does not answer my questions about the Swedish National Agency for Education can get a new survey, because it was seven years ago, and if the Swedish School Inspectorate can review the swimming education and how it works so that we can get answers to what is happening. I am convinced that the Minister for Education Anna Ekström also has contact with many teachers and principals around Sweden and certainly, like me, know that there are problems with swimming skills. In my experience and all my conversations, it's not really money. However, if that were the economic issue, then we, the Moderates, could of course also discuss such an issue. But when principals and teachers describe the problem to me, it is, among other things, just as Anna Ekström says, logistics. You don't have time to go off with classes during the short sports hour, but you have to make schedule changes, take from other play-downs and change times to go to a swimming pool and carry out swimming lessons. But there are also other things that hurt in the matter. I am convinced that Minister of Education Anna Ekström also knows about this. We have a large group of refugee children who in 2015 – 2016 came from countries where you don't have water, lakes and seas at all in the way we have, and they don't have parents who can swim. There is now an idea that there are teachers who look between their fingers to the fact that children do not learn to swim in Sweden. There may be cultural reasons why you do not have bathing habits, but there may also be religious reasons why girls may not appear in bathing suits. It may be that schools are not able to cope with this problem. Madam President, I would like I think this is incredibly important. All children in Sweden should have the same opportunities. As I said, swimming is important from a social point of view, but there is also a safety aspect. It is incredibly important that swimming, as all parties have agreed, is part of the sports subject and that all children in grade 6 should be able to swim. Therefore, it is important that we find out what it really looks like. Has it become widespread that many children in Sweden cannot swim? If the Swedish National Agency for Education does not do a new survey, we can only speculate and hear from individual teachers, as the teacher in Malmö that I just described. He says that of 44 children in his classes, 9 can swim. Madam President, I would like If Minister Anna Ekström thinks it is as important as me and we Moderates do, why can't the Swedish National Agency for Education get a new survey? And why can't the School Inspectorate look at whether there are cultural or religious reasons why children in Sweden don't swim and why the school chooses little not to see that problem?
i-ddf0804df8911544-24	Madam President, I would like We have a school office in Sweden, the Swedish National Agency for Education, which has a broad mission: to keep track of developments in Swedish schools. It is clear that the government could put detailed assignments to the Swedish National Agency for Education to investigate the subjects for subject and part of the curriculum that were considered important at the moment. It was done under the alliance government. This led to a governance that received strong criticism from, among other things, Statskontoret. After that, the government has deliberately chosen to use the administrative management that we have for all the authorities in Sweden: to give a broad mandate and resources to carry out that task. Madam President, I would like You could go back to putting a lot of assignments at the National Board of Education during the time of the alliance government. For my part, I am convinced that it is wiser to ensure that the Swedish National Agency for Education has the time and resources to set up its evaluation work in the way that the Swedish National Agency for Education, with its broad and deep knowledge of the conditions in school, finds appropriate. Madam President, I would like The school inspectorate also has a large grant, which has increased considerably in recent years, and a confidence from the government to use that grant in the way you think is appropriate according to a pre-arranged plan. I have great confidence in both the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate's ability to use their evaluation and inspection resources wisely and I am convinced that it will also work in terms of swimming education, as we have already seen. We have seen a number of evaluations and inspections on that particular issue. I would also like to remind Kristina Axén Olin that swimming education is not freely chosen work at school. It is part of the central content. It's supposed to be taught. The student who has not received swimming instruction and who does not meet the knowledge requirements, to swim the prescribed meters, shall not reach the grade step E. Madam President, I would like So this is not something that schools can ignore. Schools do not have the luxury of ignoring the knowledge requirements of swimming for organizational reasons. It's something to be done by the schools. We know that the pandemic has really caused this. The government, with strong support from and good cooperation between the parliamentary parties, and Kristina Axén Olin personally, has had the opportunity, with the support of amended legislation which was quickly taken from the House during the last parliamentary term, to issue a regulation. It provides the opportunity to move different knowledge elements between grades. I assume that swimming knowledge is one of those subjects where you will have to move between grades. But the point of that regulation, Madam President, was to ensure that these elements can be overcome even during a pandemic. I would like to refer once again to the important efforts that the government has proposed and is proposing in supporting holiday school and summer holiday activities. It is a very important activity to ensure that those students who need extra support to meet the requirements for swimming skills can also get it.
i-ddf0804df8911544-32	Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying that the Social Democrats have joined the Moderates' repeated proposal for a school of praise and to expand the school of praise in Sweden. But that doesn't solve the problem that my interpellation is about. Minister of Education Anna Ekström says that the Swedish National Agency for Education cannot regulate in detail, that there are many tasks and that you cannot do so. But swimming is not just about the subject of schooling and reviewing the subject like any other. Non-swimming knowledge in Sweden is about life or death, Madam President. It is incredibly important to ensure that swimming skills in Sweden are high. It is also important in view of another issue that we often discuss in this House: our lack of integration. We have problems with children and families coming from other countries not being sufficiently integrated and not entering Swedish society. There, swimming is also important, from a social point of view. All children in Sweden should be able to swim and take part in swimming during the summer vacation and should not be forced to make up reasons to avoid it because you do not want to admit that you can not swim. I think the National Agency for Education could be given such an assignment. As I said, this is not just any subject. And if the Swedish School Inspectorate had received such an assignment, it would also have been interesting to see what is really behind that there will be an alarm report after the alarm report that swimming knowledge in Sweden is decreasing. But hopefully, Madam President, staff from both the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate are listening, perhaps sharing my concerns and choosing to look at this for themselves. I find it sad that we do not want to find out if there has been any change since 2014, what it depends on and what we can do about it.
i-ddf0804df8911544-37	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Axén Olin, for raising this very important question! I must insist that I think the debate is clarification. We fully agree on the importance of being able to swim. We fully agree on how crucial it can be to save their own or others' lives in very difficult situations but also to have a good life in Swedish nature and the Swedish lakes. What distinguishes us is that my means of achieving higher swimming skills are to support the teachers and schools, to ensure that there are means, resources and opportunities to arrange swimming instruction in an efficient and safe way and to cover up for the swimming instruction that may have been lost through various forms of holiday activities. When the government allocates money to this, the Moderates vote them off. Instead, Kristina Axén Olin wants to spend money on inspecting and talking about what is wrong. I think this is a clarification debate that shows the difference between government policy and Moderate policy. Thank you for this too, Kristina Axén Olin!
i-ddf0804df8911544-40	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Grubb has asked me whether I will take any steps to ensure that there are procedures at the National Agency for Education to check that there are no irregularities, that funds unduly paid are repaid and that next year only funds will be distributed to associations that the National Agency for Education knows for sure will use the grants for the intended activities. Homework help can be an important support for many students. Primary school, primary school, Sami school or special school authorities may apply for a state grant to provide pupils with help with homework or other school work outside the regular teaching period. Also non-profit associations that contribute to the important work of giving students homework help can benefit from funds. The state grant regulation clearly states that non-profit associations that are granted state grants in their activities must respect the ideas of democracy including equality, prohibition of discrimination and respect for the equal value and rights of all people. It is the National Board of Education that decides and distributes the state grant to applicants that meets the conditions for receiving the grant. The recipient of the state grant is obliged to report to the National Agency for Education how the funds have been used and provide the information requested by the National Agency for Education. In addition, in the case of non-profit associations, an auditor shall review the financial statements and present his observations in a certificate attached to the financial statements. The National Agency for Education may require reimbursement of the grant, inter alia, if incorrect information has been provided in such a way that the grant has been wrongly provided or is too high or the grant has not been used for the purpose for which it was granted. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's instructions, the authority must monitor and evaluate the state aid and grants that the authority administers. The state grant for help with homework or other school work outside of regular teaching time is one of the grants that the authority must follow up and evaluate. The government is following the work of the agency and is prepared to take action if necessary. The funds allocated to the grant shall increase the opportunities for all pupils to develop as far as possible in their learning and contribute to greater equivalence. Not a penny should go to radicalization and extremism.
i-ddf0804df8911544-45	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fact that pupils sometimes bring home work, homework, belong to schoolwork and usually involve repetition of what they have learned during school day, ending what they did not have time to do or preparing for a test. The successful implementation of these lessons is, of course, a prerequisite for successful schooling. Some students need extra homework help, such as external homework help. This may be because the parents do not have enough time or feel that their own knowledge is not sufficient. Then it is good that the students are given external homework help. However, it is important that this homework help is carried out by competent people who are well acquainted with the knowledge that students are expected to learn in the various subjects in which they need support. It is very important that this is ensured before we distribute our common tax resources to this end. Through the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Government has chosen to distribute grants for homework aid to municipalities and schools, as well as non-profit associations. I would like to emphasise here that it is our common tax funds that are being distributed. Is our tax million going for the intended purpose? Is the external homework aid carried out by competent persons? Madam President, I would like As far as municipalities and schools are concerned, I am confident that tax funds are used for the intended activities and that homework aid is carried out by competent people. However, with regard to the list of 142 non-profit associations that have been awarded grants, I am unfortunately not as safe. The conditions to be fulfilled for associations to receive state grants include that they are non-profit-making, are democratically structured, respect democracy's ideas including gender equality, have completed two years of operation, are fully or partly focused on helping students with homework and other school work outside regular teaching hours, do not have Swedish tax debts or fees at Kronofogdemyndigheten and so on. These are the guidelines listed on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website. All of this shall be ensured by the Swedish National Agency for Education receiving two years' annual reports and a protocol confirming the composition of the Board. This is supposed to be the proof of this. Madam President, I would like I do not believe that that is enough to ensure that the homework aid will be implemented by competent people or that the homework aid will be carried out at all. Writing down or partially copying an activity report is unfortunately something many can do. You can find a plethora of suggestions via a simple googling online. You can also falsify a board report. Even if it is correct, it does not say anything about the competence to perform homework help exists or that the association will implement its commitment. For this dubious homework aid operation, the government has given the National Agency for Education the right to distribute 60 million of our common tax funds. In view of this, I have asked the Minister for Education Anna Ekström whether she will take any steps to ensure that there are procedures within the National Agency for Education to check that there are no irregularities, that funds unduly paid are reimbursed and that next year only funds will be distributed to associations that the National Agency for Education knows for sure will use the grants for the intended activities.
i-ddf0804df8911544-54	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that I am aware that I sound a little rosy in my throat, but I am perfectly healthy and have proof of that. No one should have to worry that I am careless with any recommendations or restrictions. This is a problem that I occasionally get with my neck. To Jörgen Grubb, I would like to say that I was truly rosy when I saw the media data that existed and from which I assume is the basis for the interpellation that he has provided. It was claimed that associations may have cheated on state grants for homework aid. If this information is correct, it is totally unacceptable, and then, of course, action should be taken. The state grants that we have allocated to support students in homework and other school work outside of teaching time should go to just this. I do not know what upsets me the most: if the state's money and our common resources have not gone to what we want them to go to – homework help – or if the money has gone to activities that the state should not give a single penny to. Any kind of subsidy crime is unacceptable, and it is very serious if it is the case that organisations have deliberately cheated money. As I see it, Madam President, the regulatory framework is clear. Ideal associations granted state grants for homework should – should not – respect the ideas of democracy, including equality and respect for the equal value of all people. The authority responsible for granting state grants for homework aid, the National School of Education, is now reviewing the financial statements for the 2020 grant year. Because it is the case, Madam President, that these associations should give a proper account of how the money has been spent. Should it be found that incorrect information has been provided, that the grant has been wrongly granted or that the grant has not been used for the purpose for which it was intended, I assume that the Authority will act. The government is following the agency's work very closely and is prepared to act if necessary. Madam President, I would like Jörgen Grubbs' question is not just about how the money has been spent after it has been paid out. It is also about whether it is really right to pay out the money in advance to an association that may later use the money incorrectly. Here, Madam President, we find ourselves in an interesting dilemma. If the authorities are going to have to be bomb-proof that every non-profit organisation to which you pay operating grants will use the money properly in the future, we will have a different management model than the one we now have and where associations apply for funds, talk about how to use the money and then on their own responsibility ensure that the money is used correctly. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that it is not the responsibility of the National Agency for Education, the Government or even the Riksdag to use the money properly. It is the associations that have applied for money that have a great responsibility of their own to act properly.
i-ddf0804df8911544-61	Madam President, I would like I can reply directly to the Minister: we must have a regulatory framework that ensures that there are no opportunities for cheating, that is to say, a more secure regulatory framework. That's where you have to start. I hope, of course, that the Minister's intention is that our common tax funds should be distributed to the intended activities and that it should be of good quality and provide the students with all the assistance promised. I also hope that we agree that all activities will be stopped immediately if fraud is detected and that the tax revenue paid will then be recovered. Anything else would be an indecent use of our common tax resources. I have a list of 142 associations that have received grants to do homework aid and that have received a total of SEK 60 million to share. Most of them are immigrant associations. What does this signal? Are these especially good at doing homework? I don't know. One reflection I make is that there may be a strong need for homework help for immigrant groups. But do these very associations have sufficient competence to carry out homework with good quality? That's what it's all about, isn't it? I am thinking primarily of access to the Swedish language. I can't substantiate my doubts with knowledge. However, the Swedish National Agency for Education is unlikely to be able to do so either, since all that is required are two years' annual reports and a record from a board of directors. As I said, this can be found largely on the Internet or copied from someone else. Unfortunately, today is so simple. Madam President, I would like Several of these 142 associations have been recognised in various media and have been strongly questioned about their activities. In some cases, the business has been completely lacking. It has also been shown that there are associations that have an anti-Semitic agenda and have celebrated acts of terror. To this we can add that various associations have similar activity reports and that many phrases are exactly the same. There are also associations that have employees or paid for which neither employers' contributions nor taxes have been paid. Madam President, I would like This makes me very worried. One can only speculate on what all these millions of grants are used for. Several of these associations, in addition to the government's state subsidies, also receive grants from municipalities and regions. If you are going to distribute our common tax funds as subsidies, you have to be very responsible and do everything in your power to ensure that the subsidies are used properly. One must certainly not distribute grants to associations that have or can be assumed to have a suspicious activity – point. Madam President, I would like The Minister mentions the Swedish National Agency for Education's actions in fine words. But at present they obviously do not work, despite these fine words. That's what worries me. It looks good on paper, but the important thing is how it is in reality. Even if the National Board of Education were to take all the measures listed by the Minister, the fact remains that millions of dollars have been distributed under very uncertain premises. How to get them back, I don't know. If the state grant to help with homework is to continue to be distributed, the Swedish Democrats suggest that the associations should be obliged to do homework in the school premises under the responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor. In this way, we ensure that the homework aid is carried out at all and that it is done in a correct manner and with good quality.
i-ddf0804df8911544-71	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you once again that there is work going on at the National Agency for Education to review and carefully review the reports submitted. I note that Jörgen Grubb says in his speech that I cannot substantiate my doubts with knowledge and that he has only speculation. Although it is only speculation and even though Jörgen Grubb cannot substantiate his doubts with knowledge, he makes very far-reaching accusations. If there is justification for those accusations, I assume that the National Agency for Education will be very clear that they will recover this money. I also assume that the Swedish National Agency for Education will return to the Government if it is the case that the grant conditions that apply are not to be filled and if there is a need to tighten up the examination of this type of grant application. In that case, I assume that the National Agency for Education will do so with knowledge, firm evidence and firm observations and without speculation. The issue we are discussing is serious. Swedish students should receive the support they need in school in order to learn what they have to bring out of life in order to be able to work, study and be a responsible citizen who can distinguish between speculation and facts. You're supposed to get that knowledge with you from school. The fact that students have homework and get help with their homework is positive. I think that homework has a role in Swedish school, for example by consolidating the knowledge that you have gained in teaching, by repeating things that you need to wear in and by practising on other important parts of our curricula, such as completing a task on time and learning to work hard on tasks when needed. That is not expressed in the curriculum, Madam President, but that is something like what it means. We have support for homework to help the students get this. I would like to stress that the homework aid should not be carried out instead of teaching. There should be no need for a headmaster who supervises how homework is done. The medical aid should be something that complements teaching and never something that takes place instead of teaching. Madam President, I would like I will continue my work to ensure that Swedish children receive the support they need to do their homework in an equal and safe way. If it should be found out that the reports that have appeared in the media are correct, I will not hesitate to take action.
i-ddf0804df8911544-76	Madam President, I would like I can answer Anna Ekström right away. Neither I nor the citizens should know exactly how these associations operate. In fact, it is the government and the National Agency for Education that should have full knowledge and knowledge that these associations are doing this properly and correctly. For my part, I have spent two hours googling a little on some of these compounds. That's when it looked very strange. But I think the National Agency for Education has much more resources for investigations than I do. The media channel Riks recently made an amazing report about the association Rajo, one of the 142 grant recipients for homework help. The association has received more than 1 million in state grants. They were exposed by having a fictitious president who did not exist more than as a name. They receive grants for the local rent, although the business is said to be carried out at ABF's premises, which are already tax-financed. ABF later concluded the cooperation with this so-called association. Rajo claims to cooperate with local schools in his homework aid work, which also proved to be incorrect. The other activities that the association advertises on its website do not exist in reality either. And yes– first after the revelation of the Swedish National Agency for Education chooses to go in and do an investigation of the association. Madam President, I would like There are more examples that grants for homework help are given to associations where through a couple of searches on the net you can find things that make me worried anyway. In the newspaper Expressen it is possible to read about Group 194. According to the famous terrorist researcher Magnus Ranstorp at the Swedish Defence College, this is a propaganda group that celebrates child martyrs, demonstrates for convicted terrorists to be free and praises attacks on Israeli school children. Despite this, the association receives state grants to carry out homework aid plus other grants from the state and the municipality.
i-ddf0804df8911544-80	Madam President, I would like On one point, I would like to give my unreserved support to Jörgen Grubb: The Swedish National Agency for Education has more resources than Jörgen Grubb if his resources are only enough to google for a few hours. I would like to remind Jörgen Grubb and everyone who listens to the debate about a very important starting point: in Sweden the responsibility for the action lies with the person or organisation who acts. The organisations that, if the suspicions are correct, have used government money incorrectly should have consequences. Money should not go to radicalisation. Money should not go to extremism. Money intended for homework help should go to homework help. The responsibility, if it is the case that the money has been used incorrectly, I would like to place with the organizers. In Swedish tradition, we take responsibility for our actions. To ignore the responsibilities of the organisations and focus only those authorities that have distributed money is to make it easy for themselves. The organisations that have made mistakes should, of course, have consequences. I assume that the Swedish National Agency for Education will tell the government if the regulations need to be changed, and I look forward with great interest to the review that the Swedish National Agency for Education is now doing.
i-ddf0804df8911544-84	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked me several questions about the costs of the introduction of Ertms. Ertms is an EU-wide signalling system for railways. It aims to enable efficient cross-border train traffic. Sweden and the other Member States are obliged under EU law to introduce Ertms on the core network by 2030. The requirements were already implemented in Swedish legislation in 2004. It has also been possible in instalments to seek EU support for investment in Ertms on-board equipment. Several Swedish railway operators, including regions, have applied for and received EU support. The Finnish Transport Agency has overall responsibility for the planning and implementation of Ertms in the infrastructure of the Swedish rail system. The implementation planning shall be carried out in close cooperation with representatives of the equipment industry, railway undertakings and other traffic organisers. I assume the Finnish Transport Administration will live up to this. I take seriously the fact that the costs have increased both for the state and for regional rail traffic, and I would like the Finnish Transport Agency to come back with proposals for measures and an analysis of various options for action. The mission shall be reported on 30 November 2021.
i-ddf0804df8911544-88	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. There are a great many different subjects being debated here in Parliament, but I do not think that rail traffic and safety systems are commonplace. The current traffic system is called ATC. For those of you who are listening and interested, I can tell you that every time you look out of the train window you can see small yellow signs with three black letters, ATC. It is therefore the current traffic management system. It was introduced in the 1980s, and that was a while ago. Now is the time for a new system, for thankfully technology is also being developed. As the Government said, there is a European agreement that we should have this common system. The idea is simply to make it easier for trains to cross national borders. Today you may even have to reload goods or passengers when moving trains between two countries. So this is a good thing, I have to say. I support the idea and the idea 100%. Madam President, I would like However, there is a big one in this, and so it is not the very idea of the common system. I am by no means an expert on technology and what are the pros and cons of the system. But it is simply about how you have introduced Ertms, that is, when, where and how and who will pay. That it gets shaky when you introduce a whole new technology is perfectly understandable. You even have to expect that there will be cost increases. It's always like that, and they usually disappear after a while. However, the start-up period of Ertms has been running for almost ten years, and cost reductions continue. The additional costs today are nearly $250 million. The additional costs have not brought added value. In that case, we would have had another discussion. There has been no higher quality as a result of the costs. What they have brought, I can come back to. But the taxpayers in Norrbotten, Västerbotten, Västernorrland and Jämtland have paid for this system. Then I would just like to inform the Minister for Infrastructure that the four most northern regions have far more important challenges to deal with, such as health care and long-distance care. Madam President, I would like Ertms is therefore currently in principle only in northern Sweden, on the Bothnia Line and Ådalsbanan. Recently it has also been introduced on something called the Haparanda Line. So there is a small stump in Dalarna, but it is mainly in the north that this has been put into operation. It is not only the case that the four northern regions have been allowed to be guinea pigs, but they have also had to pay for it. The state has decided that's how it should be done. We in the north are going to experiment, and we're going to pay for it. I don't think that's reasonable. I do not think that is acceptable. I even think it is unethical for the state to shovel the costs. Therefore, I would like to repeat some of my questions to the Government, to which I do not really think I have received an answer: what are the consequences for the Minister of four regions becoming experimental regions for Ertms, which, according to estimates, has cost almost 250 million extra to taxpayers, and does he intend to take any initiatives in this regard? And does the Minister intend to act to ensure that the four regions of Västernorrland, Jämtland, Västerbotten and Norrbotten receive financial compensation for the additional costs that this has brought about?
i-ddf0804df8911544-98	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jörgen Berglund, for the commitment! I think it's important. It is true that it has been a while since Ertms was debated, but the fact is that since the decisions on implementation came in 2004, and really long before then, the issue has actually been up in Parliament for discussion several times, sometimes with demands to completely interrupt the project. It has been rejected by different majorities, one should be honest and say. Sometimes, as has perhaps been the case over the last ten years, there have been calls for compensation for the introduction, especially to operators. The train companies have to pay for on-board equipment, but on the other hand they have also been able to seek support for this. In the case of train operations in the north, it is not the State that has ordered anyone to use either the Botnia Line or the Ådalsbanan as a trial activity. This has actually been a regional commitment. The regions have said that they want to be involved: we want to try the new technology, we want to be the first to do this! Then it has been concluded that it is appropriate to test it. The result has been, among other things, that Botniabanan 2019 had five times more punctuality than with ATC. It has actually been of benefit to the travellers, but it has also been implementation problems. I got a list where it had been calculated that to Norrtåg the state has raised SEK 268 million in various forms of supplements. It is not, therefore, that Jörgen Berglund claims that the regions themselves have had to pay for this. The state has done quite a lot of work with support. Nevertheless, it is a concern with cost increases and technical problems both in Sweden and throughout Europe. That is why the issue has often been the subject of discussion. The latest forecasts now mean that I have chosen to go in with a clear directive to the Swedish Transport Administration to make an analysis of the costs but also to look at other alternatives. It is a challenge in a situation where ATC is an old system. I think everyone knows and realises that the best thing is to have a well-functioning ERTMS system across Europe with all the benefits it brings to us who want seamless train traffic across Europe but not at any price. We need to have a system whereby price pressure is put in place both in terms of costs for the operation of Ertms and in terms of investment costs and increased functionality. Otherwise, there is no reason to continue the implementation at the current rate. With the 2030 deadline, I believe that everyone realises that this is a challenge not only for Sweden but, of course, for the whole of Europe. All EU countries have this challenge. That is the background to the investigation and the assignment I have given to the Swedish Transport Administration. But I am also clear that it is not the case that northern Sweden itself has had to pay the bill. On the contrary, the benefits of new technologies have both been experienced and have been co-financed by the State. If you're involved in trying out new technology, it's both pros and cons. It can be discussed. But I also think that it might have been to the detriment of not having made renovations in Ådalsbanan or in Botniabanan, because it has been important. Finally, for this government and for the infrastructure investments that I am responsible for, investments in northern Sweden have been incredibly prioritised. We are now making more railway investments than ever, not least in northern Sweden. This is the part of Sweden where Jörgen Berglund's party has a sadder history. Important infrastructure investments have been cut off, not least in Norrbotniabanan during its term of government. It is still the case that the Moderates propose SEK 30 billion less for investments, including on Ertms or on railway investments in northern Sweden. It will be a bit tough for the Moderates to get their budget together in this case.
i-ddf0804df8911544-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure. I would like to start by saying that I agree that when Ertms works, it works very well. That is not the problem, it is when it does not work. It is not I who have come to this conclusion, but it is the four northernmost regions with their joint company Norrtåg that have made the calculations of additional costs. It is true, as the Government says, that compensation has been paid, but this is beyond what has been compensated for. There has been a lot of talk about compensating for the so-called technical equipment on board trains. In the case of the 250 million, the large part of the costs for cancelled trains has been reimbursed by replacement buses, and trains that have been in service and repair very many times since they have become standing so that they have not been able to be used and so on. What is not included are the indirect costs for all passengers affected each time a train arrives late or is cancelled. We want more people to go collectively. But if they are to do so, the reliability must be very good. Otherwise, people will choose other modes of transport. That's a bit of what's happened. Madam President, I would like The travelers who have been affected during these ten years could be counted in thousands, perhaps tens of thousands. That's a lot of people. But it's just a vest fan if we were to translate it. What will happen when this system is implemented in the rest of Sweden? Madam President, I would like Just take the place that we are in today, Stockholm, and the traffic that is here. There we would talk about a great many more travellers and much greater costs that the taxpayers in Stockholm or the rest of Sweden would have to bear. For me, it is a question of justice. If you introduce something, it's exactly what the government says. Then you have to be a part of funding. But it cannot be reasonable to take such high costs on regions. That is certainly something that has been said yes to. But it was hardly a prerequisite that there would be so much trouble, for it has actually been. Madam President, I would like Ertms is still under development. The Government has said that it is planned to be implemented by 2030. No one believes in it at all, but you will have to postpone it. Or maybe it'll be the way I interpret it that the Council of State is in on it. You may have to do something completely different and interrupt it. I don't know. Norrtåg's technical manager is probably the person in Sweden who has the best knowledge of how to implement the system in Sweden. He says: We can say that we are in a design phase, although we use the system at the same time. Madam President, I would like I think that's pretty close to the truth. Then everyone realizes that if you design while using something and go live it gets a little crazy. I find it unreasonable, unacceptable and, in fact, unethical to have such an immature system tested on a large scale in northern Sweden and to allow the regions to bear the additional costs. I would like to return to the Minister for Infrastructure. How is the Government thinking about the future implementation of Ertms in the rest of Sweden? Is it also to follow the current financing model, that is to say that there will be quite large additional costs for the different regions? Or should we do something else?
i-ddf0804df8911544-127	Madam President, I would like I would nevertheless like to remind you that the punctuality of the rail system is now considerably higher than it was during the period when it was underinvested substantially. That's the difference. When the decision on Ertms and its implementation was made, which was largely under a moderate government, it was at the same time that efforts in the form of rail maintenance or, for that matter, new investments in rail were not made. Let's do it. As a result, there is a general increase in punctuality. If we count on that social savings, we can see the effects. But that's exactly right. Should we implement with major disruptions in the system throughout Sweden or throughout Europe, the consequences would be great. That is what makes me, as a minister and the government, react and say that we cannot have such an order. That is why we are giving the assignment to Trafikverket to investigate all the different consequences of this and look at options for action. That is also why we at European level have had such a discussion for a very long time. It is clear that there will be a concern if new technologies are not reliable. As for the allocation of costs, I think I mentioned the figure. We got it together to 268 million to regions that the state has provided. Should it be the case that the regions in the north do not want to be involved in the implementation of new technology and say no, of course the Finnish Transport Administration must respect this. I understand that it has been a good cooperation. Users have seen a great many benefits from the implementation of new technologies. Then it will always be the case that consideration is given to the distribution of costs. For me, it has then been important to signal that we want clear accounting of both cost control and the allocation of resources. We have also provided resources from the government, not least to Norr Train, on a number of occasions for the excellent activities they carry out. I have also signalled clearly, and can do so because I have the largest infrastructure budget ever, that we will continue to make important investments to develop the railways in northern Sweden. Jörgen Berglund is in trouble here. In the Moderates' proposal for an infrastructure bill there are 30 billion SEK in precisely developments and investments on the railways. Where is that money going to be taken? I have sometimes asked in political debates whether it is the route between Gothenburg and Borås. Some moderate representatives say that it is the high-speed system and new standards that they are opposed to. No, it's not Gothenburg – Borås, they say. Is it Lund – Hässleholm? It's also part of the mainline system. No, says moderate representatives regionally. Okay. Is that the East Link? Absolutely not. Is it Norrbotniabanan, Botniabanan or an investment in Ådalsbanan? Where are you going to take the SEK 30 billion that we want to spend more than you on developing the Swedish rail system? We have given clear assignments on the development of Norrbotniabanan and are now looking at continued investment in and development of Botniabanan, Ostkustbanan and, for that matter, Malmbanan. These are important investments for large investments and are population growth in northern Sweden. It is an important part for the whole of Sweden to have continued large investments. There the Moderates owe the answer. Finally, with regard to Ertms, I look forward to receiving the Finnish Transport Administration's cost accounting. It is important that such implementation takes place in a way that makes you feel confident and confident that costs during the implementation period lead to improvements. When you follow Ertms in recent years, you can see that sometimes not least for Norr Train has meant a significantly improved punctuality. It's five times more punctuality than with ATC. In some cases, however, this has also led to serious deteriorations when you have had technical problems. Now let the Swedish Transport Administration sort this out and report it properly, and I am prepared to take a further discussion on the implementation of Ertms. The regional participation that exists is important. It is important for the railways and for the future, but it is also important for travellers to feel that there is a proper punctuality.
i-ddf0804df8911544-143	Madam President, I would like I can feel safe standing here because I perceive that I have all the parties regionally in the north behind me when I raise this issue. I am raising a problem that I want the Government to take with it in its dialogue with the Swedish Transport Administration, and that is why I am standing here today. I do not think this is a party political issue, but I think it has to do with decency. I would like to send the Government, when he discusses with the Finnish Transport Administration about the cost picture, that there has been – and even promised – discussion of compensation. But it has failed because of legal problems, as it is said. I also think that the Government can ask the Finnish Transport Agency if they can produce figures on how many tonnes of goods went from rail to road when the Ertms was introduced on the Bothnia Line. There, Metsä Board in Husum is an example, for you stopped running your goods. That's not good. It is sad that in a debate like this, in which we are talking about Ertms, the Government wants to attack the Moderates and what the previous alliance government did. I've told the government before. I know exactly where we stand, and I do not think we need to explain a few 30 billion. I think the Government should explain its 300 billion, which the high-speed train will cost. How will he and the government finance it? However, as I said, I do not want to get involved in this discussion, but I am addressing a subject that I think is well worth discussing and important. I hope that the Government will take these views with it in its continued work, and not least in its continued dialogue with the Swedish Transport Administration. I also hope that the Government has a good contact with, among others, Norrtåg, who can also describe how it has been these years. I think the answer a little bit expresses: Yes, it has been a problem, but it has also been very good. Yes, absolutely – but I would argue that there have been more problems than the Swedish Transport Administration might say that it has been from Norrtåg's perspective.
i-ddf0804df8911544-150	Madam President and Jörgen Berglund! I can see how it's gonna be a little hard to talk about the 30 billion. After all, we're funding the main roads. It is within the framework of the national plan, and we have reported it to the Riksdag. This means that we cover the investment costs for Gothenburg, Borås, Lund, Hässleholm and, for that matter, for Ostlinken. That's where the Moderates have concerns when you want to put 30 billion less. There's a problem with you telling me where to take the money. If it's not on those parts of the main tracks – because it's been demented from moderate directions – maybe it's on rail in northern Sweden. Then maybe it's Norrbotniabanan one more time. That's why I'm asking you to let me know. I think it is serious when the Moderates have systematically disadvantaged railway efforts in northern Sweden. When it comes to how TRV should act towards Norrtåg, there are rules that prevent me as Minister of State from going in. If I were to do that, I would probably be reported to the KU or something else, and that's why I'm very careful to do it. What I choose to do is to give a clear assignment to Trafikverket where they will report the implementation work with Ertms and the costs of looking at different alternatives and returning to the government. I am well acquainted with Norrtåg's challenges. This applies both to the benefits – because when everyone talks badly about Ertms, it is still important to remember that it brings many benefits – and of course the implementation problems that exist. My great concern, if I am to be honest, is about implementation but above all about cost increases. We cannot have a system where the cost increases for the implementation of new technology are dragging off. It won't be acceptable. That is also one of the reasons why I have given the very clear assignment to Trafikverket. I look forward to the presentation of the analysis of data and certainly continued good discussions about Ertms in the future.
