i-030bef7acca75a31-13	Madam President, I would like Björn Söder and Markus Wiechel have asked me a number of questions about mouthguards. Among other things, they wonder what basis the government has for not deciding whether to introduce oral protection requirements, about international assessments of oral protection and how I intend to act in the future on this issue. In addition, Markus Wiechel has also asked questions about how I view public authorities' communication on oral protection, spread of infection and state support to the public for the purchase of oral or respiratory protection. Just as I have previously answered several parliamentary questions from the authors and their fellow party members and other members of Parliament, the introduction of a recommendation or a requirement for the use of masks is not a political question. The Public Health Agency is the expert authority responsible in Sweden for measures against different types of health threats, including the virus that causes the disease covid-19. The Authority's advice and recommendations are based on current knowledge. The Government has great confidence in the Authority's expertise and maintains a continuous dialogue with the Authority to obtain expert knowledge and advice. Since 7 January 2021, the Swedish Public Health Agency recommends that oral protection be used in public transport during peak traffic. In addition, there are now several examples of regional measures that extend the recommendations on oral protection. It is the individual's responsibility to ensure that the masks are carried with them. However, the Public Health Agency recommends public transport companies to provide mouth protection to those travellers who do not have their own oral protection. The Temporary Covid-19 Act provides for the possibility of introducing requirements for certain disease control measures. Such a regulation that can be issued under the law may, for example, require mouthguards in a particular place. The measures taken are based on knowledge and proven experience. Any recommendations or requirements for the use of oral protection in society should therefore be issued after assessment by the Public Health Authority and the regional disease control units. With regard to the WHO's view of oral protection and the introduction of such rules by other countries, I can only note that different assessments have been made – different assessments of the most effective measures to reduce the spread of infection within their own country. Having said that, I would like to emphasise that both the WHO and the ECDC stress that oral protection should be seen as a complement to the most effective and basic anti-infection measures: staying at home with the slightest symptoms of cold, washing your hands carefully and often, keeping distance from other people, socializing only with the nearest circle, working from home if possible and avoiding places where congestion can occur.
i-030bef7acca75a31-20	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for a somewhat late but still an answer to the interpellation. The Minister notes in his reply that the introduction of a recommendation or requirement for the use of masks is not a political issue. I can already say that the Minister is falling. It is very much a political issue, as political as when we discuss abortion law, nuclear power, order reviews or grades at school. It is also largely political. It is therefore very sad that the Minister and the Government are so uncertain that they consistently place responsibility on an authority that has so far been hardly right in relation to anything. It is claimed that it is a coincidence that Sweden would have sky-high death rates as we see it, that perhaps hundreds of thousands of Swedes suffer from long-term covid or that we currently have Europe's worst spread of infection. This is not a coincidence. In short, it is a matter of pure incompetence. If the Minister does not have an interest, capacity or desire to act when things go really badly, I do wonder why she is a minister. If the government doesn't act, I wonder why it's still in power. It is even more strange if it is that the Minister or the Government does not at all see how bad things are in Sweden today. In his reply, the Minister also says that the Swedish Public Health Agency is based on the current state of knowledge. In the prestigious medical journal The Lancet, a number of publications and a compilation were presented in the summer of 2020, which clearly demonstrates the importance of using mouth protection. The fact is that this is the compilation on which the European Disease Control Agency is based, among other things, when they say that there is clearly increased evidence that oral protection can be an extremely important part of combating the pandemic. And it is not just that, but there is a wide range of research publications that show this. I have one here from the well - known scientific journal PNAS. It's one of the latest, and it's from the end of April. It is claimed that this is a new and rather unknown virus. That's correct. It's relatively new. But it's not very unknown anymore. The knowledge situation is no longer so weak. What has been done during the year if one claims such a thing? Corona virus is not a new phenomenon. It's been there before. A year ago we knew enough about this particular coronavirus to be able to take a number of basic protective measures. For example, requirements for masks have still not been introduced. What has been done is to put in place some vague recommendations that people should use oral protection for certain hours on certain days of the week in public transport. This is not enough. It's not clear, and it's not accurate. Furthermore, as I said, there is an incredible amount of knowledge about the virus today compared to a year ago. Still, it looks like it does. They claim to follow prevailing science. I would say that, Madam President, is a lie. The Public Health Agency seems to repeatedly reject internationally recognised research results while never exhibiting the alleged science behind their own conclusions. You simply go against the expertise – the true expertise. I have repeatedly asked for an answer to which scientific support forms the basis for different assessments, so far unfortunately without results. I have repeatedly wished for answers to what the Minister for Social Affairs thinks points to the fact that the Public Health Agency is well-functioning, so far without results.
i-030bef7acca75a31-32	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his reply, which of course leaves some to be desired. The Minister of Social Affairs refers in the usual order to his expert authority, the same authority which, incidentally, declared a year ago that the coronavirus will not spread to Sweden. Throughout the pandemic, the Minister of Social Affairs has constantly referred to his authority rather than taking political responsibility in any way whatsoever. I am sorry to say, Madam President, that the entire Swedish system is designed to prevent anyone from being held accountable for what is happening. The ministers only refer to their authorities – and the authorities? Yes, when things go really bad, a Director-General may go. But from experience we know that these are often kicked uphill in the system and get a new top job at another authority with either retained or higher salary. The latest fad at MSB testifies to this again. In fact, despite the announcement made by Parliament three years ago, the government has not reintroduced any official responsibility. Madam President, I would like You don't have to be a rocket scientist – as long as you're not a minister in the Swedish government – to understand that the spread of an infection that spreads through coughs and sneezes is made more difficult between two people if they wear masks. There is a reason why health - care professionals and surgical surgeons have been wearing masks for decades. The Social Security Minister's so-called expert authority has claimed that covid-19 is a drip infection. This claim was made by the Authority even before it actually knew. Now we know that the infection spreads through the air, through aerosols. If the Government had had the slightest self-awareness and honour, she would have apologized to the Swedish people for the disastrous handling that the government has been behind, packed its moving boxes at Rosenbad and resigned. Instead, she calls those who question her handling fools, according to the article from Expressen that I hold up here and where it is referred to Aftonbladet. She calls the people who question her handling fools. A more de facto view or a more arrogant behaviour from someone who is responsible for the confirmation of over 12 500 people in our country having died in covid-19, I think, Madam President, you have to look for a long time. But it is symptomatic for this government in general and for the Social Democratic Party in particular: power above all, cost whatever it wants! And it has certainly cost — many lives. Madam President, I would like I asked the Minister for Social Affairs a number of questions because Sweden has gone its own way. The WHO's various recommendations have been ignored. I also referred to Sweden and war-torn countries such as Somalia, Sudan, Eritrea, Yemen, Syria and the dictatorship of Belarus, as well as some island nations in Micronesia being the only countries with no requirement for mouth protection. As usual, the Minister of Social Affairs chooses to refer to his expert authority, which claims that the scientific support for the use of oral protection in society to suppress the spread of covid-19 is overall weak. This is, of course, directly wrong and a clear indication that the Authority has totally ignored the WHO's clear recommendations of June 2020 and the very comprehensive science on the effects of mouth protection available as early as spring 2020. The misleading claim made by the Authority is therefore directly harmful to public health. Regarding the WHO's view of oral protection and the introduction of such rules by other countries, the Minister for Social Affairs says that she can only conclude that different assessments have been made. Yes, Madam President, let me say that Sweden has certainly made a different assessment, which has cost many thousands of lives unnecessarily.
i-030bef7acca75a31-39	Before giving the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs, I would like to remind Members to avoid using various forms of props in the speaker's chair, such as displaying articles and so on. Of course, it is possible to quote articles, but it is the spoken word that should apply in this House.
i-030bef7acca75a31-40	Madam President, I would like Of course Björn Söder knows about this, but it's important to take the chance – right? I will not be very tedious in my answers; I have answered 12 written questions and in two interpellation debates answered precisely the question of oral protection. I note that the Public Health Agency is an expert authority in the field of infectious diseases. I have confidence in the authority, but it has become clear that the Swedish Democrats, Markus Wiechel and Björn Söder and others do not share that confidence. When it comes to the issue of drip contamination, I will give an answer to that question, because I think it would be unfortunate if Members were to be able to spread a picture of covid-19 being an airborne infection. I quote from the Swedish Public Health Agency, which answers questions: Such a situation may be a stay with other people in confined spaces with insufficient ventilation. ..................................................... I understand that it is from this point of view that the honourable Member believes that a new assessment has been made, but that is not the case. The Public Health Agency believes that there were a lot of questions about this and that the clarification was made to facilitate their response. That doesn't mean you've changed your mind. I have no other answer to give to Members than those I have given in this reply, in twelve other answers to written questions and in two further interpellation debates. The issue is not political, although I realise that Members are doing everything to ensure that it is political. We use masks in Sweden in special situations. It is, of course, the case that care uses them because of the proximity you have to patients and because you are exposed to not only covid-19 virus but also other viruses. You always have protective equipment based on your needs. It is quite different from having mouth protection in all contexts regardless of congestion and no matter how high the risk is of not being able to keep a distance and thus spread the infection further.
i-030bef7acca75a31-46	Madam President, I would like Once again, I can only regret that the Minister does not see this as a political issue, because, as I said, I do not see what she is doing in her post if this is not a political issue – unless, when you see that there are obvious measures that need to be taken to protect society, you want to try to work for them. Just as Björn Söder mentioned earlier, the view of mouthguards has changed in Sweden. Only here in the Swedish Parliament did we see that there was no recommendation on oral protection even in the Chamber – not until it was time for the foreign policy debate. It would be too embarrassing, Madam President, if the international corps could see Swedish Members sitting here without a mask. A year later, the requirement for a mask was introduced. Why, then, should you wear a mask at all? Yes, it is primarily a barrier that prevents you from infecting others. It is for this reason that it is so important that many people have mouth protection. It's about catching micro-organisms in the breath. Mouth protectors can of course also protect the wearer, but it is not as effective on that point. It also depends on other circumstances, such as quality, how big the room is and so on. For this reason, everyone – even those who do not feel ill – should wear masks indoors, where others are staying and in public transport. Why? Yes, although the Public Health Authority has long argued that asymptomatic and presymptomatic people hardly exist, or are not contagious, we know that this is the case. In fact, these people can be the most dangerous when it comes to the spread of infection. A person is at most contagious the days before symptoms. We know this because of the research that exists. Keeping distance is not enough if you spend time indoors with an infected person. Furthermore, according to the research that exists, it is rather four meters, not two, that is required if there is no mouthguard. Of course, when everyone wears a mask, the effect is much better. Furthermore, in his reply, the Minister said that this should be seen as a complement to the most effective and basic anti-infectious measures, namely to stay at home with the slightest cold symptoms, wash hands carefully and often and keep distance from other people. And there's actually a point where the Public Health Agency has been clear during this pandemic, which I'm going to give it credit for. It's about people washing their hands and keeping good hand hygiene. It is fun that for once the authority is clear and careful about what applies. The problem, however, is a little ironic that there is nothing to show for sure that the virus is transmitted by touching surfaces. It is mainly the mucous membranes of the nose and airways that have many receptors for the virus, and that is the normal route of entry of the virus. It's not just this virus, it's most viruses, so it's nothing new. There is no doubt whatsoever that despite this and despite the recurrent errors of the Public Health Agency, the government has great confidence in the agency and their so-called experts, despite the lack of scientific support for action. They have been able to throw themselves with expressions such as that it would lull people into a false security and that people would move their faces extra much. None of this is true – there is no scientific evidence for it – but it is something that has been spread. They have gone against the collective expertise, and we see the result in the form of all the dead in Sweden.
i-030bef7acca75a31-53	Madam President, I would like I know that it is the President who decides in this House. However, I would like to point out, given that the Minister for Social Affairs was quick to cut, that in the past it has been allowed to present paper items, and the Minister for Social Affairs is very well aware of this. I would like to comment on this with drip contamination. Again, the Minister of Social Affairs referred to his expert authority. Allow me to quote the prestigious medical journal The Lancet, and excuse me for reading this out in English, there is consistent, strong evidence that SARS- CoV-2 spreads by airborne transmission. Even other routes can contribute, we believe that the airborne route is similar to be dominant. ..................................................... I would really like to know where the Minister for Social Affairs says about the use of masks. Let us make this clear to the Swedish people once and for all. It seems the Minister of Social Affairs is swinging here and there. I think most with me are completely confused by the various statements made by the Minister for Social Affairs and by the various references she has made. This is perhaps a sign that we have a minister who has not taken responsibility but has only referred to his expert authority in time and without time. At a press conference on 29 July 2020, the Minister of Social Affairs said: We do not see in this situation, with the widespread decline in the spread of infection, that it would be the time to demand mouth protection in public environments. She went on to say: we do not have it, if I may use the expression, tradition or culture. In TV4 on 17 November 2020, the Minister of Social Affairs, on account of the WHO's view that Sweden should introduce requirements for oral protection, said that until then the Authority had not said that we should generally have oral protection. Her comment on the WHO's call was as follows: I do not really interpret their comment as saying that Sweden should but that Sweden should consider, just as we do all the time. In response to a written question as late as 2 December 2020, the Minister of Social Affairs announced that the introduction of recommendations on the use of oral protection is not a political issue and that the Public Health Agency is the expert authority responsible in Sweden for action against different types of health threats, including the virus that causes the disease covid-19. She also announced that any recommendations on oral protection use in society should therefore be issued after evaluation by the Public Health Authority and the regional disease control units. But in SVT's News on 24 February this year, she all of a sudden claimed the opposite, Madam President. In the feature, the programme leader said: Several parties, as we heard, want to have stricter mouth protection requirements, but there was no such news today either. What about these demands from the opposition? Then the Minister for Social Affairs said: Now I hear two parties saying that they want stricter demands for mouth protection. I am saying what I, the Public Health Authority and many others have said since this pandemic began, namely that oral protection should be used and that this should be treated as the protective equipment it is, which can actually be used and which is of course used in healthcare and care and in many other contexts and professions where you cannot keep a distance – also in public transport. We also see a number of regions which have expanded their use when they have not progressed with crowding measures and they have assessed that this can have an effect. The Minister for Social Affairs therefore gives the impression that she and the authority have already argued at the start of the pandemic that oral protection should be used by the public. The first part of her statement shows this. In the second part, she comes to the conclusion that it is already used in healthcare and care, among other things. It is not possible to interpret the statement in any other way. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs a question. I have asked written questions on this several times and I have received answers that have left some other things to be desired. My question is: Has the Minister stated in 2020, before the press conference on 18 December, that oral protection should be used by the public? If so, when did this happen? I think a lot of people are asking that question.
i-030bef7acca75a31-63	Madam President, I would like If Members say that the so-called 'expert authority' is going to say that again, I will not comment on it any further. This is an expert authority. They have a responsibility in Sweden for disease protection measures that can not least be attributed to a pandemic, in this case, but there may also be other disease protection measures in different contexts. I heard that Björn Söder had Googled and found some different quotes, not least detached ones. I do not think there are so many people who wonder what the position of the signatory or the government is on mouth protection. After all, this is not a political issue. We have not made any political decision in the government, and we do not intend to do so. The Public Health Agency as an expert authority, with 600 employees of which 160 are researchers, are experts and have this responsibility. Then I think it is appropriate not to quote half the sentences. I do not know if Mr Söder usually speaks in half sentences, but I do not. What was read out at the end– I do not remember it verbatim – that this should be used by the public in the contexts where it is requested is a reasoning that goes hand in hand. It should be used where it is decreed. In health care, it is self-evident. There may be other contexts. There may be activities where you always or in some contexts have mouth protection. This is the reason why oral protection is used in some regions when they have a large spread of infection and when they think they are not going any further. There are, of course, reasons why we have masks in this House. I want to say this, because Markus Wiechel himself seems to have forgotten what the reason is. It is not a matter of being ashamed of anyone, but it is because Region Stockholm is the region that issues the regulatory framework that the Swedish Parliament should follow because the Riksdag is here. Since it had been decided on mouth protection in public environments, this also applies to the Swedish parliament. More difficult than that is not this issue.
i-030bef7acca75a31-67	Madam President, I would like We have been able to see, not least through a thorough review published in the newspaper Expressen, where the main experts are in relation to corona debaters. It was not they who belonged to the circle of the minister's expert authority. Using mouth masks and face masks is a simple, cheap and effective measure that should be seen as a preventive measure – not as a final measure. This is something that, among other things, the World Health Organisation and many research institutions see as one of four fundamental measures to effectively suppress the curve. Madam President, I would like Pushing back the curve is not the same as pushing back the curve. Pushing back the curve is about doing everything you can to get as few people as possible infected. These are travel restrictions, strict shutdown, testing and the use of face masks. I cannot say that the government has done much on any of these points. The Minister often tells us that others have made different assessments. That is true – 95% of the world's population today lives in countries where the government has made a completely different assessment. There are so many organisations – for example WHO, ECDC and CDC, and I could continue – who are working on this and who have made a completely different assessment from the Swedish Government's expert authority. It is about the world's largest and foremost organisations. Doesn't that ring any bells at the government? Is it not surprising that at the same time it turns out that Sweden has the worst spread of infection right now and is one of the countries that has been hit by absolutely the hardest? If masks could save one life, would the minister consider it an alternative?
i-030bef7acca75a31-73	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Social Affairs claims it's a loose quote. It was not loose quotes; I read the context and the feature. But this is symptomatic, because throughout this pandemic there has been a change than there. It is clear that the government has not had a strategy at all – as with so much else there has been a lack of a strategy here. It has all been about saving one's own skin and getting away from political responsibility by constantly referring to its so-called expert authority. It should of course be an expert authority, but it has been shown during the pandemic that the agency is not up to date. This has had no consequences whatsoever on the part of the government. There is a Director-General who said that the corona infection would not affect Sweden or come here. Throughout the journey, it has been shown that wrong assessments have been made on an ongoing basis. You don't even live up to your own recommendations. We have seen both the Director General and the state epidemiologist living in society and not at all following the recommendations given to the Swedish people, and this has had no consequences whatsoever on the part of the government. It is as I said before: The Swedish system is designed for everyone to escape their responsibilities. The Government only refers to its expert authority; it is government control if she interferes too much. Nor do we have any official responsibilities, which means that the responsible officials go free or are rewarded with new top jobs – perhaps within the Government Office. I also note, Madam President, that the Minister for Social Affairs did not respond to my disguising of the incorrect allegations made by the expert authorities about drip contamination. I referred to the prestigious medical journal The Lancet, which shows that it is an airborne infection with small aerosols that is spreading, and of course it makes a big difference there.
i-030bef7acca75a31-79	Madam President, I would like I note that the Swedish Democrats do not agree with the Swedish Public Health Agency. It has been made quite clear in this context and in many other contexts. I do not share the view that wrong judgements have been continuously made, which is perhaps no surprise. Let me conclude by saying that part of this interpellation debate revolves around how measures have not been taken and how Sweden has come out so badly, that we are still in a pandemic, although the development at the moment looks very much better and the pressure on health care is decreasing. After all, we are among those countries that have a very low mortality rate, thankfully, probably because we started to vaccinate at the right end. We started with sick and old, those with the greatest risk of sickness and death. Let me also remind you that the only possible outcome from the first year of the pandemic is over-mortality. I think it would be appropriate for us all to describe the reality as it looks, namely that Sweden is in a very far-off place from a European perspective. It is not the case that Sweden gets the worst out, regardless of mouth protection and other forms of action. I assume that the research will be very interested in seeing what might lead to what. We have seen how countries have taken similar measures with different results or similar measures with the same result, which means that it is not completely readable. Björn Söder may excuse me for not commenting on a few sentences in a research article. It's written a lot, and I don't have the opportunity to make an overview of that particular article. But I can see that drip infection is the main basis for how covid-19 is spread. That does not mean, as I described, that there is no such context. There may be small areas where congestion occurs, where ventilation is small and where drops can actually spread in the air. This does not mean that the authority has changed its mind, but it is a good answer to many citizens who are in contact and ask how the infection can spread.
i-030bef7acca75a31-84	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the growing group of patients with complications and long-term illness following a covid-19 infection receive adequate care, treatment and rehabilitation. It is of great importance to increase knowledge of the long-term symptoms that may result from a covid-19 infection and which treatment and rehabilitation measures should be offered to these patients. On December 1, SBU presented a systematic overview of patients who have long-term symptoms of covid-19. SBU noted that there is some knowledge, but that more is needed. Therefore, on 4 March this year, the government gave SBU a new assignment to continuously evaluate and disseminate knowledge about the scientific support regarding the treatment and rehabilitation of patients with long-term effects of covid-19 disease. The assignment includes the continuous transfer of knowledge to the National Board of Health and Welfare. In addition, within the framework of the Research and Innovation Bill, the Government has allocated SEK 100 million annually for research in viruses and pandemics. In addition, the Government has allocated SEK 50 million specifically for research on long-term symptoms as a result of covid-19. In September last year, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with developing a process model for rehabilitation interventions for patients with long-term complications after covid-19. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned on 4 February this year to develop support for healthcare in patients with long-term symptoms as a result of a covid-19 infection. A first interim report will be made on 31 May and a final report on 31 October this year, 2021. The mission is an important step in supporting healthcare in how to manage patient flows and to create the conditions for monitoring and treatment. Developing national guidelines is currently too early, but we learn more about how these patients should be treated and rehabilitated. The support that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare is now developing aims to support health care during a period where the development of knowledge is very rapid, so it is not appropriate at present to develop long-term national guidelines. There are therefore a number of ongoing efforts in this area and the government is closely monitoring the state of knowledge and developments in this area.
i-030bef7acca75a31-90	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, but I find it remarkable that it is coming so late. This is a debate that I asked for on 10 February. We can see in the press that there are many who wonder about these issues and who would have liked this debate much earlier. I think that Lena Hallengren should go to her boss and hear if the workload in this particular area is not too high and that she needs to be relieved in her work. The Covid-19 pandemic has turned our society upside down in many ways. Our entire economy and our whole way of living and working has changed during the pandemic. Covid-19 does not behave like other influences; it has its own symptom and disease course. It has also proved to have the quality of making many become long - term ill. There are now people in the press who testify that they feel healthy for a period and that they then again fall ill with various symptoms. The care is obviously trying to be up-to-date, but when a new disease panorama occurs, there are, as Lena Hallengren also described, no guidelines, and it is not obvious how to treat it. This causes a lot of frustration both for patients and for care. Research results are now also published showing that those affected by covid-19 who have recovered despite this have a lower long-term survival than a control group, so it may not only be a question of symptoms but is directly dangerous, as it is often with long-term diseases in general. According to one American study, people affected by covid-19 are 60 percent more likely to die within six months than those who have not suffered from covid-19. Then, of course, there are many sources of error. This is a research study and not an absolute truth, but that is often what it looks like. Regardless of this study, all those affected by covid-19 and then long-term illness deserve a follow-up and respect for the fact that we do not yet fully know how this virus works. We need more research. That is why I am pleased that, as Lena Hallengren says, they are now investing in research in this area. We need more follow-up on what happens after the disease. We need to learn more to treat and also to rehabilitate. Only through professional follow-up can we learn more and develop good treatment and rehabilitation methods. We need, as with the pandemic as a whole, a strategy for how we deal with the major societal problems that are becoming. This could be the rheumatism of the future or osteoarthritis-- we really don't know that. Given that Minister Hallengren has produced some positive research and follow-up efforts, I would like to call for a strategy for how we are now dealing with the emergency situation, although, as I began by saying, I understand that the Minister's workload is exceptional. I would like the work of the Government Office to be redistributed, but that is not my job. Now I have lifted some more questions and want some more answers. I'll get back to you.
i-030bef7acca75a31-99	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that there is no need to redistribute tasks. But the beginning of my chemotherapy made it difficult to travel between Kalmar and Stockholm ten hours in a car and also get a lot of interpellation debates that would be planned with a number of weeks in advance. Now they're scheduled. However, it is not a question of the workload being too high, but of the fact that it has been difficult to plan. Now it won't be like that. That is why I have ten interpellations that I will answer today, six next week and seven weeks later, so Lotta Olsson does not have to worry about that. Unfortunately, however, the issue is in no way overplayed, we have to say. It is a fact that covid-19 affects both men and women, but women are actually a little over-represented in being affected by the long-term symptoms. The question is, of course, how we can ensure that we follow the state of knowledge, but also that the current knowledge not only reaches out to some but also to the entire primary care, because that is many times where you go in the first place. The question of how specialised care should be organised has, of course, received some attention. Is that supposed to be multidisciplinary? Should you wear it in several places in the country? Here each region looks at what they have for specialist skills and how to organize themselves. I made a digital visit to Norrköping, Östergötland, to see how they work. It is they and Karolinska in Stockholm that have been the first out. I do not think they will be alone for much longer, but how to organize this is really a matter for the care itself. You can choose to do things in a slightly different way, but I feel it is important for research to have the conditions and opportunities to absorb all the knowledge that unfortunately is gradually emerging, because the longer the pandemic goes on, the more people with long-term symptoms we discover unfortunately. As I began by saying, it is important that primary care is on the competence so that we do not just focus on specialist care. It is of course important that the correct diagnosis is made and that it is not too quickly, perhaps out of goodwill, says long-term covid and misses that there is something quite different that requires other care or treatment. I would like to stress how important it is for knowledge to be disseminated and that we are not too quick to say that this is exactly what it looks like but that we can keep the state of knowledge up to date and as up-to-date as possible. As I said in the answer, we get a first interim report on 31 May, and it will be exciting to see how far you have come then. So the mission is not finally reported then, but we need to follow this. Although the final report will come this autumn, I do not see that this mission will end, but we will certainly have to think about what the future is like.
i-030bef7acca75a31-107	Madam President, I would like One should not follow the evening press and believe that it is the absolute truth, but some reportage shows that people feel that they have not received the response they expected and that they have not been understood. Just as Lena Hallengren describes, there are certainly large gaps in knowledge in the operations, and we have just learned how to effectively vaccinate large population groups. This is something completely new, and I have every respect for it. When I follow the vaccination in my home country, I am impressed by how super efficient you are. However, a strategy needs to be initiated on the basis of what has been collected and will be presented on 31 May. It is about a strategy for how primary care should think and how to follow up on this so that we do not risk getting many who stand with Försäkringskassan and are not heard and still do not have the energy to go to work. They describe it as one day everything works while the next day you have like a saucepan on your head and nothing works and you're weak. In ten years' time, these will certainly appear to be easy things, but we need to keep ahead of them all the time. During a pandemic it will be easy here and now that applies, and a lot has been acute, for example how we ensure that intensive care is provided with and how we take care of the long queues that have been formed. But we must be able to see the next step so that we do not get new groups that are knocked out of both ordinary life and the labour market. I would like to see a strategy drawn up after 31 May on how to look at long-term covid and for recommendations to be made. You can have a database collection of how this has worked. It can be different in different age groups and depending on what you have for background health and so on. We need to learn so that we do not stand here with dilemmas that could have been resolved earlier with proper rehabilitation. It may take early action to get back on the track. Sweden has had relatively many sick at the same time as other countries, and therefore it is perhaps difficult to find knowledge abroad. The health situation in the USA, for example, is not the same as in Sweden. Generally speaking, we have a better health situation, and we should be happy about that. But apart from that, I believe that we can learn a lot about health and what can be done to rehabilitate that we do not know today. I think there will be a lot of knowledge. I look forward to the review at the end of May and what we can do strategically so that we are not in a boom with a lot of sick people who are not getting help from the Social Insurance Agency. We need to look forward and make sure everyone's well.
i-030bef7acca75a31-114	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson is absolutely right that we must do everything we can to ensure that these symptoms are identified. However, this does not mean that it is always the right diagnosis that provides the right treatment and rehabilitation – I am not saying this to Lotta Olsson, but to those who listen to the debate and wonder what is happening now. Therefore, it is so important that you make the right assessment from the beginning so that you do not miss anything else. It is not uncommon for you to diagnose yourself, not least during a pandemic when you feel that you have the type of symptoms that is mentioned. It is important that we do not call it long-term covid as that it is a diagnosis with certain symptoms, because you can have long-term symptoms that can look very different. This can make it difficult for both yourself and the care to understand that this is all about it. In mid-April, the National Board of Health and Welfare published a knowledge support on care for patients with postcovid, and it was for both decision-makers and health care staff. It therefore addresses both those who are to allocate resources and decide on the content of care and those who meet patients at different levels of healthcare, precisely to emphasise that this applies to both primary care and specialist care. Let me also say that as early as December last year, the SBU came back with a report from their first mission to review the state of knowledge. We really have not waited, but we realised quite early that this could be a problem, of course for the individual but also for society. Here we need to be quick. In the very beginning there was no possibility to encode symptoms and possible diagnosis, but now this is being done and can provide more knowledge. I will also say something about national guidelines, because it often comes back. I am well aware of Lotta Olsson's knowledge and background in health care, but for many others it may sound like national guidelines mean doing things in a certain way. However, national guidelines support those who are to decide on how resources are to be allocated within the healthcare sector. It's not primarily about doing exactly this or that when you meet someone with certain symptoms. There is knowledge support, and within the framework of the Swedish Municipalities and Regions you look at how to spread this knowledge and make sure that it does not stay in Kalmar, Örebro or Stockholm. It is about getting the latest knowledge out, which is very important. The guidelines also provide recommendations on what action can be taken in case of a particular condition and how to diagnose or solve problems. The national guidelines are therefore quite comprehensive and will most likely be included in the future. But so far we are quite early in the process, and we need both more meat on our legs and more knowledge. But the knowledge we have should be kept up-to-date and must reach out throughout the healthcare system so that you quickly discover the situation. Postcovid may be something you have for a long time with mild symptoms but that resolves. But there are also those who are still suffering from symptoms that have not passed. So what you can expect is hard to know. Then it is important to have a dialogue, because it is not least mentally and mentally incredibly difficult to carry something that you do not really know the outcome of.
i-030bef7acca75a31-124	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for genuine answers. It feels like the Minister has a genuine interest that we can look at this long-term and strategic. I think there's a fear that you won't be understood because it's something new and you yourself don't know if you, just like after a common cold, should be healthy, alert and happy and go to work as soon as the fever and cough are gone. Then I think we all feel more or less that the whole of society has been subdued. There is no time when the symptoms become as strong as when people feel socially isolated. Besides, maybe you're afraid you'll be infected after a long time. There may be many different factors in this. I think it's great that you don't regulate details but look wider at it. The sad thing about these occasions is that it is only in ten years' time that we will know exactly what we should have done now to be smart and good. We should have an open attitude and not overlook or ignore what people are talking about, because my experience is that when you talk about a problem, there is a problem. There are very few who want to take advantage of the opportunity to get extra attention or what it might be. If you feel that you are not able to do so, we must have an approach where we are aware of it. In the same way that everyone should test themselves, vaccinate themselves, keep their distance and, as was mentioned in the previous debate, take on mouth protection, we should perhaps have awareness campaigns on how to handle it if you think you have received long-term covid and how to work with it as an individual.
i-030bef7acca75a31-130	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for an interesting and important debate! I hope that there are many who listen to it and who have confidence in the sense that we are discussing this issue here and that there is a great deal of consensus. This is something we see, and we very much want to do everything we can to ensure that the knowledge that care needs to have is there. As the pandemic continues, unfortunately, we gain more knowledge not only in Sweden but globally. King's College in London is one of the examples that I have taken note of, but there are of course many more. Here we need to work together and work together to ensure that, as with other diseases, we learn from each other. Again, although we feel that the pandemic has been going on for an eternity, it is still relatively new knowledge. Like Lotta Olsson says, it is perhaps in ten years' time or at least a long time that you will know better what you should have done. I think the important thing is to have the courage to go to health care. I am generally concerned that people take their own responsibility and refrain from seeking care, regardless of what it is about, and think that they should not burden health care. It is clear that they should make the call to 1177 or their health care centre and ensure that the care is allowed to make that assessment. Then the care should have the best possible support to pilot people who really prove to have postcovid symptoms. If they don't, it's important that they get other help, because it should be said that we often have an incredible focus on covid symptoms, acute or long-term. But there are of course other conditions that these could be a sign of instead, so it is important to feel that contact with the care leads to getting the care, support and treatment required. I am in no way ruling out the future of national guidelines, but it is a little too early now that there is a need for a comprehensive knowledge base and knowledge of how to act before issuing guidelines. Ideally, they should not be too short-term, but you should probably feel that you have landed quite well in a knowledge base before issuing guidelines.
i-030bef7acca75a31-136	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me not why the government and I have gone out with a national information campaign to the whole population about what applies in terms of self-tests and now vaccination against covid-19 and why the government's work on the national campaign is delayed. In addition, Johan Hultberg has asked me three questions: if I follow his view that the government has broken its part of the agreement with SKR on the information campaign on vaccination against covid-19, I intend to do so to ensure that a national information campaign on vaccination against covid-19 is in place as soon as possible and if I have taken any initiatives to make available information on vaccination to those with language and disabilities. In December, R Egeringen decided on a special information assignment to the Swedish Public Health Agency, MSB, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. Based on the mission, the authorities are already carrying out national information campaigns on vaccination against covid-19. Based on the mission, the national information efforts on vaccination against covid-19 are underway and adapted to enable the entire population to take part of them. The government and the regions stick to their parts in the agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on the implementation of vaccination against covid-19. The Council, regions and responsible authorities are in close dialogue with each other about our respective information efforts. The authorities work within the framework of the mission to ensure that information about vaccination against covid-19 is collected, accessible and continuously updated. . Protecting you and others is the main message in the national information work for vaccination against covid-19, which was developed on the basis of the government mission. The authorities have produced information in several languages, in different formats, and the information is available through many different channels to reach several different groups. The information itself is also targeted, in accordance with the Government's mandate. The longer we get in the vaccination process, the more extensive the information efforts to the general public will be. The Swedish people have a generally high vaccination will but also need good information. It's about the entire population. According to the Government mandate, public authorities shall pay particular attention to the need for targeted information actions for groups with lower vaccination coverage and groups that may find it difficult to absorb information, for example due to language difficulties or disabilities. The responsible national authorities shall, within the framework of their mandate, cooperate with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and the County Administrative Boards. The aim is, among other things, to ensure that similar information on vaccination is provided throughout the country but also that information is adapted to local conditions when necessary. The regions provide information to the individual about how he or she will be called for vaccination, when vaccination becomes relevant and where the vaccination will take place. Information for it is already available at 1177.se, to the extent that the information is available. The same applies to testing. The Public Health Agency assists the regions with knowledge base and also has national information films on testing and information on its website.
i-030bef7acca75a31-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This, too, is an interpellation that was written several months ago, as my colleague, Lotta Olsson, pointed out earlier. Of course, a lot has happened since it was written, but I am nevertheless glad that we can have this interpellation debate. As we noted earlier, for just over a year we have experienced something that no one could ever imagine. I think we were all caught on the bed when the consequences of covid-19 became more and more obvious. Many people got sick, many so sick that they died as a result of covid-19, which had then turned into a pandemic. There were press conferences several times a day, and all the news was filled with reports of the pandemic. Sweden has never had so many people who would give their views on the pandemic and what and how we would do to deal with it. Anders Tegnell became covid-19 with the Swedish people. The government transferred responsibility for large parts of the management of stopping the spread of infection, the testing of citizens and, after that, vaccination to all regions, and this is where we see the great differences. A number of authorities were also tasked with coordinating information on the pandemic. Everyone had their own theories and guidelines. What has been the key word throughout this pandemic is the word inconsistency. What was communicated in the morning had changed before the evening ended. What was communicated through one authority's website was not consistent with the other authority's website. The Government knows that I own and run a health centre, so I have been sitting in the middle of this information flow and I have not been able to give advice to all the people who have asked questions, as it is very difficult to keep up with the changes that have constantly taken place, every day. For example, Region Stockholm today says that it changes the interval between vaccination dose 1 and 2 to six weeks. This is something that my home region, Region Västerbotten, did already six seven weeks ago. There is no logic and no coherence in the information or in the management of the pandemic. My thought will be: Does the Government really think that communication about the pandemic, covid-19, has been coordinated and equal?
i-030bef7acca75a31-151	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That's an answer I've been waiting for a while. I turned in the interpellation just over three months ago. I am sorry to say that this is still the case. I would, of course, have liked us now, three months after I submitted the interpellation, to have come to the point where we should see a comprehensive state information campaign aimed at specific groups. These are groups that we know are not vaccinating to a very large extent and which are particularly important to reach out with information to. But we don't see it. The delay in the answer may speak for the problem of the slowness of the state in obtaining information. On 8 December, the government, the state, signed an agreement with the Swedish municipalities and regions on how vaccination work would be carried out forward, on what the state would do and what the regions would do. At that time, the state undertook, among other things, to be responsible for developing, in close consultation with the regions, national communication on vaccination against covid-19 and to adapt these efforts so that people with disabilities, for example, or who do not have Swedish as their native language, can also take in the information. The State also undertook to do so in order to achieve the highest possible level of vaccination coverage in the population. Shortly after that agreement, on 17 December, the government, among other things, gave the Public Health Authority a government mission. It made clear that the authority had a great responsibility for providing information to the population as a whole, but especially to groups that do not have Swedish as their mother tongue and other groups that we know do not vaccinate to the same extent as the population as a whole. But then very little happened, Madam President, far too little. At the end of January, therefore, we Moderates put forward a proposal for a committee initiative in which we had a very simple and concrete demand: that a broad information campaign on vaccination be launched immediately. The Minister and the Director-General of the Public Health Agency came to the committee and informed that in mid-February or late February they would start stepping up efforts. That is worrying; the answers from the Minister and from the Director-General have been quite a lot on the subject of that; we do not want to go out with information too early. We want the vaccinations to get started and want to step up the information. I think it has been a mistake, Madam President. It has created space for skepticism and for misinformation to take root. I think it would have been important to go out early and widely with information to the population so that even the more vulnerable groups would have been ready to receive the vaccine when that offer came. Unfortunately, our initiative was voted down. Madam President, I would like I still do not think that the government and the state have taken on their responsibilities to carry out a broad information campaign and, in particular, not to carry out targeted actions against those groups that are particularly difficult to reach. Now we see clearly in the follow-ups that the regions and the Public Health Agency are making there are major concerns about getting up the coverage rate in some groups when it comes to vaccination. This risks leading to increased risks of mutations and cluster outbreaks. In fact, it risks leading to the unnecessary death of additional people. So the question is, three months after I woke up the interpellation, still very important. I hope that the Minister can tell us today that the state will soon assume its responsibility for fulfilling the agreement.
i-030bef7acca75a31-159	Madam President, I would like I think Johan Hultberg takes in a lot. I don't share the picture that nothing has happened. I also do not share the view that it is national authorities that will ensure that we reach out in different areas around the country. Facilitating and supporting the regions when it comes to information and being able to provide it in different languages is an important part. It is also important to ensure that we can reach out widely when it comes to various forms of information. For example, the video Now vaccination against covid-19 has been shown on the bulletin board. Another video, All over 18 will be offered vaccination, has been shown on TV4, on store TV on Ica and Hemköp, on paintings outdoors, on subways, on Expressen TV and DN TV, on social media and more. It's reaching out wide. Some films have also been developed to be shown even more in social media. But I would like to emphasise that if you go out to everyone and you say that you can now vaccinate yourself, you can have problems that a couple of regions have experienced only in the last few days. 1177 cannot cope with less time spent than the number of individuals in the target group. Johan Hultberg refers to my visit to the Social Committee and to the dialogue that we had by Johan Carlson and the Director General. What we and the authority mean is just that; if you go out very broad, very early people can wonder and feel, Wait, when do I get to vaccinate? For not all regions are synchronised at all times – as we have seen – so that exactly the same age groups are vaccinated in each region. It looks a little different, even if it's not diametrically different. But in an information effort, it is important to know exactly when it is my turn to vaccinate me in my region. The Authority was also clear that consideration needs to be given to the existence of a vaccine schepticism. There is simply a well-founded assumption that socio-economics plays a role, that different backgrounds can play a role, that there are vulnerable areas and so on, and that it should be taken into account. Then there were several, not least from the interpellants' party, who acted and were very critical. They thought that one should not have to think about socio-economics; now we should make sure that those who actually work and do the right thing and want to vaccinate themselves and call and want a time should get it first. We know that all the time, from day one, we really have to bear in mind that not everyone will call as quickly, that not everyone feels as convinced and that there is a vaccine-scepticism in different groups and in different areas. We need to take this seriously. And that's where every municipality, region and county administrative board needs to make use of the knowledge they have. They know what it looks like in, for example, my home county, Kalmar, and in which areas you need to go in especially, which associations you can collaborate with and how to do it the smartest. I don't think the comparison with elections is that bad. There you may sometimes work with the church, sometimes with the association life to reach out with information. We know that it is not just about language, that it is not just about having a folder or a material that you can make yourself understood through. It's a lot about trust. You may need to talk on several occasions. Maybe you need to help. It may be necessary to consider whether the vaccination centre itself, the opportunity or the possibility of vaccination are a little too far away. Should we move it closer to the area for a number of weeks to ensure that we can vaccinate? I know that the regions have many such plans. It is important to put them into effect and not to vaccinate everyone who wants and then sit with a rather tough challenge ahead of him. I can tell you about my meeting with the three major regions last week to discuss this very subject. The knowledge of how to reach out in every capillary of our society does not sit on state authorities. But they can provide support in the form of information.
i-030bef7acca75a31-167	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I don't know if I got a real answer to my question. But I might be able to get that in the next post. What is positive about the pandemic is that we have learned to wash our hands, to spread our hands, to use mouthguards and to keep our distance. This has meant that we have not seen any flu, that we have not had winter shrimp disease, and that we have not had a major spread of RS virus. The speed of developing vaccines has been impressive. Just before Christmas 2020 we were able to start vaccinating. That is very impressive, I have to say, and we have continued at exploding speed ever since. But this is where I see that the government has failed in its national vaccination campaign. Information to everyone would have been the same, and the regions would have had the same regulatory framework to deal with. Instead of a structured vaccination of the population, we have seen 21 different regional approaches, which have led to a vaccination tourism that is causing it for everyone who is going to administer the vaccination of the population. People call every health centre and book up at times, and they go where they get the fastest time. This means that at the end of the day all other health care centres where the persons have booked themselves stand with leftover doses. It will then be a pressure to call in new people, because you do not throw a single dose of vaccine unnecessarily. That's where I want to go. We should have had a national strategy in which all regions had received the same information and data on how to handle the testing of people, how to handle the vaccination of the population and how to reach out with information to – as the Government mentioned in its previous speech – groups that are difficult to reach. Now, for example, county administrative boards have been tasked with looking at how to reach groups that usually do not go to health care, such as undocumented people, our asylum seekers and many of our immigrants who have a culture of skepticism about vaccines at large. But if the government had been clear already at the beginning of December, when vaccination against covid-19 was started, we would not have had the situation that we have today. That is why I ask the question once again: why has the government acted so slowly? We started vaccination six months ago. Why did we not have a national vaccination campaign ready to be published already then? It's coming now, six months after we start vaccinating.
i-030bef7acca75a31-173	Madam President, I would like Indeed, we have learned how to use hand spirit, mouthguards, and so forth. Madam President, I would like I've never said that the government will tell you when to vaccinate everyone. Of course, the regions must do so. It is also clear, I think, from the agreement that exists between SKR and the state that the regions are responsible for carrying out the vaccination work itself. Only the Västra Götaland region can offer me vaccination, because that's where I live. That's what they've done. But the state has committed itself in this agreement to an important task, namely to carry out a broad information campaign to the Swedish people and to carry out specific targeted actions against groups that are difficult to reach: people who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue and people who belong to groups that less than the population at large allow themselves to be vaccinated. I really think, Madam President, that the state has not taken its responsibility. I think it is rather startling if the government and the Government are not self-critical and think that they have failed. The Swedish Public Health Agency produced a report in April that showed that we in the group 80 years and older have now reached a vaccination coverage rate of over 90 per cent. That's great. However, only half of those born in North Africa have been vaccinated, and only 44% of those born in the rest of Africa. Here we have a huge difference. The pattern goes again in other age groups. In the group 65 - 79 years old, 41 per cent of those born in Sweden had been vaccinated at the end of April, but only 17 and 16 per cent respectively of those born in North Africa or in the rest of Africa. Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that society has not been able to reach out to these groups sufficiently well. Of course, the regions and municipalities must make targeted efforts, and that is what we are doing. Here in Stockholm, for example, there are telephone lines in ten languages. Mobile vaccination units have been started in the socially vulnerable areas. There are special information campaigns with people who are out there spreading information and meeting citizens, and they have managed to achieve a good level of coverage. But the state has not done what the state has undertaken to do. The focus of the public health authority's efforts is mainly on the videos mentioned by the Minister in his previous speech. I went into YouTube yesterday, where they are uploaded, to see what they got. That, Madam President, is not an uplifting reading. For example, I looked at the clip How are vaccines tested against covid-19? in Somali. It had received 182 views. The clip Why are we inoculating against covid-19? in Somali had received 326 views. Then why do I mention the group of Somalis? Because that group belongs to those who have been particularly hard hit by the pandemic and who, to a very small extent, allow themselves to be vaccinated. Today, a report from the Stockholm Region showed that the Somali group had had a ten times higher mortality rate than the population at large. Of course, this is not explained by the fact that they were born in Somalia, but by other underlying reasons. But an important explanation is, of course, that many do not master the Swedish language and have not been able to take in the information. Then the government must do more than produce some videos that have received a few hundred views.
i-030bef7acca75a31-180	Madam President, I would like I apologise to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for forgetting her questions last time. First I heard her speech. Then came Johan Hultberg, and it was his questions that got stuck in the thought. I didn't mean to, but that could happen when you have two interpellers to debate with. I'll try to answer Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's questions. Why wasn't there a national campaign at Christmas? Yes, mainly for the reason I described earlier: if from the beginning, when you have very little vaccine, you go out and tell everyone that it is important to vaccinate yourself, the risk is that people then want to vaccinate and contact the health services to ask when it is their turn. It was not desirable at the very beginning. At that time we knew exactly which groups would be able to vaccinate themselves, namely those on special accommodations, older people in home care and staff, so the information was clearly directed there. There are also people who have a different origin and speak a different native language, so it was of course necessary to produce information and material in different languages. Then it is a question of changing this up and being sure that it can be synchronised that the regions are ready to answer questions. Anyone who is hesitant and sceptical doesn't just want to see a commercial, get material and watch advertising on the bus, Hemköp, TV4, Expressen TV or the subway – it's not just Youtube films, as Johan Hultberg described it as – but of course wants to be able to get answers to his questions. This has allowed it to escalate during the spring. I certainly do not share the picture – perhaps that's not how Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm meant – that the campaigns are now starting after six months, but it has been ongoing information. Nor is it that we basically have some kind of vaccine-scepticism. In large parts of the country, it's an ironing time. The Stockholm Region has now been mentioned here a couple of times. Unfortunately, it has not yet received the same demand and really the same coverage in all groups. All the so-called phases have now been released, which means that everyone can now vaccinate. But that still doesn't mean everyone does. I would like to come back to something that may still be a bit of a misunderstanding. The state – the Public Health Agency – can of course produce information material in Somali. But how will it be distributed? Where is it to be set up? Who's gonna get that material and who's gonna give it to him? That is where the regions are so important. That is the shared responsibility. It is a matter of deciding – here we have an area where we know that there are many people who come from countries other than the Nordic and neighbouring European countries. We know that the vaccination rate unfortunately falls as the distance from Sweden from the country of origin increases. Then it is clear that we need to make use of the knowledge on which regions and municipalities are located. It not only says that we in a municipality have a high or low level of coverage. It must be much more precise than that. We're talking about residential areas. In Stockholm, that's one thing. But where both Johan Hultberg, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and I live, it is clear that those areas are everywhere. Those who live closest and are responsible in their region or municipality know that. That is why we really need to do this. It is excellent if Stockholm's work with mobile teams and so on is expanded and bearing fruit. That's how you need to work. It doesn't help with just the information itself, but you should have it as a support. Not everyone should have to produce their own film, material or folder to put in the hands of people. How, then, do you really get someone who can well understand in writing that you should vaccinate yourself to really do so? It is about what the three regions of Stockholm, Skåne and Västra Götaland described when we had a meeting last week. It's about having a dialogue with the community to build trust. Sometimes it is with the church, sometimes it is with a sports club, and sometimes it is with the Red Cross and so on. It can't just be done by government authorities in a simple way. The challenge is not to vaccinate a lot of people who want to vaccinate and book the time as soon as they get the offer, but what unfortunately can not remain but still does.
i-030bef7acca75a31-190	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I did not mean to be rude and insinuate that the Government did not listen to my speech. That was not my intention at all. My point in the whole interpellation is that it has now been so long since we started vaccinating that all regions have created their own routines. Earlier in the interpellation debate with my colleague, Lotta Olsson, the Government raised the importance of primary care and that it does its work, and that it does a fantastic job of vaccinating. But we have also seen that all primary health care units handle the information in different ways based on different conditions and different age categories. I have no doubt at all that there is a vaccination schepticism. I feel that everyone is very positive about being vaccinated. I've heard those who say, "Let's go out and get some bubbly, 'cause let's celebrate that we've got our first dose. Well, that's a good thing. I agree with what my colleague Johan Hultberg said in his previous speech. We have managed very well to vaccinate our elderly people who live in special accommodations and have prevented death and severe illness. What I am thinking about is that in the worst vaccination management the government has now commissioned all the authorities to cooperate with SKR and the county boards to ensure that similar information about vaccination is given throughout the country. Again, I think it's a slowness that leads to inconsistency.
i-030bef7acca75a31-194	Madam President, I would like The agreement between the State and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions is very clear that it is a shared responsibility. Everyone understands that responsibility in this matter must be shared. I believe that the state has an important role under the agreement to carry out a wide-ranging information effort and to provide targeted support and information to specific groups. Then, of course, the regions have the responsibility to do a little more on the ground, if you put it that way, to provide information and organise their activities in such a way that they reach as many people as possible as quickly as possible. This helps us as a country to achieve as high a degree of vaccination as possible and as quickly as possible can slow down the infection that has taken the lives of too many Swedes. When we look at these groups we see that the mortality rate is very much higher. It is therefore worrying that the Public Health Authority and the state have failed so in providing these targeted efforts. Let's just say. I have reviewed the compilation that the Public Health Agency has made of what efforts have been made to disseminate information. Until February, the information campaign from the Swedish Public Health Agency was just that there was an information campaign on SVT's bulletin board. Perhaps this is not the way to reach out to those groups who are reluctant to be vaccinated. Only in March did it start to distribute videos in languages other than Swedish. Later came the YouTube clips, which unfortunately only had a few hundred views. The 60 million that the government has allocated to information work has not really delivered. The responsibility rests heavily on the Government to ensure that the State fulfills its responsibilities according to the agreement that exists between SKR and the State.
i-030bef7acca75a31-200	Madam President, I would like I think it was a good description that Johan Hultberg gave at least halfway. In March, it was possible to start vaccinating considerably more than just those in special housing and home care. Something that has been recurring and which I myself think is a credible description is that when you talk about vaccinating, you have to be able to answer questions. They say: It is important to vaccinate, although you have to wait a few months. The timing is not insignificant when we talk about these groups. The authority has translated information into 18, 19 languages, or something like that. Johan Hultberg himself used the expression. I guess it's trapped. That's a little what it's all about. It is not enough to produce films and materials. In the end, we come to a situation where it is a matter of: how should we ensure that the factual information not only ends up in the right mailboxes but that someone is talking about it? It should be done in such a way that people say: Maybe I should still vaccinate. If you basically think that you are a little worried, vaccination may not be self-evident, but vice versa. Then it is not enough that you get a newsletter, that you happen to be looking at the right channel or that it is bus advertising. We need to work much more consciously and thought through than that. This is done in many areas of health care. You know you need to work with child vaccination and other things. It's long-term work. That is why it is included in the agreement. We have always known that it is a challenge not to leave white spots and not just to vaccinate what is simple. It is, of course, a matter of ensuring that as many people as possible get the best possible protection as soon as possible. It is hard work that will be required in the future. Of course, the authorities should contribute in every way they can. But they will not be on the ground or reach out to the capillaries. If there is any need for further support, we do not hesitate in that. However, the three metropolitan regions I mentioned did not have any specific requests for further action when we met.
i-030bef7acca75a31-208	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to return to Parliament with additional legislative proposals or other measures that could provide the desired precision for sport, and especially equestrian sport, more quickly than the government's previous proposals. She has also asked me if when I assess that the government may have worked out more accurate rules for sport that could mean a fresh start for many activities that can be carried out infectiously. Sofia Westergren has asked me what measures I intend to take so that equestrian sports and other sports that can keep a high level of infection protection can get started with their competition activities again. Let me begin by saying that we all agree on the importance of children's and young people's sports and on the importance of resuming sporting activities, including competitive activities, as soon as appropriate at all levels. As I said in the interpellation debate on 5 February, the dialogue on these issues between the Public Health Agency and the Swedish Sports Federation has been particularly important to ensure. When it comes to children's and young people's sports, it is primarily the public health authority's assessments and their regulations and general advice that are governing. The Swedish Public Health Agency has gradually opened up to sportsmen, and it is now possible to rob on 1 June with smaller cups or competitions for children and young people both indoors and outdoors. The same will apply to small-scale competitive sports for adults outdoors. It also opens up for smaller-scale camp activities. The Temporary Covid-19 Act gives us much better opportunities for more accurate measures, and from 1 June new rules and levels apply to public gatherings and public events. It is a long-awaited and welcome step in the re-launch of sport's competitive activities and other social life. Here, too, the Public Health Agency has an important role in deciding on a more detailed regulation based on the current state of infection and the state of care.
i-030bef7acca75a31-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The new law, the temporary covid-19 law, is intended to enable accurate measures to be taken – those that do not unnecessarily hinder activities that can be carried out safely from a disease-protection point of view. The Minister said in a previous interpellation debate in February – three months ago – that the Pandemic Act would now give the government better opportunities for a more accurate regulatory framework. The question is, where did this go? Why hasn't the government taken advantage of this opportunity? Furthermore, the Minister said that the government then, in February, looked at being able to distinguish between outdoor and indoor activities and that account could be taken of the size of both the facility and the area where an activity is carried out. Yet until last week we could see no changes whatsoever. So, in these months, we have not seen any changes since we stood here last time, even though the Minister said that you would look at guidelines for different types of events and different sports. We would have had to see them in place earlier in order to create more opportunities for people to practice their sport. However, I am pleased that the Minister has now come to the conclusion that there was something left on the to-do list. I am pleased that the Minister and the Government are now deciding to try to make use of this legislation, but I wonder what has taken such time to look at. I also wonder why the law is not used more accurately. I know that the equestrian sport has now and then always had a horse in the combination as well as wrestling both now and then has been about being quite close to their opponent. There is and has been a difference between how infectious you can practice your sport. In my opinion, for example, there is a big difference between being outdoors or indoors, and there is a big difference between having a horse length between yourself and someone else or the closest living being standing right next to you. Madam President, I would like I am also doing shooting, but you do not have to do it at all to see that the measures that the Minister promised in February to look at, but which now came in a proposal last week, are actually not particularly accurate. They're not spot-proof at all. You make a difference between indoors and outdoors, which is wise. But why not make it more accurate by also distinguishing between different sports? It kind of doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. I therefore wonder if the Minister can answer all those who are listening now: how is it that there will be the same rules for a sport where you are very close to each other and a sport where you automatically have contamination-proof distance between the participants?
i-030bef7acca75a31-220	Frau President! Thank you to Minister Lind for her reply and for sharing our view on the importance of children's and young people's sports and on the importance of resuming sports activities, including competition activities, as soon as appropriate, at all levels. In our recent debate on the subject, the Minister said that the horse is a large animal, which needs to have its daily training despite the pandemic. I appreciate the Minister's clear-sightedness. Now there has been some opening since I wrote the interpellation, and the current rules apply until 1 June. I hope we are in the final phase of the pandemic, and I think we should look back to see what went well or less well – all to be a little better prepared if this happens again. The guidelines have been twitchy for the horse industry as well as for the whole of Sweden. There have been rapid throws, and the boundaries have been moved. The focus has been on young people and professionals and that they have been able to continue to compete. Young people are allowed to compete in the local area and professionals all over the country. It would have been better to have confidence in their respective sports federations' ability to operate with high levels of infection protection. I am grateful that the riding schools in Sweden have been well managed. They have been able to continue to operate, albeit on a smaller scale and with measures to strengthen disease protection. According to studies, a youth who rides an hour in the stables is another three hours — a total of four hours. Riding schools are a form of youth farm. Unfortunately, that part has been lost during the pandemic, and we hope that it will soon come back. The conclusion is that it has worked well with the riding school but less well for the horse racing activities. Those who have been most affected are adult amateur riders and those who live north of Gävle. There are no competitions because there are fewer horses, so those who live there and want to compete have not been able to do so. They feel forgotten. For a sport where you travel for yourself, it would have been good to look at a different solution than just to compete in the neighborhood for young riders. In practice, half of Sweden has been banned from competition. The only option is to travel abroad, i.e. to make considerably longer trips. One solution could be that those who do not have competitions can get an exemption to an optional day of competition. The whole country will live, and half the country will not be forgotten. I myself come from Västra Götaland, and there it works to compete close because it is horse tight. This is also the case in Skåne; there are plenty of horses, and there are competitions. Horse competitions can be conducted with high infection protection. We're used to having a horse's length distance. The distance must be provided for safety, and it well meets the requirement of distance for disease protection. Add to this that regardless of the pandemic or not you travel with your own vehicle to competition. You don't use common dressing rooms. The uninsulated halls that we call indoors are more to be viewed as outdoor because a large volume of air is constantly circulating. When the pandemic broke out, a special competition regulation was in place quickly. Publics were no longer allowed. The cafeteria closed. Only one helper was allowed per combination. The facilities where competition is conducted are large, and distances can be kept and kept. I think it is reckless not to distinguish between different sports, and I believe that it will damage credibility if the authorities do not tact in what people see as obvious. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Lind why there have not been differences between sports.
i-030bef7acca75a31-231	Madam President, I would like I would like to start again by thanking Sofia Westergren and Alexandra Anstrell for once again raising the issue of the conditions for equestrian sport and also for sport in general during the pandemic. We can fully agree that sport has had a very tough time during the pandemic, both in terms of the possibility of receiving audiences and in terms of competition and training activities. I think we all felt very happy when, at last, on the advice of the Public Health Authority, the government was able to decide the other week to launch the new and more accurate rules for public gatherings and events on 1 June. I also think we should remember that when we had the debate in February, we were still waiting for information from the Public Health Agency that even the slightly older children, the teenagers, could get back to their training activities. This, too, was a long awaited message when it came. We should be proud that children's and young people's opportunities for training during the pandemic have been prioritised, both by the government and by the Swedish Public Health Agency. When I talk to my colleagues in other European countries, I hear that in very many cases the opportunity for children and young people to do their sport has been considerably less. Sport means a great deal to public health, to children's meaningful leisure time and also to society at large if you look at all aspects of sport – from training activities for the kids to competition activities for the betting junior or for that matter for the raven team in football. Let me return to the questions of the interpellants on the conditions for competition activities for equestrian sports. Once again, I would like to reiterate what I clarified several times during our last debate: as regards guidelines and recommendations for competition and training activities, this is not something that the government decides. It is the Swedish Public Health Agency that issues them – after, as I know, a very close dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation. As I also said last time we discussed this, it has been important for me to ensure that this dialogue works. Questions about details there, then, need to be answered by the authority. Then I know that the authority has said – these questions come from many different sports – that it has been very difficult for them to tailor their guidelines and advice to their respective sports. Instead, they have tried to find general rules. With regard to the government's pandemic law and the more accurate rules, I am still a little saddened by Alexandra Anstrell's tone on this issue. Alexandra Anstrell knows very well that in order for us to be able to launch them – and I said this in the February debate as well – it was necessary for the contamination situation to allow it, and we have also had a close dialogue with the Public Health Agency about when it could happen. What happened in the spring was that the third wave swept over the country with very high spread of infection and very heavy strain on intensive care. I then heard no shouts from the Moderates that it was then time to launch the new and more accurate rules. We have followed developments very closely, discussed with the Public Health Agency and been prepared to take this decision as soon as possible. I know that many people are pleased that this will now finally be in place on 1 June.
i-030bef7acca75a31-240	Madam President, I would like The spread of covid-19 remains high, and the situation in health care is in some places very strained. Then it is obvious that you should open up activities with caution. You need to do it wisely and accurately. Nobody wants this disease spread. What I'm trying to tell the Minister is that there are differences. There is every reason to review the assessments and make a distinction between certain arrangements where there are conditions for having an infectious activity. We're told to work from home, and you're supposed to be alone. You drive to a horse event, you go alone. It's a bit the same thing, but it's not the same as being 450 people on Ica Maxi. There's a difference, and there's a difference that's incomprehensible to a lot of people out there. That is what I am trying to tell the Minister: people do not understand this, because the rules you set up are incomprehensible. Of course, it might take a little more work, but isn't it important that every single kid gets started to train and compete if it is possible to make infection-proof? Even those who live in Norrland, which Sofia Westergren was in, or in other places where there will be few or no competitions at all are important. In equestrian sports it is very easy to keep your distance. You sit on a horse and have at least one horse length distance to the next rider. That you can have competitions does not mean that there must be a lot of people there. It doesn't have to be a crowd. It is possible to arrange very descaled, and of course without an audience. The government decided that high school students would return to regular education as of April. I will then try to describe two different events. One is the class where over 20 students come back after having had distance education and sitting in their classroom where the teaching takes place almost as usual. They're sitting on their benches. They'll try to keep their distance, but I can tell you that it actually works a little bit like that. They sit in their benches and then go out in the hallway to change classrooms. Maybe they'll walk past the B-class that's having a break at the same time and they'll also change classrooms. They may also meet some from the lower class or the upper class. They move around a lot of people all the time. As event number two we can take a horse race or a horse training. We'll take a dressage contest with 50 starts in a whole day. They are thus scattered from, for example, 9 to 17 over a whole day with a maximum of one groom as accompanying. Maybe it's a maximum of 15 officials in total. You are outdoors and have at least one horse length distance. I think there's a difference. Most of the people I've talked to agree: It's strange that there should be so very strange rules. It doesn't make any sense. The government's various decisions are incomprehensible, and it is, above all, completely incomprehensible that the government has not taken the opportunity to use the Pandemic Act more accurately in the past. Hence my question: does the Minister intend to return to Parliament with further legislative proposals or other measures that could provide the desired precision for sport more quickly, especially equestrian sport, than the government's previous proposals? I'm thinking that if the government hasn't found any more accurate proposals before, you might be hampered by something. Then we want to help to do this as well as possible. Or is it just that the Minister and the government cannot cope with that little extra that is required to work out more accurate rules?
i-030bef7acca75a31-250	Madam President, I would like They must raise their voices to be heard! So sings Magnus Uggla in the song Girls from 1987. According to terminology, equestrian sport is not the starting point for what is meant by sports during the pandemic. A terminology has been used that is more accurate on team sports such as football and hockey. Words such as this are rarely used in equestrian sports. Football is also the largest sport in Sweden with 600 000 active and is estimated to account for one third of all active in any sport. One million have a horse interest. About 500 000 people are estimated to be active in horse sports, of which 90 percent are girls or women. Football is important, and it's great that so many are doing it. But it's a team sport where you get close to each other in practice. Everything in the horse sport is done at a horse's length distance. I am frustrated that rules are based on a sport that is male-dominated and that what is female-dominated then gets to hang on. This happens at a time when the government calls itself feminist. The horse sport is great and should not get away in the shadow of football and other team sports. Horse sports can be practiced with high infection protection. I hope that in the future you can make a difference and become more accurate. Sitting alone at a café table at a mall, I think, has been too far-reaching a restriction. Such things do not strengthen confidence in authorities. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Public Health Agency cannot talk to 70 different sports associations during the current pandemic, but I see it as reckless not to make a distinction between sports carried out without physical contact and those carried out close or with physical contact. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Lind whether she would like to work for differentiated measures and greater trust in associations in the further work. Starting from team sports is not fair to orientation, running, sailing, diving, motocross, boat race, swimming, shooting – as my colleague Anstrell mentioned – skis, dog sports and so on. In this speech I have focused on horses because it is a great sport with special conditions. In addition, an animal law focus is required on the horse, which needs to be trained to feel good.
i-030bef7acca75a31-259	Madam President, I would like We are at a time when very many activities in our society have had to be limited. The fact that children's and young people's sports have been able to continue in Sweden to a very large extent has been important, and I think that has been the right priority. The fact that elite activities in which people are active have been able to continue has also been important. The fact that we have now been able to decide on a more accurate regulatory framework for audiences has been long awaited – it is good and will be important when we are now going to work on the gradual reopening plan for both audiences and other businesses that are limited. It is also very good that the Swedish Public Health Agency has now decided on updated advice and recommendations that means that more competition activities for children and young people, both indoors and outdoors, can get started to a greater extent. This also applies to outdoor competitions for adults. But I also think it has been the right priority that children and young people have gone ahead. It is of course extremely important, not least for public health, when there is now the possibility that restrictions on sport may also be relaxed on the basis of the state of infection and the degree of vaccination. In sport in Sweden there is a huge flora of very many different activities. The introduction of specific legislation or regulations for individual sports has been identified by the Public Health Authority as difficult. On the other hand, the Swedish Sports Federation has a great responsibility in the dialogue with the Swedish Public Health Agency to ensure that the guidelines that exist can also be applied. I know that all sports associations in Sweden have done a very important and good job in transferring the advice and recommendations that are available to concrete advice for the business. I know that equestrian sport is one of the sports that have actually had pretty good conditions to keep going. Outdoor training has been possible, and children and young people have been able to compete for some time. The conditions will only improve as vaccination takes off. I have a question for Member of Parliament Alexandra Anstrell who seems to think that I should come to Parliament with some kind of legislative regulation of competition or sports activities. I think that would be very bad to do. It is the Public Health Authority that issues advice, recommendations and regulations, and I do not think that the Riksdag or the Government should take over that work. Again, the Pandemic Act regulates gatherings and public events – audience – and not exactly how competition and training activities should be done. Is that what Alexandra Anstrell thinks it should do?
i-030bef7acca75a31-267	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am really in favour of reducing the spread of infection. I think we all do. But I think it is important that you make the efforts right and that they become what you have planned. If the Swedish Public Health Agency, as Amanda Lind says, finds it difficult to make differentiated decisions about different sports, the Swedish Public Health Agency may need more support and help. Just because something is difficult doesn't mean you shouldn't work with it. I think that's a bad excuse to use from the Minister Amanda Lind. My second question to the Minister was: when does the Minister estimate that the government may have worked out more accurate rules for sport that could mean a fresh start for many activities that can be carried out infectiously? So there are activities that can already be carried out, yesterday, last week and last year, infectiously. That's exactly what we're after. I think Amanda Lind is ralling and trying to push this over to that everything should be general, but it doesn't have to be. If you are looking to help as many people as possible to hold on to their sports and have good mental health, you can also do more. We have learned that there will be some regulatory changes as of 1 June, but they are still very general. My question is: when will the work on proposals that would be more understandable and that would really be more specific than the general ones that the Minister has told us about both here and at the press conference last week? What's stopping you, Minister?
i-030bef7acca75a31-273	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the priority given to children and young people and for the fact that we have done much better for the riding school and overall for the horse activities, because we have been able to keep training and other things going. I can draw a parallel with Italy, for example, where horse owners have been excluded from caring for their horses and the stable owners have thus simply had to take care of the horses. I am grateful that we have not had that development in Sweden. A great deal has been done, therefore, and we could do it even better and still have a high level of disease protection and good public health. I think it is a pity that these general rules are adapted for team sports that cannot maintain such a high level of infection protection. It is a contribution to the Minister and to the Government that they must be able to differentiate different sports and regulations for them. It would have been better to have confidence in the respective sports federations' ability to operate with a high level of infection protection. I also believe that it would have been a matter of credibility for the people when it comes to understanding that you can make a difference.
i-GqXJ5WDo2hUEtN1t4ikGoW	Thank you, Minister, for the debate.
i-030bef7acca75a31-278	Madam President, I would like I thank Members of Parliament for an interesting debate. It is basically very nice to know that sports policy issues and the conditions of the sports movement raise both interest and commitment in the Riksdag. I would also like to thank the Swedish sports movement very much for the responsibility that has been taken during the pandemic. Swedish sport has had a tough time, but there have also been opportunities, especially for children and young people, during the pandemic. Training activities have been able to continue to a large extent, not least when compared with other countries across Europe. The competition could start earlier this year. Now a further step will be taken on 1 June when adult competitions can also get started again to a certain extent. It's very important. I would like to make it clear once again here in the speaker's chair, as I have done in the past, that the government does not take decisions on recommendations and advice addressed to sport. It is the Swedish Public Health Agency that does this in close dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation. The sports movement consists of team sports and individual sports with very different conditions. From the government and from me it is a priority that we now ensure that the sports movement and sports activities for children and young people but also for all ages can restart. That is why I am pleased that I was able to present further support to the sports movement yesterday. It is needed to plug the holes that have arisen with reduced revenues and to plan for a restart at a rate that the pandemic allows. Of course, during the pandemic there have been situations where there has been uncertainty about the rules that apply, but I would nevertheless say that the sports movement has done its utmost to convey to the capillaries what it is that applies and how we have worked to keep sport going as far as possible even during this pandemic.
i-030bef7acca75a31-283	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me if I a vser that, in order to improve the working environment for all who work with ambulance care in our country, review the guidelines so that all ambulances should be equipped with a heart-lung compression machine. I would like to start by saying that the health and safety situation and the working environment of employees in health and social care is an important issue for the government. R egions and municipalities are the heads of health care and care in Sweden and are therefore also responsible for the employees' work environment. Regions and municipalities have a responsibility to systematically investigate and address occupational health and safety risks in order to prevent ill health and accidents at work and to promote a good working environment. It is the National Board of Health and Welfare that is responsible for issuing regulations on ambulance care. The regulations regulate responsibilities in ambulance care and contain provisions on, among other things, staff skills and ambulance equipment. The regulation states that ambulances must be equipped with the equipment necessary for prehospital emergency care to be provided both inside and outside the ambulance. With the equipment, healthcare professionals should be able to create and maintain free airways, provide assisted breathing, perform advanced CPR, stop external bleeding and move patients safely. The Authority is responsible for the content of its regulations and updates them if necessary. As I mentioned earlier, the regions as principals are responsible for ambulance care and are also responsible for the employees' working environment. The Government supports the regions in the development of ambulance care by adding 85 million SEK in 2021 to the regions for the purpose. Funds are allocated to the regions through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions to strengthen ambulance care. The initiative focuses on, among other things, the competence development of ambulance staff and the adaptation of ambulance care to the ongoing development towards close care. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare will, on behalf of the Government, map prehospital care and, based on the survey, make suggestions on how prehospital care can be developed, streamlined and strengthened in an effective and cost-effective way. The description of prehospital care, including suggestions on how prehospital care can be developed and strengthened, should be reported by 1 October 2022. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of ambulance care and, if necessary, return to priority issues.
i-030bef7acca75a31-290	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This is an interpellation that I submitted in January 2021, but for various reasons the answer has been delayed. It does not really matter, however, given that the issue is still as topical. 112! What happened? Every day about 10,000 people call our national emergency number with more or less acute conditions. It is of great importance that we have a civil protection service that we can trust and that has the equipment needed to save lives. In ambulance care, there are different situations in the regions – hence my interpellation. One of Sweden's regions was notified to the Swedish Work Environment Authority a couple of years ago. The safety officer at an ambulance station had reported his employer due to shortcomings in the working environment. An employee had performed CPR on a severely ill patient during an emergency call. This was done standing in the ambulance cab, and there was a huge risk to the employee's life and health. A brake, turn or other traffic can cause a worker standing up in the ambulance to fall and suffer severe injuries. That is exactly what happened on this occasion, and the employee is still not fully restored. When the vehicle is to be driven at high speed, it is not safe to drive, and it is a major stress factor for the person standing up and performing CPR. If a person uses the seatbelt in the vehicle, the risk of accidents is much lower, and we can leave that issue without developing it further. For almost 20 years there have been mechanical heart-lung compression machines, which means that the person who performs care in an ambulance can be strapped. Transport can therefore be carried out in a much safer way. What is strange is that even though it has been so many years, according to a RUT report, there are seven regions in our country that have chosen not to install mechanical heart-lung compression machines in all ambulances. Unfortunately, my county is one of the counties where there is only one ambulance in each city equipped with mechanical heart-lung compression machine. The probability is great that the ambulance equipped with the mechanical machine is out on another mission because the number of ambulances is limited in each region. How does the Government intend to improve the working environment so that it is equal throughout the country? I believe that everyone should feel safe in their work environment and be able to work safely.
i-030bef7acca75a31-298	Madam President, I would like The issue is the working environment for staff working in ambulances in different regions. The regions have a primary responsibility for health care, as I also said in my reply. The National Board of Health and Welfare issues regulations on how ambulance care should look and is responsible for both the content and for any updates. The government can, of course, initiate a review of the regulations within a government commission, but not decide what the regulations should look like. That's something the agency does. In my reply, I mentioned the effort being made in ambulance care and the fact that much of the prehospital care is being done in ambulances today. Ambulances are certainly not a means of transport. That is something I do not need to tell Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm but perhaps to other people who still believe that ambulances are an advanced form of transport. Care is provided from the moment the ambulance arrives, and it is often absolutely vital that the staff have the opportunity to do the job they are best at. On 4 March this year, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with mapping prehospital care. Based on the survey, proposals will be made on how healthcare can be developed, streamlined and strengthened. It is important to strengthen care in such a way that it is effective and also cost-effective. There is always an interest in the resources allocated to health care providing the greatest possible level of care. The aim is for the survey to look at the organisation, resources, staffing, collaboration and patient safety. On this issue, it is not least a matter of staff safety, but of course patient safety is also considered. The point is that we should get a national picture of what the situation is in prehospital care. Then it is intended that the National Board of Health and Welfare, based on the survey, will make suggestions on what can be done differently. Now it is a larger mission than the question that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm asks, but the question may fall within the mission. With all due respect for the seriousness of the situation, 2017 is still a number of years ago, and there is no description of how that situation has been handled. But it is clear that the regulations should provide support for how to work. If there are questions to be asked, not in individual cases but in individual regions, it is important to address them there. Perhaps the regions have never had such a clear mission and have been as addressed as during this pandemic. There is no one who has missed that the regions are the principals of Swedish health care, and this also applies to prehospital care.
i-030bef7acca75a31-304	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is the regions that are responsible for prehospital care. However, the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on the use of work equipment follow, among other things, that work equipment should be used so that adequate protection against ill health and accidents exists. Then there is additional legislation with authorisation to issue regulations on traffic, transport and communications. It emerges that the government and the authority that the government decides may issue regulations on traffic rules. Madam President, I would like The Traffic Regulation states that if there are safety belts in a vehicle, everyone should wear safety belts. The Swedish Transport Agency's regulations on the use of safety belts state that there can be exceptions for the use of safety belts in the rear seat if this in any way hinders the exercise of the profession. These two regulations speak against each other, and it is the government that is responsible for ensuring in regulatory letters to the relevant authority that the regulations do not conflict with each other and have the opposite effect. That is exactly what they do when it comes to the use of a seat belt in the back seat of an ambulance during the emergency. My second question to the Government is therefore whether the Government intends to review the regulations and ensure that they do not contradict each other so that one authority requires a seat belt while another does not require a seat belt. This is, of course, about the government's letter of regulation to the respective authorities.
i-030bef7acca75a31-309	Madam President, I would like I would like to describe the fact that what is the actual issue in the interpellation is whether we should not talk about the existence of cardiac and pulmonary rescue automation in all ambulances. Then I just want to say that when it comes to how to equip an ambulance, you are not as much at the detailed level of the regulations because the development is happening quite quickly, which means that if you put in too much detail you need to make constant changes and revisions. I can't answer if this is something that falls under it. However, the development of medical devices is very rapid, which means that you have to go to the appropriate level in the regulations to ensure that they can be kept up to date at all times. Then it is clear that ambulances can also have different purposes. Iva ambulances need another equipment. So it is not an ambulance, but in this case you also need to ensure that you have the equipment that is used at any given time, but not in a way that makes it too quickly out of date. I do not intend to initiate any review of these regulations, but I hear what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says. That they would crash that way, that it would be something that makes you choose not to have certain equipment and so on, so I haven't got that described. How I get back to you, I don't know. I guess we'll have to come back in some appropriate form for that. But it is clear that the ambulance has its regulations. That is why the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has supplementary regulations – because they have a purpose for health care. It is not just a matter of restraint or not, but they have special regulations for how it should be in the ambulance. With regard to the very specific question that I had not received in advance, I cannot actually answer what it really looks like or whether Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's statement is correct or not.
i-030bef7acca75a31-315	Madam President, I would like If there are seat belts in a vehicle, they shall be used to reduce the risk of accidents. The fact that there are seven regions that today do not have a mechanical heart and lung machine in each ambulance is contrary to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's demands for a safe and safe working environment. The Government says in its reply that the National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible for issuing regulations on ambulance care, but they are not responsible for ensuring that the work environment is safe by requiring the carer in the back seat to wear a seat belt. The regions are the head of ambulance care, but they do not decide whether the work environment should be safe by requiring the carer in the back seat to wear a seat belt. There are many principals involved, and that makes it a little tricky. Who has the primary responsibility for an ambulance nurse sitting in the back of an ambulance cabin caring for a severely ill patient having a safe and safe working environment and not having to stand up in the ambulance and do CPR in order to carry out their work? Who has the primary responsibility?
i-030bef7acca75a31-319	Madam President, I would like I choose to end by quoting part of my answer to the interpellation. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible for issuing regulations on ambulance care... The regulation states that ambulances must be equipped with the equipment necessary for prehospital emergency care to be provided both inside and outside the ambulance. With the equipment, healthcare professionals should be able to create and maintain free airways, provide assisted breathing, perform advanced CPR, stop external bleeding and move patients safely. The authority is responsible for the content of its regulations and updates them if necessary. ..................................................... As I said, it's the Authority that updates. You don't go to the detail level that you need to make too frequent updates. However, the question of whether the Swedish Transport Administration's regulations and belt requirements would be opposed to this, whether it is in itself a problem, or whether it is in how you work to comply with the regulations that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has as such, I cannot answer. Let's get back to each other about it, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and I.
i-030bef7acca75a31-322	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me why I am not sure that pandemic legislation is being used to some extent, given that the Public Health Agency has not clearly identified restaurants as the source of the outbreaks of infection seen in different places in the country. She has also asked me whether I intend to take any steps to clarify to the country's bar and restaurant owners what legislation regulates the restrictions on them and to ensure that specific guidelines and information are clarified and applied to the whole country's bars and restaurants. Disease control measures at serving points are regulated by the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites, which, since its entry into force on 1 July 2020, is used to reduce the risk of infection spread at serving points. Since 1 March 2021, the Public Health Authority has been authorised to provide additional regulations to limit the opening hours of serving points. One condition is that such regulations are necessary to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency's regulations and general advice on temporary disease control measures at serving points, serving points should be closed between 8.30 p.m. and 5 p.m. However, they may be open to the sale of food and drink that is not consumed on the spot. The regulations may be limited to a specific geographical area, such as a county or a municipality, and may thus lead to more accurate disease protection measures that can be adapted to the risk of infection spreading in different parts of the country. This is an important effort to ensure that action is not taken unnecessarily or affects certain activities unduly. As there is already a specific regulatory framework for serving places, these measures are not regulated by the Code on specific restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19 (covid-19 law). The restrictions on the serving of alcohol at certain times which were in force between 20 November 202 0 and 11 April 2021 were based on the assessment that serving places are particularly hazardous from the point of view of disease protection when for each other unknown persons gather and spend a longer time in each other's physical vicinity on a limited area, increasing the risk of the virus causing covid-19 being passed on to different parts of society and creating a new chain of infection. The Swedish Public Health Authority has found that there is international support for the risk of transmission of infectious diseases, which is due, inter alia, to the fact that increased alcohol consumption contributes to reduced compliance with given recommendations. In order not to worsen the situation, it is important that physical contacts between people continue to be restricted. This also applies at serving points. It is the Public Health Authority that supervises and provides supervisory guidance at national level in the field of alcohol and has the task of developing support for stakeholders. This also applies during the covid-19 pandemic. The Public Health Authority has developed a supervisory guidance for relevant stakeholders, including municipalities and catering centres, on the state of the regulatory framework and how it should be applied. I assume that the Public Health Agency carries out the necessary activities to disseminate the guidance so that the rules that apply are clear and clear to the country's bar and restaurant owners and those who supervise.
i-030bef7acca75a31-329	Madam President, I would like The Covid-19 pandemic has turned a lot of things upside down in our society. We now live under legislation that is an exception to ordinary legislation, subject to the Swedish Parliament. This means that the government has increased power but also increased responsibility for the limitations that occur in society being as well thought out and planned as it is possible during a pandemic. We have been able, through the hearings held in the Constitutional Committee, to follow how the government planned strategy and implementation. There are major shortcomings here. There has not been a general plan as a basis to follow, but most decisions are made based on what is recommended for the day. The Public Health Agency is responsible for the spread of infection based on existing legislation on the protection of infection, of course, but the government is responsible for the management of the whole country. It is remarkable, then, that no type of strategy for the closure of restaurants and bars has been set up on the basis of different scenarios for the development of the spread of infection. I do not question the need for restrictions, but what they look like and with what foresight they are facing play a major role. Madam President, I would like It is neither reasonable nor necessary to change the opening hours of an entire industry from one day to the next, an industry that is already bleeding due to reduced customer revenues and restrictions on the size of the business. When you do not get an advance ruling on what the next step of the restrictions will be, you in the industry may have to terminate your staff at short notice without any specific remuneration. It's a form of trade ban. Moreover, for many employees, it has meant that from one day to the next they have lost their income. Madam President, I would like My main concern is not whether restrictions are needed, but how they are applied. I have spoken to both restaurant owners and employees who have said that they lost jobs because the guidelines suddenly changed. It is not the public health authority's officials who have strategic responsibility for having a restaurant business left after the pandemic, but it is the government. Only the government is in a position to govern this. Moreover, I am deeply disappointed that one does not understand its strategic responsibility. We have placed great trust in the government, which has free hands and should be able to act quickly and effectively. Then you have to lay down a strategy. When I talk to restaurant owners, they say it will have major consequences if one day they are full by 22 o'clock and the next day suddenly have to close at 20 o'clock. You may have ordered food or drink or hired staff that you cannot use. In addition, it now means losing employees, because people think it is far too insecure jobs. I have great respect for changing circumstances, but you have to have a basic plan. That's how everything works in society.
i-030bef7acca75a31-338	Madam President, I would like Welcome back, Minister! It will be a hard day today when you collect all the interpellations. I'll see you in a minute. A few weeks ago, I debated an interpellation on this subject with Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. It was about what the government is doing to counteract bankruptcies in the restaurant business. This is an interpellation that Lotta Olsson has written. It would not have been necessary if restaurants had been thought of and used as a tool to limit infection and not seen as a reason for the spread of infection. When I read the Minister for Social Affairs' answer today, I realized that there is reason to ask her the same questions I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs. In the answer, the Minister says that it is assessed that serving places are particularly hazardous from the point of view of disease protection when for each other unknown persons gather and spend a longer time in physical proximity on a limited area. Since the start of the coronapndemine, restaurants have been regulated. You can sit a maximum of four people at a table. The restaurants are required to have a distance between the tables. You can't stand in a bar. People don't move in restaurants the way they did before, especially in bars. The vast majority of restaurant owners handle compliance with the rules very well. I would like to say that today it is difficult to find a bar where someone is breaking the rules without being told. In particular, there are not as many people out there today as before. This has caused enormous damage to the entire restaurant industry. It was bad when you couldn't complete the second sitting until 10:00 p.m., and it got even worse when you now have to close for orders at 8:00 p.m. and lock at 8:30 p.m. I wonder – this is a question that I also asked Ibrahim Baylan – what kind of assessment the Public Health Authority makes and what it is based on when it is said that it would be more dangerous to remain in a restaurant after 20.30 than that the party moves home to one of the guests. Then you gather in apartments. Those parties would not have occurred if they had been able to remain in the regulated and controlled environment of the restaurant. What is behind it, and whose assessment is it? The Minister for Economic Affairs could not answer what kind of assessment the Public Health Agency or anyone else is doing. What are you basing yourself on? In fact, a restaurant is probably a safer place to party than at home. What am I basing this on? Actually, it's enough to talk to the property owners organization. Notifications to their jammers have increased dramatically. Now, at best, you sit on narrow balconies instead of on airy outdoor terraces. You sit in small living rooms where you are too many – considerably more people per square metre than if you had stayed at the restaurant. It is also argued here that there are international studies. What kind of studies are these? It would be very interesting to know the facts behind this.
i-030bef7acca75a31-347	Madam President, I would like This is a pandemic, and very few people, if I may use that expression, go unscrupulously out of it. Then the restaurant industry has received a lot of attention and has a lot of support. We all have a neighborhood restaurant, a favorite restaurant or a bar that we feel a lot about and whose owner we might meet. Cultural life, leisure activities, churches and many others have also suffered a great deal. This applies to the activities as such, to those who run the activities and to all those in Sweden who would have liked to visit the activities. This, of course, suggests that we have not imposed restrictions for any other reason than that we have judged it necessary to ensure that the spread of the disease is reduced. Once it starts to decrease, it should remain at the lowest possible level; it should be pressed down. It is a difficult balance to assess when it is possible to provide better conditions, i.e. to ease existing regulations. Is it going to be a bursting spread of infection? In retrospect, it will be possible to see whether it was or not, but sitting and making the assessment is genuinely difficult. We have not been hiding behind anyone – neither was there anyone who said we had – but to respond to interpellations in this House or to come to the Constitutional Committee and answer questions is precisely to take responsibility for the policy that we are pursuing. It's about trying to explain and reason. I appreciate both the interpellant and Hans Rothenberg, who come into the debate with genuine questions. This is hard. I do not know whether international studies should be understood as research studies, but you can look around Europe and read media and embassy reports from the world. There you can see that restaurants, nightclubs and bars are an activity that has been shut down and severely restricted everywhere. There have been attempts to make reliefs – I think Boris Johnson would be allowed to go to a pub that was open until 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. That's what it's been like. I tried to describe this in my interpellation answer: Restaurants, restaurants and bars are environments where people who normally don't hang out meet. It means that if you spread infection, it is to people that you normally don't hang out with. Thus, new transmission chains are being created. People go home, and then we get another spread of infection. If we have a low spread of infection in society, that risk is not so great, but if we have a high spread of infection, of course, the risk increases. Today there are rules about distance and so on, and as it now looks, I think it feels safe to go to a restaurant where you respect the distance and have table service. But as I also tried to say in my answer, you invite to much more of perhaps association and after work the later you are open. There'll be more alcohol. There is absolutely such a parameter in this. Now that the spread of infection is declining, when the pressure on care is decreasing and when vaccinations increase, restaurant operations are, of course, one of many activities where we can make changes. From 1 June onwards, it is 22.30. It is an expression of our desire to do so, as is the case with many other reliefs. Since then, this activity has had its own legislation and has been able to adapt for a long time. You can see it as positive or negative. I believe that many other businesses look at the restaurant industry and think that it has actually benefited from being regulated and able to operate. I assume that the debate on all the support that has been and exists is taking place with the Minister for Economic Affairs. I don't go into them because I don't know them in detail.
i-030bef7acca75a31-358	Madam President, I would like Lena Hallengren can be sure that we are also manoeuvring the Minister of Economic Affairs on these issues, so it is not about that. This is very much about foresight. Now the Minister describes that it plans to open until 22.30 from 1 June. Yes, but it's such an enlightenment that's very important. If you're going to have staff working two or three hours longer in the evenings, you need to plan for it. And those who are going to work need to plan. After all, they also have family life and need baby - care to make ends meet. And it makes a big difference if you are open so that you can have several sittings. When I talk to the county administrative board at home and even with restaurant owners, I hear that you don't misbehave. You're careful with the controls. Cops come out and check it out. If you have a restaurant or bar you are also used to working with health restrictions. You know you shouldn't mess with the food and everyone shouldn't take the buffet. It is known that the spread of infection in such places can be extremely dangerous. A Christmas dinner can be devastating if the wrong people are handling it. So that's not where the problems have been, what I've heard in my county. Those who come to the restaurant may go and sit down at the tables in the restaurant as they should, but they may be standing in line too close. One person was very upset and said to me: No, you can't eat food and have a glass of wine at a restaurant, but outside Systembolaget people stand and crowd in large flocks, so you can do that. Then I feel this way: We must also transfer responsibility to all of us who do not run a restaurant. We all want these activities to remain. As the Minister says, we all yearn to live ordinary social lives. We're not going to discuss bankruptcies now, because that's what we're going to do with the Minister for Enterprise. But there have not been as many bankruptcies as one might expect in the industry, although some have closed down. But what I'm hearing is that a lot of people have actually mortgaged themselves in order to overwinter. Then a message in time, such as that from June 1st, means that you can have a later sitting, very much. Then you can see the light in the tunnel. There is another problem that can arise later. Many have left the industry now that it has been uncertain, because they have not been told in time what it will be like. Neither the government nor we have been able to know how the pandemic is developing. One problem that one looks forward to, when bringing home the economy that one has not had during the pandemic, is that one may have to recruit people who are not used to working in a restaurant. You can see that it is of great importance if you can keep all the people who have routine operations and if you know that you have finances for it during the summer. It's about being able to survive until the bookings start coming in for the fall. It believes in the government's vaccination strategy and that all of us will be released in a completely different way this autumn. My message is: All the information that comes on time and gives a hint of what it will look like is of enormous importance. That's what you're asking for, not for you to do some weird things.
i-030bef7acca75a31-366	Madam President, I would like Hopefully at the end of this pandemic, at least in its most serious phase. It has been a long phase, and there have been many horrors in this phase. The reason why we are having this debate and that I want to go in and take the debate is that we should learn for the future. This is not the last pandemic that affects our generation. Probably there will be several, and pandemics are likely to become more common. But then it is extremely important that you make the right decisions and that they are well-founded. The Swedish Public Health Agency has a self-reporting survey. It was done week 10 for Uppsala. Uppsala has been a place that has been particularly affected by the corona virus spread. Where was the infection then? Yes, it had been obtained at work, in shops and in health care. Restaurants and bars were a disappearing small part of this. This must be brought to light when the government spends so much of its energy on restrictions on the restaurant industry. I still regard the basis of that assessment as unfamiliar. And there's a big difference between restaurant, bar and nightclub. A nightclub is much like the old classic ball sea at McDonald's. Everyone is everywhere, and the balls are squirting, just like the virus is doing today. One cannot compare a nightclub with a restaurant where four people sit at a table, where the distance is regulated and where there are responsible restaurant owners who ensure that the restrictions are kept. When the Corona virus breaks out at 8:00 in the evening, the guests will go home. Then the party will move elsewhere. I'm afraid that's the reality. This is one of the wrong decisions. I assume that the government will evaluate itself when it comes to dealing with the forthcoming pandemic.
i-030bef7acca75a31-371	Madam President, I would like Now I'll remember to answer what Lotta Olsson said about foresight. I missed it in my first line. Yes, but of course we want forward planning. And now it's much easier, because now it's moving in the right direction. Now we have vaccinations that are increasing in scope. We can see how the spread of infection is decreasing. In December, we did not know what it would look like. Of course, we took the view that the strong measures taken at the end of November and at the beginning of December would produce results and that we would have a significantly lower spread of infection. This was not the case, but it has been an incredibly lengthy process. I'm not very fond of talking about waves all the time, because it kind of gives the feeling that it's like this: It's a wave, and then it goes over. Then there's a while, and then there's a new wave. That's not exactly how it works. In retrospect you can try to read the spread of the infection and see if it became or not a wave or if it became a wave that just got a small plateau and then took off again. This has been felt throughout 2021, which was why the government said: We intend to try every other week to make the best possible assessments based on the basis we have. We did this precisely in order to know what kind of expectation there is. We could say that we leave this for several months just in case. But you don't want that either. The Pandemic Act does not give the government the right to take measures that are disproportionate, but to try to be as close to what is needed to reduce the spread of infection as possible. Every other-week notification has simply been a way of trying to give the right expectation picture. Then I would think that both the authorities, which on several occasions have communicated together, as the government has a fairly well-informed population that really comes along. Everyone has probably felt: This is not really going in the right direction. It doesn't seem like it's so much better this week than last week. And we have said that we need to see significant improvements in order for us to make changes. I will also comment on this with the fact that they are taking care of themselves and that many of the staff with frustration can say: It is they who come here who may not really understand what to do. Sometimes you say in stores: Yes, but it is they who come here who do not follow the recommendations. We've put up a clear sign here. It's a little bit like this whole pandemic is. That's how it's fattened. It is not about regulations, it is about compliance. It is clear that if you do not have any customers in the shop, restaurant or elsewhere, it is not difficult to guarantee that you do not have any congestion. How to do this in the best way is therefore a challenge. What about hosts, and how do you communicate with visitors? Nevertheless, I would like to come back to the fact that if we had not had the rules that we have for the restaurants, the situation would have been different. Now we have a framework that means sitting four and four, and we stand here discussing almost as a matter of course that you are four at the tables and that it is table service. But that has not always been the case. From the beginning it was absolutely not so; then you could squeeze in as many as you wanted. It was just a question of how crowded the visitors agreed to sit: Let's get another chair! Of course, we long for this, and perhaps you built your income on that feeling, to have only a certain area but still be able to bring in a huge number of visitors. As we and the Swedish Public Health Agency, with the right of regulation, have regulated restaurant operations and catering facilities, it has not contributed to the spread of infection, and the picture and our view is that if we had not had these regulations, we would have had a different situation. We have had to minimise all the places in society where we could have an increased spread of infection. It is just as Hans Rothenberg said or if it was Lotta Olsson: there is a reason why workplaces and, for example, all government agencies have ordered domestic work to the greatest extent possible. Private contexts are not quite accessible.
i-030bef7acca75a31-383	Madam President, I would like Anticipation is exactly what it is all about. I don't feel that people are angry at things that you actually understand: Now it's like this, and now it's gonna be like this for 14 days. We can't know what's going on in 14 days, but now we have to deal with this. It is rather this fluke from day to day that it has sometimes been. I must say, however, that the government has improved, but from the beginning it was hugely flukey. Nor can you rely on Anders Tegnell when it comes to the entire governance of the country. He is not equipped for it, although he has many good qualities and is knowledgeable in other areas. Nor do I feel that these are bad messages that cannot be taken. If you are told that you are now going to have to close for three weeks because the contamination is catastrophic, then it is also a message. This is not to know, because you try so hard to plan for the staff to have a reasonable workload, to get your finances to go around and for customers to know that there is room at the restaurant. Unless customers think it's open at all, they won't get there. It is also about the products that you have to have. When we want to come and eat something good, there must be something, otherwise it is not relevant either. It is therefore a question of clarity. Then there may be basic planning, and if something happens, we all have to change. They want clarity and responsibility and not to hear that we should listen to the Public Health Agency, because it is not their job to compile all of this. In fact, that task has the government, and you cannot back down from that.
i-030bef7acca75a31-387	Madam President, I would like I do not share the view that there has been news from day to day. On the other hand, I agree that the interest, the desire, the need to get as much information as possible has been enormous. Now we may not be sitting as benched in front of the press conferences of the authorities, but they did so for many months, and I think we need to recall what it was like and how we constantly sought knowledge: what is happening, what do you think, what is going to happen? I shall not have a long defence speech for Anders Tegnell, but I must say that it is admirable for a government official to be prepared to step forward in that way. He does not deserve the criticism he receives from many others. When it comes to being transparent and always wanting to tell me, I think it would have been the opposite. Had you not answered all the questions and had an idea of what you believe and what the assessment is without saying that you could not answer, I do not think anyone would have been more satisfied. Of course you can always find a way to say you would have done that instead and only what you were sure of – but then there would have been quite a few press conferences, I can say. There would have been quite few decisions if you had only done what you were 100 percent sure of. It's kind of in the nature of things. As politicians, we also know that many people listen to elections and hear what they want to hear themselves. When the parties then come to power, the voters say: You promised! Well, let's say, we said this. So you listen in and in this case you might like to think that the spread of infection is decreasing and that this was only for a short time. I do not think that we wanted to hear from the outset that this is a pandemic, that it will take time and that a vaccine will also take time. It is a record that, one and a half years after the beginning of the pandemic, we will have a vaccinated population. None of us would have dared to believe that. I realise that foresight is very important, but I would also like to say that it is extremely difficult when you do not know what the future looks like.
i-030bef7acca75a31-392	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I and the government intend to develop national common guidelines on how to work against genital mutilation in the activities for which I am responsible. She has also asked me whether I and the government intend to ensure that there are more specialist clinics to work with gender-mutilated people in the country. She has also asked me whether I and the government are willing to invest in training health professionals in the field of genital mutilation. Finally, she has asked me whether I and the government intend to ensure that at an early stage in midwifery clinics routine checks are carried out on whether pregnant women from countries where genital mutilation occurs have been genitally grafted. I find it truly deeply regrettable that there is still a situation in which girls are exposed to something as repugnant as genital mutilation. Genital mutilation is comparable to torture and must be combated in every way. H erdsculture and honour oppression have no place in Swedish society. There must be no doubt about that. The government is taking a strong stance against honour-related violence and has during its term of office implemented several measures to strengthen support for girls and women who have been genitally grafted and to develop the work in healthcare and care. The Government decided in 2016 on a national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. The Government also decided in 2018 on an action plan against genital mutilation of girls and women. In the context of the Action Plan, mandates were given to several authorities. Among other things, the Gender Equality Agency will develop effective ways of working and methods of disseminating information on genital mutilation of girls and women. This assignment was presented on 18 December 2020, and the Gender Equality Agency has been tasked with continuing the work in the regulation letter for 2021. The Government has also given the National Board of Health and Welfare several assignments within the framework of the Government's strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. Among other things, the National Board of Health and Welfare will organise in-depth training for social services and health care on honour-related violence and oppression of genital mutilation. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also provide the care offered to girls and women who have been subjected to genital mutilation and make suggestions on how to improve care. The assignments cover the entire health care system including those activities where genital mutilation is most likely to be recognised, for example in child health care. The Agency's interim report in the mission to inventory the care of girls and women who have been sexually grafted was submitted to the Government in March 2020. It showed a great need for further knowledge development in the field. The assignment shall be reported to the Government no later than 1 November 2021. In the final report, the National Board of Health and Welfare will shed more light on the health care offered and the differences between regions and develop proposals for improvements. I intend to await the Agency's reports and proposals for further development work before taking a position on the need for additional knowledge support, training or demands on the professions of child health care. With regard to the question of more specialist clinics to work with gendered people in the country, it is, as Amineh Kakabaveh certainly knows, that the regions are responsible for most of the health care and how it should be organised. This also applies to the treatment offered for genital mutilation. Specialist clinics are a way of organising care to meet the needs of girls and women who have been sexually grafted, but it is the regions that ultimately decide how to organise care in the best way to meet patients' needs. Finally, I would like to point out that these issues are a high priority for the government. Work to stop human rights violations affecting girls and women will continue unabated.
i-030bef7acca75a31-398	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren very much for her answer. I knew that the government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to produce documentation for the government. It's very good and positive. At the same time, however, the government must be more aware that there is an obvious problem in the country, and not only in the big cities, where the few special receptions are where gender-stomped people can turn. Honor problems and genital mutilation are not problems that you talk about openly. Genital mutilation is particularly taboo. It's also sensitive because it's the woman's life and the underlife it's all about. Not many children, young or women tell either a doctor or an outsider. This also applies to the case that the police discovered. The other week the Swedish Radio told about some children who had been abused, which has come to the police's attention. Through that channel, the police found out that the girls had been sexually grafted here in Sweden in 2018, I think it was. The father held on to his children when the procedure took place – here in Sweden, despite the fact that we have since 1982 a law that prohibits genital mutilation. Of course, I welcome the government's initiative and all the investigations that have led to the prohibition of child marriage, forced marriage and genital mutilation – I myself have been involved in working for it. Unfortunately, however, the phenomenon occurs. And it's extensive. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, there are over 38,000 genital mutilations in the country, although not all of them have been mutilated here. Many come from countries where genital mutilation takes place. However, we do not have statistics from the last five to eight years on how many of those who have come here have this problem, on how many young and adult women suffer because they do not know what the situation is and that you can get care if you dare, want or are able to tell about it at all. I myself have attended many lectures in, for example, SFI or folk high schools in the country. I will never forget when I was in Borås and lectured to several classes together. They all said they were genitals. A father also sat there crying. Afterwards he said, "Amineh, we have lived in Sweden for seven years." We didn't know what you were telling me, that my children could be treated. I still have four daughters under the age of 12 and my own wife. The man was very moved and upset that you do not get information. It's rarely grown-up people talk about these phenomena. It is positive that the National Board of Health and Welfare is making proposals. But I hope that the government will also take on board and work to ensure that there will be new surveys. It is important to find out the scope. In my next post I will come to health care. It is not just a matter of a nurse, midwife or gynecologist being able to set up special receptions. There must be directives. I will come back to that.
i-030bef7acca75a31-407	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that Amineh Kakabaverh's and my own interest in the issues will bring us back into the debate, but I would like to emphasise that you get off a little bit when you suddenly start over after the stay. In his first speech, Amineh Kakabaverh well described the importance of this. I won't say you don't dare talk about it, because you do more today. But there is still every reason to work on how to increase transparency and understanding – but not the understanding of genital mutilation – and learn to listen to signals. You have to listen to the girls who express that they are in a situation where they are or are in danger of being sexually mutilated, and you have to do everything you can to prevent it. Then, of course, care needs to discover cases where this has already happened in another situation. Since 1 July 2020, we have a new crime, the child marriage crime, but also a new tool, the exit ban, to ensure that young girls in particular are not taken abroad to be married or maimed. A special basis for strengthening crimes with honorary motives has also been established. It is, of course, important that this is now used, so that in practice it contributes to fewer girls being married, maimed or subjected to other crimes with honorary motives. I think that Amineh Kakabaveh's commitment to these issues is very important. I think it is very important that we stand in this House and have this discussion. As I described in my interpellation response, a lot has happened in this area. Many missions have been given. A great deal of work is being done to ensure that the various parts of society increase attention, that you understand what you see and that you know where to turn. The Police Authority has a national competence network against honour-related crimes and has updated a specific methodological support for this. Skills-enhancing efforts have been made, both for investigators and for other decision-makers within the agency. The Prosecution Authority also has a new method support: a handbook for prosecutors on honor-related crime. I hope and believe that the work of the police and the Prosecution Authority leads to a higher degree of clearance in the case of female genital mutilation. You really need to listen to them and ensure that they get the satisfaction they deserve. Of course, it is important that those who actually dare to tell you feel that society is on its side. Others need to see that a person who takes courage and tells stories can get help and support. The fact that we have historically had so few cases in court regarding genital mutilation would, I believe, be due quite a lot to the fact that there has been uncertainty on the issues. You don't know how to handle it. I hope that the work now being done will change this. The culture of silence is something we counteract, and we will see its consequences. We intend to establish a national centre of competence against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland. It is clear that some of the work on honour violence will be directed towards the subject on which we are currently discussing. It is an important task to prevent and combat genital mutilation of girls and women. I look forward not only to giving that mission and working on it, but also to seeing the results of that work.
i-030bef7acca75a31-415	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs very much for the reasoning and the answer. It is very positive that the government has come up with very good and sharp proposals on this issue, which we have also decided on here in Parliament, and that, for example, the national competence team and the Equality Agency have been given assignments. But the thing is, we need to see this in a slightly bigger perspective too. The problems are in the municipalities where we have these individuals – where the children go to school, where the families come to the attention of the social services and where they go to the health centre, midwifery clinic or gynecologist clinic. There is a lack of knowledge. We in Neither whore nor kuvad conduct a podcast where we interview both vulnerable people as well as midwives, gynecologists and doctors from different parts. What they say is that it is difficult for many to understand this, for the individuals do not tell. The honorable victims do not tell openly unless, for example, one examines a pregnant woman who has complications and difficulties. Then you'll be able to talk, but what about all the young girls? How, for example, could school and health care handle this? There are school nurses. How can this be done together, for example with outpatient care for children and young people in the municipalities? I am not just talking about certain units that exist in the country, but I would like more country-wide information, knowledge development and skills development, for example in midwifery clinics, health care and schools. Schools can also learn about genital mutilation. I believe and hope that the National Board of Health and Welfare will come up with proposals that apply to the whole country, but also that a new survey will be carried out. The last survey was done a very long time ago. For example, according to the European Parliament, 20 000 asylum seekers across Europe come from the 30 countries where this exists, most in Africa and the Middle East. Women and girls come from there. It is believed that 5,000 of them have come to Sweden in recent years. This means that we certainly have a great many more genital mutilations than 38,000. We also know that many of them are children; it takes them a long time before they end up in midwifery or gynecologist clinic. That is why we also need tools to ensure that they receive care and care. And you can't just bet on the big cities. There are special receptions in Gothenburg and Stockholm, but these girls and women are everywhere, even in the rest of the country. We must ensure that they receive care and support.
i-030bef7acca75a31-420	Madam President, I would like I cannot emphasise this more than I have done in both my interpellation response and in my previous speech. I agree with the outrage of Amineh Kakabaveh. This is terrible. It is not just a physical intervention; it is a violation of the rights of girls and women. Violence is being done, and this is something they are being forced to live with. It is very important to know for everyone who works and meets this that the person who has been sexually grafted cannot get help with just care; this is, of course, a violation, as I said. I don't really know how much more I can comment. I can only say, as far as the knowledge of healthcare is concerned, that it is of course important to know this, that you know how to work preventively and that you know which countries it is more common and that it can happen at ever younger ages. It may also be the case that complete genital mutilation is not carried out. One may find ways to do this in sterile environments where one feels able to reduce suffering. But of course there is always another suffering left regardless. For example, the WHO strongly rejects this, which is very important, as a global health organisation. I don't have the knowledge to know how all the youth clinics work on this. But I hope and believe that knowledge exists and is gradually being expanded. This work shall be carried out by the national competence centre to be established within the framework of the County Administrative Board of Östergötland. Somewhere, it should be placed. But that doesn't mean that's where the knowledge should stay. On the contrary, it is important that knowledge is spread so. As Amineh Kakabaveh says, it is not that there are some places in Sweden. Our knowledge and knowledge are not complete, but there are many places. One must again learn to see, understand and dare to deal with the problem and not turn a blind eye to it and think that someone else does. It needs all staff to feel that meets children and young people and not least if you work in different places in the care.
i-030bef7acca75a31-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your commitment. As long as the problem of honour exists and is reproduced from the home, religious schools, communities and associations, and where culture of silence and cultural relativism exist, this problem will remain and thrive. That is why I believe that we cannot just rely on the regions and what they should do or on the national centres of excellence, even if they do good work. Chapter 4 of the Health Act. Section 2 states that the Government or the authority that the Government decides may make provision for the responsibility and tasks of the Head of Operations. This means that an activity such as a director of gynecology would like to set up at such a reception within the county council must be prescribed either by an authority or by the government under our law. It is not only possible to rely on everyone to comply with the law. My hope is that the Minister will ensure that there is a national action plan but also special receptions within the county council and not private. There should also be a survey. Knowledge and competence development is important already at the School of Education and Social Sciences and so on.
i-030bef7acca75a31-428	Madam President, I would like As Amineh Kakabaveh mentioned earlier, in 1982 Sweden became the first country in the Western world to ban female genital mutilation. Then it took 15 years, and then the law was tightened up. It is clear that it commits. It is not just a matter of making those decisions and banning. Anyone who violates the law can be sentenced to imprisonment for a maximum of four years. If a person is threatened with danger of life or serious illness, it can be sentenced to prison for between two and ten years. It's pretty severe punishment in case you figure it out. At the same time, the picture I have and the task I get is that there are not known cases of genital mutilation going on in Sweden in the way that someone was convicted of. Rather, the question is asked: Is it carried abroad? Where does this happen, and how does it happen? As we now tighten the exit ban and make the risk of genital mutilation a possible basis for a ban on exit, the hope is, of course, that it will contribute to fewer girls and women having to do this. The question was asked about how many people could have been exposed to genital mutilation. The National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned to do so. An assessment was made that looked at how many people could have been subjected to genital mutilation in 2012 – 2018. It has been seen that there has been a steady increase, and this applies in all health care regions. It's important to know. This increase may be due to the introduction of a new diagnostic code, which means that you have another way of following this. Healthcare professionals are also getting better at registering. The mere fact that health professionals can register makes it in their minds a question they ask themselves. We also need more methods to identify the incidence of genital mutilation in order to see what the trend is. Again, a great deal of work is being done. The hope is that a national competence centre will facilitate this work so that knowledge is available throughout the country.
i-030bef7acca75a31-436	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I see the need for an increased number of antigen tests in Sweden, whether I intend to take the initiative to carry out more antigen tests, for example by recommending the use of antigen tests to screen care workers, and what additional measures I intend to take to protect the elderly in general and in particular elderly people in particular living or elderly people with home care. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg has also asked me if I know how many per cent of positive viral test responses are sequenced in Sweden today, when I consider that Sweden will reach the Swedish Public Health Agency's goal of sequencing 10 per cent of positive test results, if I believe that the goal of sequencing 10 per cent of positive test results is sufficient and if I and the government intend to take any measures to support the regions in their work with sequencing of test results. Currently, regions report good availability of testing capacity in the country, and this is very positive. Anyone who experiences symptoms can and should be tested. The government clearly sees a need for an increased number of antigen tests in Sweden. In order to further strengthen the testing capacity in general and antigen testing in particular, the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions signed an additional agreement on antigen testing just before Christmas. Among other things, antigen tests can be used to increase the test capacity as a complement to PCR tests and to make rapid diagnosis in healthcare. Antigen testing is also recommended for the screening of care workers. By carrying out regular screening of staff in sensitive environments, such as elderly care, potentially infectious people who do not experience symptoms can be detected. It's very valuable. Rapid tests allow people to return to work more quickly after cold symptoms, thereby reducing the loss of personnel. The regions report the use of antigen tests, and I welcome that. Of course, antigen tests are a step in increasing opportunities to protect older people in general and older people in particular living or elderly people with home care in particular. Antigen tests are a way forward, but the possibility of introducing local restraining orders remains if necessary to prevent the spread of covid-19. Older people are also given priority first in the vaccination work. Just as the questioner states, the government has commissioned the Public Health Agency to monitor and extend sequencing to appropriate levels. The Agency shall also identify the viruses that occur in Sweden and investigate which variants cause possible vaccine breakthroughs. It shall also be ensured that the samples of all regions are included in the sequencing analyses. Both the European Commission and the Public Health Agency recommend sequencing 10% of positive cases as a target level. It should not be seen as a ceiling, but a level we should be at or above. In a later situation, if we have a large proportion of the population vaccinated and a few cases of infection, it may also be appropriate to sequence an even higher proportion of positive samples. The Swedish Public Health Agency reports that Sweden has reached 10 percent sequencing at national level. There is still some delay in reporting, but I am pleased that we can quickly switch to meet new challenges in this pandemic together. The government ensures that there are funds for appropriate analyses needed to manage the pandemic. Finally, I would like to remind you how crucial it is to follow advice, recommendations and restrictions. They protect against both presymptomatic infection and various viral variants.
i-030bef7acca75a31-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister for the answer to my two interpellations, which I asked months ago! A lot has happened since then – and I will say very positively – on these issues. I note, however, that in this area too I am forced to sound like a predictable opposition when I say that it has been too little and that it has been too late. I really think that Sweden has been far too slow to get the large-scale testing started. It has been a criticism from us Moderates from the beginning of the pandemic, and it also applies to the use of antigen tests, i.e. rapid tests. They are an important tool for screening certain staff groups and thus detecting asymptomatic people. The Swedish Public Health Agency now recommends that rapid tests be used in, for example, care. They can also be used in healthcare to screen patients before opening the door in the emergency room. But this should have been used by Sweden to a greater extent earlier. Municipalities that went before and started using rapid tests have been able to report good results. Employees have been found who have not had any symptoms of being infected but who have nevertheless proved to be so when screening has been carried out. In this way, life in care has been potentially saved. Now we are in a much better position than we were then, in mid-February when I wrote the interpellations. The vaccination has now come a long way. Everyone who lives in a special accommodation has been given the opportunity to vaccinate themselves, as well as the staff and now actually everyone in the population in general who is over 65 years of age. But the antigen tests are still something that I think we should use more of in the future. It is welcome that the Swedish Public Health Agency now has updated guidance in this area, which also highlights that antigen testing can be a tool for screening other staff groups and used in other activities as well. One area that is highlighted and which I think may be important is school. I've had a lot of calls. I am convinced that the Minister, or at least the Ministry, has also received many calls and calls from concerned teachers who feel that they cannot protect themselves from the infection. They get to go to their workplace at upper secondary school every day and there meet an incredible number of students, who can potentially be infected. In this type of situation, the use of antigen testing could be a good addition to what is absolutely essential, namely that we all take responsibility and follow the advice and recommendations that exist. Because it is clear that a chemistry teacher who conducts laboratory exercises and so on with his students has difficulty keeping a distance from them – while keeping the school open is an important goal. There antigen testing can be an important tool. However, I am a little perplexed by the agreement that exists between SKR and the state. It says that compensation can be paid for antigen tests where the sample is taken by healthcare professionals or other authorised personnel. Then there's a question. At school it is not always possible to have trained health professionals who carry out the test, but it would have to be self-tests or self-tests, and then perhaps no compensation can be paid. It would be good if the Minister here could answer the question about this, or if nothing else would take it back to the Ministry and, in any discussion with SPR, look at the current agreement. Madam President, I would like I will return to the second part of my interpellation in the next post.
i-030bef7acca75a31-456	Madam President, I would like Although I realize that it is Johan Hultberg's role to say that it is too little and too late, I think that one might still think about whether you always have to say it. It's a fact that we're testing a lot now. It's also a fact that although it took time for all our regions to scale up a test – which in all countries was minimal before the pandemic started, because that's not how they worked in health care – it was expanded and is now very extensive. As far as antigen tests are concerned, I do not share the view that all other countries use them so much. However, we have been keen in Sweden to ensure that rapid tests are used where they really play a role, precisely in the way that Johan Hultberg described, when it comes to elderly care and healthcare. Then you can say that we use them very much in all other contexts, but so far we are probably approaching a situation where antigen tests are easier to perform and where you can do one yourself. With all due respect: Anyone can't do a quick test as they've looked, but it's pretty special to stick that stick very far up their noses. It does not just anyone else, but it really takes health professionals to do so. But as I said, as soon as we see better technology in this where you can also do self-testing, I think it will certainly be an important part and that you will use it more. We haven't been there, and I can't say we're really there yet. But we're getting close. This is what a little affects the context in which you can have antigen tests. Can you test all pupils in primary school or upper secondary school when it may take 15 minutes to get the results and it should be the health care professionals who do the tests? Then it's much harder. I can only share the picture that Johan Hultberg has. When something else becomes possible, it is not desirable for high school students to spend their time at home and read remotely a single day more than necessary. Of course, if you can find ways that make you feel that the students can be in school, it is very important. I understand that the question also applies to school in general, where teachers feel that they are close to the students and cannot always keep their distance. This has actually been a limiting factor for how many tests are carried out. There has been no economic constraint, nor is it a question of insufficient testing. It is about how to use them adequately. That's actually a little bit of the point. It is important to say that there is a greater diff or a greater risk of an incorrect test response with an antigen test than if you are taking a PCR test. It is of course important to include it in a context so that you know that anyone who tests positive can also immediately get in touch with the care and have to do a regular PCR test. Only then will you know if it is about a person who is really infected and that you have to catch the disease and so on. There are recommendations and guidance from the Public Health Authority on how to use this. My picture is that even when we signed the Supplementary Agreement before Christmas some regions were running a little bit. But at the same time they were a little hesitant, because they didn't want to get into a situation where they used tests and trusted the result 100% but at the same time they didn't find everyone or maybe did something wrong. But that has now been scaled up. To conclude, I believe that when we have the opportunity to really do this with self-testing and do not need health professionals involved, the opportunities for how to use this and really make it easier in many different ways.
i-030bef7acca75a31-466	Madam President, I would like Of course, one does not always have to say, as a member of the opposition, that it is too little and too late. But again: I think it is in this case. There has been much of my and my party's pervasive criticism of the government's management of the pandemic that has often been both one and two steps behind. In dealing with the pandemic, it is precisely tempo and being fast-footed that has proven to be incredibly important. One of the explanations – it is in any case I am convinced – that Sweden has after all had such a large spread of infection and unfortunately so incredibly many who have died with covid-19 is the fact that we were a little too late on the ball, if you put it that way. It was a little too dizzy from the government and from the agency and also partly – it should be said – from the regions at the beginning of the pandemic. We did not get started with the testing, detection and isolation to a sufficient extent, but the infection was spread in society. We've had to pay for that all the time since then. Also when it comes to sequencing, many other countries, such as our Nordic neighbours, got started faster. I myself, Madam President, live in northern Bohuslän. On 24 January, the government decided to close the Norwegian border to Sweden on the grounds that the British viral mutation was quite common in Norway and that it was discovered to a large extent. I think it was a real decision. But my reflection then was: Yes, but we do not know what it looks like in northern Bohuslän. There we did not test to the same extent, and there we did not sequence the test results to the same extent. Sweden thus closed the border with a country that had come further in its sequencing and had better control. But we did not have the same basis for decisions and the same account of the situation in Sweden. It's serious when you don't know what's going on. Without reconnaissance, you'd say. You need to keep track in order to be able to take the right measures. I'm glad we've now reached sequencing levels. Now we reach the 10% recommended by both the Public Health Agency and the European Disease Control Agency. I hope that this will not be done without continuing to try to increase the proportion. I think it will be important not least in the future, when we see that there may be even meaner viral mutations. There is now talk of the Indian, of which we have some twenty recorded cases in Sweden. There is also a risk that there will be new mutations. Then it is extremely important that we sequence to a greater extent, and it should also be possible to sequence a greater proportion as the spread of infection hopefully goes down and we therefore also have fewer positive answers. Then the share should be able to increase. It is my hope that this will be the case. Forward is my hope in terms of antigen tests that said that the government, together with SKR, is looking at whether you need to adjust the agreement that exists today. As I read it, for example, it would not be possible for the state to provide compensation or for the municipalities to receive compensation unless health professionals are involved in carrying out the tests. In upper secondary schools, for example, once again, it is perhaps not practicable, but the way forward there is perhaps precisely the use of self-testing. Then the agreement that is now in place needs to be adjusted and updated accordingly.
i-030bef7acca75a31-472	Madam President, I would like I think I will refrain from the overall review, analysis and conclusions as to why Sweden was hit hard and is hard hit – although I would also like to add to Johan Hultberg's exposition that the excess mortality in Sweden compared to the rest of Europe, which may well be considered to be quite relevant, is still on the lower half. There is nothing to belittle what has happened in Sweden or the deaths that have occurred, but I still think that one should have a relatively fair picture of the hard work that the Swedish people have done together to reduce the spread of infection. I believe, of course, that testing plays a very important role. That is the reason for the whole discussion that has taken place over the last year, although I think it has hardly been about the will but rather about a very tough load at first. Since last autumn, quite a long time now, we have had a high and extensive test capacity in Sweden. In 2021 we are at 300 000 – 350 000 a week. It is very important that we do not in any way reduce it before we either feel that we have a much less spread of infection or feel that we want to replace parts of this with antigen or rapid tests. PCR tests, however, are the absolute safest and also enable the sequencing that Johan Hultberg talks about. My picture is probably that this with self-testing is not really there, that there are no conditions and opportunities to have all students at a school tested in a safe way, for example. The pilot projects have involved health professionals who have done this. It's possible I'm wrong in this, but it's my picture. If the conditions change, we constantly discuss our agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. We already agreed when we signed the test agreement that we had to come back when the issue of rapid tests cleared up and when we felt that this was an option, which we did only a few weeks later. It is also true that when the Swedish Public Health Agency describes which areas you can imagine are most relevant to test in, it is where you feel that you can do the testing, then refer to the regular care and really handle what can occur when you discover positive cases. This is what it is all about. But as I said, when self-testing really becomes possible on a larger scale, I think we are all very interested in ensuring that they can be introduced into appropriate areas. Whether there are children and young people at school or there are completely different contexts and environments remains to be seen. However, I am absolutely sure that we will come back to the issue of testing and how to ensure that we keep away from covid-19, even with a high vaccination coverage, if any changes need to be made.
i-030bef7acca75a31-478	Madam President, I would like I choose to take a positive view of the Minister's response. There is transparency about how work needs to be developed in this area. I think it is very important that we look at what we can do further to protect those groups that are not yet vaccinated and are late in vaccination, such as young people, and how we can protect those who have a workplace where it is impossible to keep a proper distance. It is ultimately a matter of health and safety at work. I myself am married to a teacher who sometimes at home may have expressed some frustration that we are not going to meet anyone, barely our own family, in her spare time but that she will then in everyday life meet lots of children, colleagues and often also parents. It is clear that I think we need to look at the possibility of using rapid tests, for example, in order to be able to take another step in the work to ensure a safe and safe working environment both for the students and for the staff. Of course, this applies primarily to upper secondary school. It's easier to do these tests there. The difficulties with smaller children are quite obvious. Sometimes we in Sweden wait for the perfect solution, and that makes us a little late. I believe that we sometimes need to see that these tests are not perfect, but that they can nevertheless be an important tool for detecting some of those who carry the infection and thus breaking the transmission chains – combined with other important efforts that are still needed. Of course, vaccinations are the most important thing for us to be able to wrestle down the opponent called covid-19.
i-030bef7acca75a31-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for a very good discussion! If there is something that will remain, something that we will need for a long time to come, it is precisely the ability to test, to feel that we can in different ways keep the covid-19 virus away and to be able to detect when we have positive cases so that we can stop the infection as soon as possible in order to cope with the open society that we are headed towards again. I have no other opinion on this matter. As antigen tests become much better and it becomes possible to do them as self-tests, I think the applications are increasing considerably. It is, of course, possible to imagine schools – now I think very freely; that is what the regions must do. But there is also the greatest risk of infecting each other as colleagues. Children have not been considered as contagious. You can always discuss that. Now, at the end, I say the end; perhaps it was wishful thinking – of the third wave, we have experienced that it spreads more among children and young people. That has not been the case throughout the first year, I would say, of the pandemic. Of course, this discussion continues. Testing colleagues and adult people is one thing, and how – as Johan Hultberg says – to let young children test themselves is another thing. In particular, it applies to high school pupils and students at universities and so on, who need to be able to carry out their duties and their working days. In combination with a low spread of infection and very many vaccinated, testing will continue to be an important tool. Let us hope that antigen tests that are really suitable for self-sampling will be reliable. Then the applications will increase considerably.
i-030bef7acca75a31-486	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to deal with the situation that arises when health professionals refuse vaccination for themselves. The vaccine saves lives, and Sweden has a high vaccination will. In a survey of the Public Health Agency among senior residents and home care personnel, eight out of ten indicate that they have already vaccinated or will vaccinate against covid-19. The government strives – of course everyone – for a high level of vaccination in the entire population, and the Swedish Public Health Agency and S veriges K ommuner and R egions closely monitor questions about vaccination coverage among healthcare professionals. However, the signals so far are, as has been said, that the vaccine will generally be high. I would like to remind the interpeller that in Sweden there is a constitutional protection against coercive physical intervention which means that an employer cannot force his employees to take a vaccine. However, under certain conditions, the employer may make changes in activities to prevent the spread of infection. Such a position requires an assessment based on the circumstances of each individual case and is best assessed by the employer. I would also like to remind you that the Public Health Authority continues to recommend that all healthcare professionals, whether vaccinated or not, follow basic hygiene practices, use recommended protective equipment and follow current guidelines for disease symptoms. As I mentioned, you can never force anyone to take a vaccine in Sweden. However, it can be ensured that the person who receives an offer to vaccinate has the information needed to make an informed decision based on facts and evidence. Since healthcare professionals are among the highest priorities for vaccination, many in the group have already been offered vaccines and then informed by, for example, the employer. If a lower level of vaccination is identified at a particular workplace or in a specific staff group, specific information actions by the region may be appropriate. Employers in health care, but also in other sectors, can make vaccination easier in various ways. Around the country there are good examples of such initiatives, and I welcome them. In addition, national information efforts from the Public Health Agency are ongoing in accordance with the mandate given by the Government in December last year.
i-030bef7acca75a31-494	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There's a lot going on during the pandemic. When I wrote my interpellation in January or February, this issue was very much debated. There were reports from nursing homes and hospitals about staff who were not alert to vaccination. This is something that not only affects the individual, the staff, but affects patients, groups and other staff. We know that there are groupings that actively promote the non-use of vaccines. Now I am not talking about avoiding the vaccine of any single pharmaceutical company, but about resistance to vaccines as such. This has a negative impact on the entire global society, and it is not usually based on scientific conviction. Healthcare professionals are a special category and have a responsibility that often goes beyond that of many other professions because they have a responsibility for other people's health. By their own health, or lack of health, other people can also be adversely affected. That is why this is an issue that can actually be discussed even if we are not in an ongoing pandemic. A pandemic, Madam President, is something that is very acute. If you're not prepared, you don't know what to do. What we learn from this pandemic is to be prepared for the next pandemic. Then it might be good to think about these things. Today's News carried out a survey last winter about the willingness to vaccinate in the care of the elderly in the metropolitan regions. This study showed that there were then municipalities that indicated that nearly half of the employees were reluctant to take the vaccine. A further number of municipalities stated that a quarter wanted to wait. This concerned mainly the occupational categories of nurses and carers. It is true that an employer must not force anyone to vaccinate. Discipline is also not permitted if someone refuses. This is what the Constitution says. But then we come to what is reality today: a pandemic is extraordinary and cannot be dealt with as any work-related issue. Although few people refuse to vaccinate and work in health care, the consequences can be very great. Healthcare professionals are a special key group, and this is a safety issue for staff and patients. When I take note of the Minister's reply, I hear that it is mainly about information. Yes, information may be good, but I do not think it is a lack of information that is at the root of someone making an active stand not to vaccinate themselves, especially if you work in health care. That is why I think it is important, for example, that training in these professions should be made clear what is and what is important and what is good. It should also be available on a contractual basis in the case of employment. You can compare this with midwives who, for reasons of conscience, are not concerned with certain tasks that lie within the profession of a midwife. It's not just saying no, thank you. I wonder if there are any creative ideas in the government as to how to deal with this in the face of a possible future pandemic.
i-030bef7acca75a31-504	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for the fact that it was a few months ago that Mr Rothenberg asked the question and that perhaps the situation has clarified something, when I listen to Mr Rothenberg, I hear that the question obviously remains. I would like to say that the picture is not that there is a great resistance to vaccination. The municipalities and regions of Sweden, which are responsible for vaccinations as well as for being the major employers among healthcare professionals, do not describe vaccination resistance as a major problem. Of course, this does not mean that there could be individuals who are reluctant. I don't know if I'm going too hard now, but there can be some peer pressure sometimes if, for example, there is someone at a workplace who doesn't want to vaccinate and who becomes a little tonic. Of course, you need to get to grips with that. I'd like to say that information is very important. With a lot of people, you get far. For those who have made up their mind and who are genuine opponents of vaccination, if the term may be used, no information is sufficient. Then it is not a way forward, but if you feel that the situation can be serious, you have to think about whether that person should be allowed to do something else with the same employer. I would like to remind you that the individuals in the group to be protected – the old and the fragile – were the first to receive vaccines, precisely for their protection. Of course, it is a very important part that the staff who work should have relevant protective equipment, but if the question is whether we intend to change the constitutional protection against forced physical intervention, the answer is no. I do not think that Mr Rothenberg or the Moderates have a different view of this. In such cases, Mr Rothenberg may say so. I do not want to draw any parallels whatsoever to the fact that a midwife is expected to perform abortions as an important part of her profession. On the other hand, the person who works in the care of the elderly must of course do his/her job, but the question of how to protect the elderly needs the employer to decide on each individual case. It is perhaps not surprising that there was some skepticism at the beginning of December when vaccinations had not started. It may also have remained for a time when very few had been vaccinated. But now we have seen in the course of our work, so to speak, that knowledge has increased and there is not only negative peer pressure but that the whole of society is also talking about vaccinating itself. I think it is important to make every effort on the part of the regions, on the part of the employers, to facilitate vaccination. However, it is also important that the vaccineator, which is often a district nurse or another nurse – not often retired people who now go in and work and do a fantastic job and a great job – sit on knowledge and information. It often plays a big role for many that the person you meet actually has a competence and knowledge of what the vaccinations will be able to mean. It gives a very great credibility. We have a vaccination will in Sweden of about 80 percent in general among the population. Of course, we need to ensure that this 80% does not only exist in certain population groups, in certain parts of Sweden and in certain age groups, but that we reach a high level of vaccination in large parts of the country. It is, of course, important to ensure that we are not vulnerable and open to new outbreaks and so on. It is an important part, but I would say that there is a great willingness to vaccinate and that there is a huge amount of work being done. You get a long way with knowledge. If, in the final analysis, the employer makes an assessment that someone may have to carry out another task because he or she is in some way acting recklessly towards those for whom he or she works, it is a matter for the employer.
i-030bef7acca75a31-513	Madam President, I would like This is a question that may seem somewhat obsolete today when we write on 18 May. But I don't think we should call it a hello too early, because it's enough for some individuals in a professional group and that they're in a smaller place where they play a big role because there's a smaller population to be vaccinated – then the individual vaccineateur or the individual healthcare professional becomes a very important person. I think this is something we should be very attentive to for the future. Today, the discussion has shifted to the question of whether to use the vaccine from Company X, because it can mean a lot of strange things, or whether to use the vaccine from Company Y, and all of a sudden the entire Swedish population becomes vaccine experts. We also know that there are closed anti-vaccination groups – both Swedish and international. There, feelings and private experiences are given the same or greater weight than articles in scientific journals. The independent journalist Malin Lernfelt has written an in-depth article on the issue. She has gone into the matter in depth and believes that there is no room for discussion or nuance in those groups. It's black or white, and there's vaccine black as night. Anti-vaccination propaganda can also be viewed as an insidious social infiltrator. Why is it so important to also focus on health professionals? Let us reverse the argument. Is it the case that there are health professionals who for some reason are reluctant to vaccinate? Yeah, okay, let's respect that. But then maybe you should have a regulatory framework that makes this more flexible. If you listen to what the representatives of the various trade unions are saying, it is a question of labour law, and the question is a little related to what is the special situation right now. The special situation is a pandemic. Let's look beyond the borders of the country. The increasing resistance to vaccination has led 12 European countries to introduce mandatory vaccination. It's possible! In Italy, vaccination against measles has been mandatory for all preschool and school children since 2017. No child is allowed to attend preschool unless it is vaccinated, and parents of unvaccinated schoolchildren are subject to penalties. In Germany, all children who attend preschool and all staff born after 1970 who work in preschool or school and all healthcare professionals must be vaccinated against measles. Anyone who does not vaccinate their children risks a fine of up to SEK 30 000. So far there is no obligation in any country to vaccinate against covid-19, but the issue is currently being discussed in Switzerland, for example, where the resistance to vaccination is widespread. Now this discussion is not specifically about health professionals in these countries; it is about how to deal with vaccinations. But health professionals are a key group. Unless the health - care professionals do 100 percent, it will be difficult to motivate those who are reluctant to be vaccinated. That is why I would like to see the government have a somewhat more open approach to how to deal with the issue in the future. The next pandemic could be far worse than the sniff we have right now.
i-030bef7acca75a31-521	Madam President, I would like Now perhaps the discussion boils down to something where I understand what Hans Rothenberg wants to get at. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the desire for vaccination in Sweden is high. We have worked with it for decades to get the Swedish people to have vaccination and to vaccinate their children. It struck me when Hans Rothenberg described the demands for measles vaccination for children in Italy that over 98 percent of all two-year-olds in Sweden are vaccinated against measles and have taken their childhood vaccinations. This is not because people must but because we have a way of working in Sweden where we explain and reason early on. Parents therefore accept that they understand the role of vaccinations. Many also go voluntarily and take their TBE vaccination. They pay themselves – it can of course be discussed. There are the annual flu vaccinations for the elderly. Right now there is a great desire to vaccinate. We will, of course, see where this ends and what the conclusion is; the question has not yet been put to everyone. I think it would be unwise if Sweden chose a way out of the voluntary vaccinations and towards some form of obligatory, perhaps coercion, regardless of whether it applies to the whole population or to certain occupational groups. Sweden has come a long way. I will not say that Sweden is the world leader – I do not know – but Sweden is among the countries in the world with the highest vaccination will. We will continue to work that way. Not until something can prove that Sweden's road is not successful and that other countries succeed better, I am prepared to change paths. We are keen to have access to vaccines in Europe, have jointly paid and signed agreements, but there are countries where vaccination has started to stop. Although the countries have received vaccines, they do not get them out, and the number of vaccinations is at low levels. There are also countries that quickly vaccinated many – I think of the United States – but it is not certain how far they will actually reach. I believe that, basically, our way of working is successful. Not least, we shall maintain the Swedish people's willingness to vaccinate themselves in the face of future pandemics. For example, I have visited Rinkeby and looked at the model used there. They work in an area where vaccination is not self-evident, and they work with both outreach children's and health care and to emphasise the importance of vaccinating their children. In this way they get a high level of vaccination early. It is success no matter where you work. If it turns out that you are working in an activity where you can expose others to infection, where there is a danger to patient safety or other circumstances, it is a matter for the employer to deal with. But I am not prepared to say that Sweden should choose a different path from that which has proved successful for vaccinations. Having said that, we now have the challenge of ensuring that everyone vaccinates, and they exist in all parts of society. And sometimes there's not even an employer.
i-030bef7acca75a31-527	Madam President, I would like It is when we begin to approach the 90% level in order to obtain flock immunity that the problem can be re-activated. I have great respect for the fact that we are now three or four months after the issue was formulated. If I had written the interpellation three weeks ago, I would probably have added a broader reasoning, but we have raised that in the discussion. It is not when we are heading for the 60, 70 or 80 % level of vaccination that the problem is at hand, but when we have the last of those. Whether it's because of individuals who refuse to vaccinate or if it's a health care professional, it's just as bad. However, health professionals are a key group in this context, and we should expect them to set an example. Madam President, I would like The Moderates were early in demanding national guidelines from the government. Consideration would also be given to taking certain measures against health professionals who refuse to vaccinate. It has been possible to put certain industries under practically professional bans because of extraordinary circumstances, and it is only reasonable to push the borders on this global public health issue as well. As a patient, old or ill, you should feel safe in the environment you are in. A mutation that the current vaccine does not bite but where we have to start again is a failure in this context. That is why it is important to succeed. During the training, it must be made clear what applies to the person working in the healthcare sector. It shall also be possible to make employment conditional. And this should apply in extraordinary circumstances – a kind of force majeure. Covid-19 is one of the biggest force majeure situations we have experienced in the world.
i-030bef7acca75a31-532	Madam President, I would like Now Mr Rothenberg has had two speeches and a closing speech, and yet I have not heard Mr Rothenberg say that the Moderates want us to force people to vaccinate themselves. But it almost sounded like it was in the closing speech anyway. Let's see if we get back to that question. The government has no desire to say that people should be forced to vaccinate. We think it's counterproductive. People feel that they can't make a choice of their own without someone forcing them. This may cause fewer people to feel interested in or to be prepared to vaccinate. Nor is it a question of vaccination just now. Very likely, you need to replenish your covid vaccination – perhaps annually. We don't know that yet. It is not a question of saying that during a pandemic one has a special attitude, but we always need to work on a high level of vaccination will. It shall be accessible and simple and shall be as low as possible thresholds and barriers. Sweden's municipalities and Regions are both responsible for vaccinations and large employers in healthcare, and I have not been reached by the fact that there would be signs that healthcare professionals would be less willing to vaccinate themselves. There was initially a concern for staff in parts of elderly care, but we do not believe that it is a basic problem or a general problem today. Here we have to work on the issue. I would also like to remind you that we still do not know how much you can infect even if you are vaccinated. It is incredibly important that everyone who is vaccinated and working in environments where you meet people, not least old people, with the risk of severe disease, continues to use the protective equipment that you should wear because vaccination does not necessarily provide 100% protection against infecting others.
i-030bef7acca75a31-537	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me how I intend to ensure that all unvaccinated people have access to free antibody tests. On 25 February 2021, the Swedish Public Health Agency amended its recommendations regarding the use of antibody tests as a result of, among other things, the vaccination campaign that is now being carried out throughout Sweden. The current recommendation stipulates that large-scale antibody detection is of limited value at individual level for individuals who want to know if antibodies against covid-19 have developed after the course of infection. This means that antibody testing should only be carried out in the case of a medical indication, as an opportunity to identify immunity or when conducting studies. It is therefore still possible to carry out studies to identify the immunity of the population. In its recommendations, the Public Health Authority emphasises that antibody testing is resource efficient when used in seroepidemic follow-ups at group or population level to investigate how many have developed antibodies against sars-cov-2 after covid-19 or vaccination against the disease. Antibody testing at individual level is indicated in cases where it is medically justified to consider the result of an antibody test in the continuation of patient management. Repeated antibody testing by a person who has previously received a positive antibody response is recommended only if medically justified. The agreement signed between the State and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions in June 2020 and subsequently extended in November 2020 has worked very well and ensured that the testing capacity in Sweden is very high. The agreement stipulates that all testing shall be carried out in accordance with the recommendation of the Public Health Authority to be financially replaced by the State. However, there are still opportunities for individual companies to offer antibody testing where there is interest in the individual. Given the large capacity available in the PCR testing, it is also possible to test for symptoms, which is very important in this context. Week 15 was conducted over 335 000 PCR tests throughout the country. It is recognised that the regions have good capacity for sampling and all offer the same or next weekday sampling. Test responses are obtained in the majority of all regions no later than the following day. There are slightly longer response times if the sample needs to be transported outside the region for analysis.
i-030bef7acca75a31-542	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your reply and, at the same time, express my appreciation for the fact that the Minister is devoting this afternoon and evening to discussing a number of pandemic-related interpellations. Unfortunately, my interpellation is more than a month old now, which means that further things have happened on this issue since it was submitted, but I think it is all right to debate it anyway. The background to my interpellation is that at the end of March the Västra Götaland region, where I live, and also Region Stockholm, suddenly announced that they stop offering the public time for antibody testing. This is because the Swedish Public Health Agency considered the tests to be of limited value. More regions have followed, and now it seems that the broad antibody testing has been stopped throughout the country. I find it a little difficult to understand the logic. Firstly, it will be a very long time before all Swedes have been vaccinated, especially those in the younger age groups – if, for example, children will be vaccinated at all. The fact that people can get clear information about whether they have antibodies is extremely valuable to the individual and its relatives. It may also be important in some cases for the individual's employers or others. Secondly, it should be of great interest from a social point of view to see how much of the unvaccinated population has antibodies against covid-19. It is the antibodies together with the vaccination that can contribute to flock immunity. Thirdly, there has been a periodic shortage of vaccines, and vaccine plans have been moved forward in time. No one knows how long the vaccine will last either. In such a situation, it might be reasonable to consider whether people without antibodies should be vaccinated first and if those with antibodies should be placed last in the vaccination queue. Throughout the EU, the issue of digital vaccination passports and covid passports is being discussed, and Denmark, among other things, is already a reality. However, vaccination with confirmed antibodies or fresh negative covid test has been compared in Denmark in its covid passport. The European Commission has proposed the same thing – that vaccination, detected antibodies and negative covid tests should be equated with the proposed green certificates or what we call vaccination passports. The only problem is that if Sweden does not offer antibody tests for unvaccinated people, the possibility of issuing covid passports for unvaccinated antibodies in accordance with EU rules falls. I fully understand that we do not want to do antibody tests on those who are already vaccinated. Nor does it want people to abuse this with repeated antibody tests. However, when making an appointment you should be able to see if a person is vaccinated or not and also see when it last did an antibody test. People who are vaccinated are of course useless to test, but for the rest of the population it should be interesting to have extensive testing of antibodies. This applies not least to children and young people, who do not intend to vaccinate in the near future – if at all. Madam President, I would like I simply do not understand how Sweden will be able to meet the EU's requirement for green certificates unless it gives the unvaccinated public the opportunity to carry out antibody tests. In addition, the Minister's reply shows that covid tests should be carried out primarily in case of symptoms. If you have no symptoms, can you do these tests? If you can't, then you can't get that green certificate for a trip abroad unless you're vaccinated. The effect is that the unvaccinated part of the population – including the majority of our children and young people but also others who are unvaccinated for various reasons – will not be able to receive the green certificate agreed by the EU, which will be a condition for many trips abroad. In this connection, I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Social Affairs, a little differently from the original one. How does she intend to ensure that Sweden meets the EU's requirements for positive antibody and covid tests to be equated with vaccination when issuing green certificates and that the entire population, even unvaccinated, should have the same chance of receiving such a certificate?
i-030bef7acca75a31-554	Madam President, I would like I thank Jan Ericson for this discussion and for the opportunity to answer what I am thinking are honest questions. I have some answers that I hope will sort this out. After all, the state fully pays for vaccinations, PCR tests and antigen tests or rapid tests, as it is also called. In the past, antibody testing was also funded. I just want to say that it costs SEK 550 to do an antibody test, which you don't do because you feel like checking. This possibility was initially because at the beginning of the pandemic there were many who were very likely to have had an infection but had not been allowed to do a PCR test and did not know if they had had covid-19. Today, we are on a test capacity of almost 350 000 a week, and people are indeed being asked – and I also urge here – to do a PCR test in case of any symptoms and suspicion that you are infected with covid-19 so that you know if you are infected or not. This is because if you know that you are infected, you also know that there is a certain amount of time, and then you have recovered. I tell you this because that is the definition in Europe of digital certificates. It is to show that one is vaccinated with one of the EMA approved vaccines. It is that you have a PCR test that is negative and not older than 72 hours, I think it is, but also a certificate of recovery. It does not really say that you should have antibodies, but what it says is that there should have been some time from having a positive test. You should prove that you are now healthy, and you can prove that either through a vaccination certificate or through a negative PCR test – or you can tell that you had a positive PCR test but that it is at least two weeks old. I think it's two weeks; we'll have to get back to that. That is how the EU defines it. This is also done because antibody tests are not 100% safe. I do not mean that they are 99.9% sure, but I think that this issue has been discussed for a long time. It's not certain it'll give you a rash. There was even a concern: What if you first vaccinate and then check, and then you have no antibodies? It's not safe. If you're vaccinated, you're vaccinated. The bottom line of this is that even if Jan Ericson finds out that he has antibodies today, how long do those antibodies apply? That is why the EU is not using this, but instead talking about recovery certificates. Then you have a certificate that you have been ill, and after a certain period of time you are assessed to have antibodies. It is not determined by an antibody test but by having an old positive test. I do not know if I am making myself clear, but that is why. We cannot use taxpayers' money in every possible way, but we need to know what the purpose is and to see that it is well-motivated. An antibody test can be performed on a medical indication but also for study purposes to determine how immunity looks in the population. Then there's the possibility. Those who are curious and want to pay for themselves also have the opportunity to take an antibody test. Otherwise, care should be taken to first vaccinate when the possibility exists and second, of course, to perform a PCR test when you experience symptoms or suspect that you are carrying the covid-19 virus. The digital passport for the EU is not designed based on antibodies, so an antibody test will not affect the possibility of getting one.
i-030bef7acca75a31-563	Madam President, I would like There were some answers here that I can take on board. At the same time, I'm a little perplexed. It is said that the antibody tests are uncertain, but it is also said about the other tests. There are many different tests that are used, and what I understand is said that the PCR tests are also quite uncertain.
i-030bef7acca75a31-564	The minister says they're not. Then let's hope that's true. The minister speaks of the cost, $250. Sure, we're gonna save the taxpayers' money. At the same time, we have spent hundreds of billions on various types of crisis measures. Being able to offer antibody tests is, I think, valuable. I have taken such a test myself and found out that I have antibodies. I think it is positive if you can include it in a certificate pending vaccination. Then you don't have to take a new PCR test. But my first question may be: can the Minister guarantee that anyone who wants can actually take a PCR test if they have not been vaccinated? This may be the case for children and young people, for example, if the family is going on vacation, even if they do not have symptoms. I would like an answer to that. Then there is another issue that also needs to be highlighted in this context. In February, the government instructed the authorities responsible to prepare for the issue of vaccination certificates. Even then, it was known that the EU was discussing a broader solution, including negative covid tests and certificates of illness and recovery. In mid-March, it was announced that the European Commission wanted to see such a solution. Despite this, the government has obviously not commissioned the authorities to ensure that this part is included, but only vaccination is included in the mission to the authorities. The other day, Minister for Digitalization Anders Ygeman stated that Sweden was one of the first countries to test the EU's green certificates, but at the same time it came to the conclusion that more than just the completed vaccination should be included in the certificates. This was noted, among other things, by SVT Nyheter in an element on 5 May. Responsible authorities have been working with the Swedish Green Certificate for three months approximately, since mid-February, and the European Commission's line has been known for two months. Nevertheless, the government does not seem to have acted on this, but it is still vaccination that is included in the certificate and not some sort of test. It is my question to the Minister for Social Affairs why the government has not long since given a clear mandate to the authority to draw up green certificates in line with EU requirements, but instead chosen to discriminate against all those who are not vaccinated and may not be. I am thinking, above all, of children and young people. We still do not know whether children will be vaccinated, and young people will have to wait a long time for others to receive vaccines first. Will the Minister of Social Affairs take the initiative to broaden the mission to the authorities, so that at least the negative tests are included in the certificates, which will enable families to travel and so on? We are spending quite a lot of money in the EU on re-starting. For example, we have had the large recovery fund that Sweden is involved in funding precisely to boost the European economy. Then it is a bit strange if we are not to help as many as possible start travelling again and help countries in southern Europe to speed up their economy and tourism. Then I think it is an important part that a family can get certificates even if it is only the parents who are vaccinated and not the children.
i-030bef7acca75a31-573	Madam President, I would like We will answer all these questions when the work has gone a little further. After all, 26 June is the date when the EU expects it to be ready. We ourselves have said on 1 June. The reason we are dealing with vaccinations is because we have a national register of them. We have that knowledge nationally. How to insert PCR tests and handle the issue of recovery is more complicated. It may not be about the Digitalisation Authority, but rather it is a question of dialogue with health care in terms of how to deal with it. But we'll get back to that. Sweden will not be a country that does not have the same passport as all other countries. But it is not so long since the EU put its foot down and said something about what should be stated in the passport. We'll get back to you on that, and the authorities are working on it. I'd really like to say that. Let me also take this up again with antibody tests, so that we can understand. Even if you can show that you have antibodies, it doesn't tell you how long you have them. That is why this is not included. It is another thing to show that a negative PCR test has been performed a number of hours ago. However, I do not think that is the difficult part. The difficult part is this with recovery and how to look at it. After all, it is based on a positive test, then a certain time will pass until you recover, and after that you are assumed to have antibodies for a certain period of time. This is also something on which the EU must agree jointly: how long do you think this should be valid? Again, the Public Health Authority and the regions agree that it is not reasonable for everyone who wants to do antibody tests. However, on medical indication, it can be done, as well as for studies on immunity in the population. As far as the vaccine passports are concerned, we should remember that Denmark already has parts of this. I don't think there's a recovery certificate, but you can do a test that's negative. You need this in another way in Denmark to go to a restaurant or to go to a hairdresser. We do not have this in Sweden. Of course, we will do what we need to have the same opportunity to travel between the countries of the European Union as everyone else has, but the role it plays in Sweden is a matter for a completely different interpellation debate.
i-030bef7acca75a31-581	Madam President, I would like I can begin by fully agreeing with the Minister that the Danish solution may not be something we should be seeking in Sweden. Vaccination certificates have been used many times when travelling to different countries. Not least do we in Parliament, who travel to strange places sometimes. You have to have vaccination certificates for different things in Africa, South America and so on. There's nothing strange about travel. On the other hand, requiring some form of certificate to move around your own country and do everyday things does not seem very appealing. I fully agree with the Minister. The Minister says it's complicated how to get the tests into the certificates. I understand that. Solving that issue must be rather difficult. But then you also have to start sometime. The Minister says the work is going on, but as far as I know, the government hasn't given that mission to the authorities-- not if we're going to believe the media anyway. SVT News says that today there is no solution for how to deal with this by including test results in the certificates. If you do not start the work and give a clear mandate to the responsible authorities, you will never solve this. Then my question to the Minister is: is there a mandate for the Digitalisation Authority and the Public Health Authority to do this and also to work out a solution for this with the tests, or does the Minister intend to pursue this issue? Even if it is perhaps the Minister for Digitalization who gives the formal mandate, one must of course discuss in the government that the authorities should be given this task, because otherwise we will never be able to resolve this by 26 June.
i-030bef7acca75a31-585	Madam President, I would like As to whether we will use it in Sweden or not, we have not put our foot down, I would say. But it feels like the question really requires a long and own discussion. The technical solution needs to be developed, and that is the mission of the Digitalisation Authority. You should also put in the vaccine pass. Then we need to look at the forms of how it is to be done. It's about putting in a PCR test. Is anyone going to do it, any time, any number of times and so on? There are some such issues that are not on the Digitisation Authority. These are issues that we need to resolve, quite simply. But again: Our assessment has been that the Authority will have the technical solution ready on 1 June. I say this only because it is actually Anders Ygeman who is sitting on the details of the matter. The date set by the EU and the Commission is still 26 June. This is due to the fact that they have much later holidays around Europe. Let's start a little early. But we will come back, quite simply, to the matter. We intend to ensure that Swedes have the same conditions and opportunities to travel and move in Europe as other Europeans.
i-030bef7acca75a31-588	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for Defence what considerations are the basis for the decision not to prioritise vaccination of personnel in international operations, what assessment the Minister of Defence makes regarding the need to prioritise vaccination for Armed Forces personnel working in socially important and vulnerable positions, whether the Minister of Defence has acted to get Armed Forces personnel vaccinated before foreign service or service in vulnerable positions among covids in Sweden and whether the Minister of Defence intends to take any measures to ensure that Armed Forces personnel are vaccinated promptly. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Allow me to begin with the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces' employees are doing an incredibly important job and that very great efforts are being made by state, authorities and regions to ensure that vaccination work is carried out as quickly as possible. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Public Health Agency has developed a priority order for vaccinations in Sweden consisting of four phases. The purpose of prioritising certain groups is first to provide protection to those who are most likely to become seriously ill or die in covid-19 and to those who are at risk of infecting such groups. The vaccination work is well underway in the regions, and several regions have now begun the fourth and last but also the largest phase, which includes persons aged 18 to 59 and who were not prioritised in the previous phases. The Swedish Armed Forces' commitments in international military operations continue during the pandemic, and today there are a number of hundred people present in countries affected by war and conflict. The seconded staff often find themselves in particularly vulnerable situations, with difficulties in following anti-infectious measures and keeping a distance. In addition, there is a risk that seconded personnel will spread infection in the country in which they operate. Against this background, the UN, the EU, NATO and partner countries, among other things, have submitted requests and requests for the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel to be vaccinated against covid-19. The government sees that it is of the utmost importance that deployed personnel in military operations can carry out their missions in accordance with the expectations they have and that they can do so in a safe manner to reduce the risk of infection spreading in the country in which they operate. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel participating in international military operations can be offered vaccination against covid-19. The mission shall continue until the regions themselves are able to arrange for the vaccination of this group.
i-030bef7acca75a31-594	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have made a very important decision in this House. We often make very important decisions, but in this case we send people on foreign missions from time to time. We send our soldiers to Mali, Afghanistan, Iran and several countries on very important and difficult missions. We're sending them out to make peace-keeping operations and humanitarian operations. We're about to send 130 new people to Mali. Mali is one of the most dangerous countries in the world. There are quite often car bombs there. They're nocturnal attacks. It's pretty hot out there. When I was there, there was very little water. I know that every person who was down there had to do a maximum of two button pushes in the shower every 24 hours. We equip these people with training and equipment but not with vaccines. I think it's strange. Now I am pleased that the Minister is standing here and telling us what we also heard in the news on Monday: that the decision has been made to vaccinate the personnel of the Swedish Armed Forces if they are going on a mission abroad. The question is why it has not been done before. Is it because the UN has made an appeal that the government has been alerted to this? In fact, was it that the government forgot about the soldiers who are going to foreign service? Did they forget that they needed to be equipped even with a vaccine? As the Minister was aware, the aim is to give priority to certain groups that are most at risk of becoming seriously ill or dying in covid-19. Yes, they are not far ahead in the vaccination program in Mali, for example. It's a pretty big risk when you go there. So you leave your loved ones, your families and your friends to make huge contributions in Sweden's name. We'll be grateful for that. But I do not really think that they are to be thanked for not vaccinating them. I find it embarrassing. It is almost shameful, in fact, that the government has done nothing before. We also have the soldiers who are already out and who will come home. During an effort, you go home on a so-called leave. It is very long quarantine time in Sweden but also when you come down to the camp. Having a very long quarantine period for a gang that goes back and forth gives a very bad operational effect, which is unfortunate, because it will not be so credible for us Swedes. You also don't get very popular at the camp when you come down and don't have vaccinated staff. Nevertheless, the UN has urged Sweden to vaccinate, just as it has recommended all other countries to do.
i-030bef7acca75a31-600	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell, of course, wants to make the same speech as the idea was before I gave my answer. The Minister of Defence would have been able to agree much better and could have had a dialogue about the situation in foreign missions. I cannot, but of course this is important. It matters very much to us that the UN, the EU, NATO and others call for and demand that each country have been vaccinated, because it cannot be vaccinated on the spot. That is also the decision we have taken. Basically, it is very important that we have the order of priority. I think Alexandra Anstrell is very much in agreement with this. There are groups who themselves think they should go ahead. They're very anxious. They have important social occupations and so on. But we basically have a priority in Sweden for vaccination that is about those who have a risk of severe disease and a high risk of death if they suffer from covid-19. That has been the starting point. But foreign missions are special. There's not really a chance to go home and vaccinate. The Swedish Armed Forces also believe that they have all the conditions and possibilities to arrange for the transport of vaccines themselves in order to be able to give dose 2 in the manner recommended. Therefore, the government has decided to give the Swedish Armed Forces the opportunity to deal with those who are going on a mission abroad with a number of hundred doses. That's the answer to the question.
i-030bef7acca75a31-604	Madam President, I would like I'm a little worried. It feels like the Minister is talking about the system going ahead of man, and we really can't have it. Of course, there is a order of priority, and it is important. But there must also be a basic idea to include all the different types that we have in Sweden. There, those who are going on a mission abroad should be prioritised and have been prioritised in the past. The question remains: have you missed it, or have you ignored it? I have asked questions in my interpellation, Madam President, about the considerations underlying the decision not to give priority to the vaccination of staff in international efforts. Actually, I don't feel I'm getting an answer to that. I am delighted, as I said in my previous speech, that the government took this decision on Monday. I'm sorry it didn't come sooner, but enough about it. Now is the decision. But why has it not been given priority in the past? It is, in fact, an important issue. I have also asked if the Minister has acted to get the Swedish Armed Forces personnel vaccinated before working abroad or serving in vulnerable positions among covidsick in Sweden. I must nevertheless interpret the Minister's reply as saying that the Government has made no effort whatsoever to do so. We also have armed forces personnel here at home who are making enormous efforts. They run ambulance transports and help with sampling, such as Operation Gloria. I visited them in Gothenburg last summer. It was a fantastic effort to make rapid, major efforts in the field of sampling. Why aren't they vaccinated? I'm thinking they're still in a vulnerable position when they move among maybe a lot of infected people. I wonder whether the Minister intends to do something about this. Can even those who are supposed to remain in Sweden and who make fantastic contributions here get vaccines, and that is the most urgent thing? There are regions that have different priorities in phase 4, so this should give priority to the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel. Madam President, I would like Not long ago, three people were injured in Mali. Thankfully, they survived, and we are grateful for their efforts and those of everyone else down there. Now we have very good, own medical care with us to Mali, but what happens when it is not enough, when there are not enough resources and you need help in place? So we have sent down soldiers who are not vaccinated. Should they then have to go to another hospital where they may not have the same resources as we usually have in Sweden? It's not a little that the government exposes these soldiers to. As I said earlier, it is soldiers who go away and leave family and friends for Sweden, for peacekeeping and humanitarian operations. Some even write letters to their families with instructions as to what will happen if they come home in a coffin. We're still at home, safe with food and drink, and we can shower for as long as we want. The question is why the Minister and the Government have not acted so that the Armed Forces personnel who leave could have received vaccines much earlier.
i-030bef7acca75a31-612	Madam President, I would like I explained the order of priority. There may be reason to do so, because if we had not had a specific order of priority, we would have been able to vaccinate with completely different conditions. Perhaps we had been vaccinated from various socially important professions, some other categories or first come first served. There are many varieties you can choose. I have described how Sweden has chosen to have its order of priority, which is why no exceptions have been made in essence. I also explained the government's decision to exempt the military personnel in international military operations from vaccination, not least because the EU, UN, NATO and partner countries have made demands and requests for each country to vaccinate its personnel. We do not intend to make other exceptions for the Swedish Armed Forces. However, I know that there are now many within the Swedish Armed Forces who vaccinate themselves in phase 4. This also applies to teachers in schools, police officers and firefighters – I do not really want to start a list, because I realise that I will miss important professions. We also have everyone who works in elderly care, who drives buses and other public transport, we have members of parliament and many others. It's kind of an impossible discussion. Everyone is needed in the profession and the position you have. The exception we have made concerns those who go and participate in international military operations. In the first place, it is Mali that will apply in the future, what Alexandra Anstrell has also described the conditions and circumstances surrounding. But if the question is whether we should also let others in the Swedish Armed Forces take the lead, the answer is that in Sweden you have the opportunity to vaccinate yourself based on the n priority group you are part of and in the n region where you live.
i-030bef7acca75a31-616	Madam President, I would like I understand very well the order of priority, but it is still good that Lena Hallengren describes it several times. Phase 2 includes, for example, health care personnel. Phase 3 includes persons with permits that involve difficulties in following the advice on disease control measures. Then I wonder: Does the Minister not think that the Armed Forces personnel who volunteer to work as ambulance drivers or drive iva-patients should be included there? Is it only if you are employed by a region, or how should I interpret the Minister? We cannot identify exactly who belongs in a certain order of priority. It's understandable. But I still wonder, and I have not actually received an answer to that question, whether the Swedish Government has missed our Swedish soldiers in foreign service or whether they have just been ignored. I also wonder, about the soldiers who are out now, if the Minister does not agree that there will be a very poor operational effect in an operation if you are to be quarantined and not be able to do anything for six weeks every time you do a rotation. How has the government allowed this to happen? As I was in the past, you are equipping these soldiers with training, equipment and a lot of other things, but not with vaccines. I am nothing but delighted that the government made this decision on Monday, but the question is why it has not done so before. And does the Minister really not intend to do anything about those who work in health care in Sweden here at home?
i-030bef7acca75a31-621	Madam President, I would like I told you that the order of priorities will be followed otherwise and that we do not intend to make other changes. Interpreting whether or not someone is part of a group is not a matter for me or for the government, but rather the regions and the Public Health Authority, possibly in dialogue. Then I think I have replied quite a few times that the UN, the EU, NATO and the partner countries have both demanded and wanted each country to vaccinate its own staff. That is the main reason why we have done so too, I would say. We have seen that need, and it is above all those who are going to Mali who are the first to do so. Then, of course, the hope is that everyone will be given the opportunity to vaccinate. I would like to point out that very many regions are, in principle, in phase 4, where most people are able to vaccinate. If you are not now, you will soon be, and this applies whether you work in the Swedish Armed Forces or elsewhere.
i-030bef7acca75a31-623	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me why the Swedish Government has failed to comply with the parliamentary decision to recognise the genocide in 1915, what the government means by the question being extremely complex and whether I stand by the word that what happened was a mass assault. There is no doubt that terrible abuses were committed against the Armenian community and other minorities in the decaying Ottoman Empire. Divorces from 1915 testify to merciless cruelty. There is no doubt whatsoever about this. I have great respect and understanding for the issue and the commitment it brings. We follow the question continuously. In 2015, the Government commissioned Stockholm Cent re for International Law and Justice to investigate approaches and names to historical mass assaults. D the report by the European Parliament shows that government statements establishing historical facts in connection with historical mass abuse are not entirely unproblematic. Questions about how a government should call mass abuse in the past are complex and contain several legal and political aspects. Since the Holocaust, international courts have known only crimes in Rwanda and former Yugoslavia as genocide. This is one reason why very few governments are making statements about the historical mass assaults. I would like to remind you that the attitude of the Swedish Government does not differ from that of most other governments in the EU. Only four governments have officially expressed their views on how to label the events of 1915, despite the fact that in many EU countries there are resolutions in parliaments. This shows the complexity of the issue. The word mass abuse is a collective term for very serious abuses and violations of human rights. The corresponding term in English is mass atrocities. This language is commonly used to describe this type of event and is not about reducing the terrible deeds committed in 1915. It is important that we remember and learn from the dark chapters of our history in order to prevent repetition. The question of mass assaults in the disintegrating Ottoman Empire should be dealt with in a way that promotes dialogue. This work by the government is by no means finished.
i-030bef7acca75a31-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. This is an urgent debate, not least in view of the fact that it has not been very long since the anniversary of the terrible genocide. Many people in Sweden have lost relatives in the genocide. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister says that there is no doubt that mass assaults were committed and that they were terrible. At the same time, however, I note that the Foreign Minister actively chooses not to use the concept of genocide. That is precisely what is a bit interesting, not least because the Social Democrats as a party have decided to recognise this genocide. When they were in opposition in the Swedish parliament, they also chose, together with the other opposition, to address an announcement to the then alliance government to recognise the genocide in 1915. The current Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, also promised Social Democratic voters in Södertälje, many of whom belong to the peoples affected, that the genocide would be recognised in government positions. Madam President, I would like I understand that many are disappointed that this has not happened. The question also became particularly topical when the Minister of Justice, social democrat Morgan Johansson, went out and talked about banning denial of the Holocaust. This is also a terrible event. I think we should be able to call it what it is. A shovel is a shovel. This is a genocide. I don't see what the problem is. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to ask Ann Linde what makes it so complicated that we cannot call the incident a genocide, as it is de facto.
i-030bef7acca75a31-633	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that this, as Markus Wiechel says, is an issue that is very important to many, not least many people who live and live in Sweden. Let me be clear that the government has never reduced or denied the indescribable suffering of Armenians and other ethnic groups, such as Assyrians/Syrians, Chaldeans and Greeks, in the decaying Ottoman Empire. Both reports from the Swedish Embassy in Constantinople and contemporary research at that time testify to an incredible number of people who were murdered, deported or forced to flee their homes. A significant part of the Ottoman Christian population was indiscriminately murdered. The accounts of what happened are terrible. These are historical facts on which there is no doubt. We must learn from history and ensure that these crimes are never repeated. The government strives for justice for all who have been affected and continue to suffer from armed conflicts and mass assaults. Access to justice and accountability are clear priorities in our foreign policy. These ambitions characterise our work in international and intergovernmental organisations such as the EU, the UN and the OSSE. Since the establishment of the International Criminal Court, the ICC, Sweden has also been a strong advocate of the Court and its mission. The establishment of the ICC marked a breakthrough in long-standing international efforts to secure individual accountability for serious international crimes. It is up to the courts to determine whether a person has committed a crime. In some cases, as in Rwanda and former Yugoslavia, mass assaults in modern times have been followed by extensive judicial investigations, and international courts have designated the crimes as genocide. As for the mass assaults in the Ottoman Empire, there is no international court or tribunal that has jurisdiction over the events. Legal responsibility issues are difficult when more than 100 years have passed. These are important reasons for our position and certainly also a reason why there are so few governments making the official statement, despite the fact that a number of parliaments, including the Swedish Parliament, have spoken on the matter. Only four governments in the EU have officially expressed their views on how to label the events of 1915. The government's approach does not differ, either from our Nordic neighbours or from most EU countries.
i-030bef7acca75a31-638	Madam President, I would like Yes, what has happened is historical facts. That's what the Secretary of State himself says. What I would like to know is what has actually happened to the Social Democrats and to the government, which consists of two parties which actually addressed an announcement to the previous government to acknowledge this. What has changed the picture? Why do people suddenly choose not to call it genocide? Why do you suddenly choose to call it mass assault? Sure, mass assault sounds terrible. But to be honest, mass assault may just as well be what mischievous young people are doing in Kungsträdgården in Stockholm. It is also mass abuse in many cases. But this is something much worse. This deserves to be called what it really is – a genocide. It was directed at specific ethnic groups, not least the Armenian population. What makes it so complicated that Sweden cannot acknowledge the genocide while US President Joe Biden can admit it on the anniversary?
i-030bef7acca75a31-641	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous speeches, it is a very complicated issue. The government is also taking this very seriously and is following the issue continuously. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, the government commissioned an in-depth study to investigate the approach and designation of historical mass abuse. The study shows that government statements establishing historical facts are not entirely unproblematic. The concept of mass abuse is a collective term for very serious abuses and violations of human rights. The word was used, among other things, in the investigation carried out on behalf of the government during the last term of office. The government has consistently used this word during the two terms of office. It is a concept that reflects the extent and seriousness of the terrible events we are talking about. In English, it is called mass atrocities. If so, what Markus Wiechel refers to is called mass abuses. These are two completely different things. As far as I know, mass abuses are not used in international law. However, this is done with mass atrocites. It is primarily historians and other researchers, not politicians, who should describe what has happened in history and how different events should be called. It is important that we stand up for academic freedom and allow historians and researchers to draw their own conclusions and make their names. Free research and free search for knowledge is necessary to create understanding for victims of abuse and create better conditions for preventing new abuse. The Government welcomes independent research and other initiatives that promote increased knowledge of historical mass abuse. On the question of mass assaults in the Ottoman Empire, an important aspect is that those who today are affected by or affect events relate to the issue in a responsible manner. During my visit to Ankara last October, I said directly to Turkey's Foreign Minister Çavuşo中lu that we all have a responsibility to learn from our history. The government wants to promote understanding and dialogue in these countries, not least in Turkey and between Turkey and Armenia. This is done through various forms of action, in bilateral dialogues, through the EU and other multi-forums and through research promotion. This work by the government is by no means finished. In 2018, for example, we supported Armenia – Turkey Normalisation Process, a project that promotes dialogue and collaboration between Armenian and Turkish civil society organisations and is also funded by the EU. Another example is our support to the Hrant Dink Foundation, which, among other things, has helped to establish the first Armenian Institute in Turkey and which works for dialogue and consensus between Turks and Armenians. Only last year we supported one of the organisation's projects with 200 000 SEK.
i-030bef7acca75a31-649	Madam President, I would like The government is following the question. But I still don't really see what you're supposed to be following. What is really unclear? We know exactly what happened during this period. There are historical facts on the table. If it is the case that the United States, which is perhaps the most powerful country in the world, can choose to admit this for what it actually was, a genocide, I do not see how it can be so complicated for the Swedish government to do the same. Another aspect, which I have already mentioned, is that the government has now announced a ban on the denial of the Holocaust. Is it all of a sudden all right that we in Sweden have a Social Democratic-led government that wants to ban denial of the Holocaust but at the same time deny this genocide itself? I don't know how it works.
i-030bef7acca75a31-651	Madam President, I would like The government's approach to these despicable acts does not differ in any particular way from that of most other countries in Europe. Sweden belongs to the vast majority of countries that have not made official statements at government level on how to name events. The question of how a government should call mass abuse in the past is complex and contains both legal and political aspects. With regard to the issue of banning the denial of the Holocaust, this is an investigation that the government will set up in order to have a clearer implementation of parts of the EU's so-called racism framework decision. Sweden has implemented the Framework Decision's requirements for criminalisation through the crimes against ethnic groups, sedition and illegal threats. The European Commission considers that Swedish legislation does not meet the requirements of the Framework Decision. The government has replied to the Commission that we believe that Swedish law meets the requirements. However, there may be reason to clarify the legislation regarding, among other things, denial of the Holocaust. This issue touches on the balance of freedom of expression. A parliamentary committee should do this. We are now signing directives for this. Terrible mass assaults took place against Christian minorities in the decaying Ottoman Empire. The memory of these events and these sacrifices must be kept alive. The government attaches great importance to it being able to be discussed freely and openly both in Sweden and abroad. Talks and dialogue between stakeholders are crucial to managing this dark chapter in history. It is the government's view that this work must continue to be done in a responsible manner. We will continue this work.
i-030bef7acca75a31-654	Madam President, I would like Alexander Christiansson has asked me whether subsidised employment is an effective way of tackling unemployment. I would like to emphasise once again that research shows that subsidised employment is an effective way of getting people who are less closely linked to the labour market into work. It is important to target subsidised employment properly, so that people who still had a job do not take part in the efforts. In the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, it has studied those who take part in subsidised employment and found that the characteristics of the participants are well in line with the target group, i.e. those who take part in the subsidies are to a large extent individuals with a weak position in the labour market and with a high risk of long-term unemployment. The proportion of people who get a post-employment job varies between different subsidised jobs. This depends on the target group for the aid, the employers who receive the aid and how the Public Employment Service works with the aid. For people who are particularly distant from the labour market, a chain of efforts may be needed before they can find unsubsidised work. Extra services are targeted, for example, at those furthest from the labour market. It is reasonable that many of those who have had an auxiliary service need other measures or other types of subsidised employment before they can get an unsubsidised job. It is true that the proportion of those who, after some subsidised employment, directly receive unsubsidised work is relatively low. The proportion of people who move to some form of work after taking part in an auxiliary or introductory job has also decreased since the outbreak of the ongoing coronapdemine due to the generally deteriorating labour market situation. At the same time, the result, as has been said, differs considerably between different types of subsidised employment. For example, the share of new start-up jobs for unsubsidised work was between 31 and 37 per cent in the period 2014– 2019. The share fell to 20 per cent in 2020 due to the ongoing coronapandemine. The government's assessment is that labour market policies, including subsidised employment, contribute to improvements in the labour market in several ways. The individual will be strengthened in his/her own work and salary. E xtra services and introductory jobs can also strengthen job opportunities for not least foreign-born women. Extra services have contributed to a more balanced gender balance in subsidised employment. Extra services also serve as a way into important welfare professions where there is currently a shortage of labour.
i-030bef7acca75a31-662	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Last February, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs visited Australia to study the country's way of working with labour market policy, much because Australia has been one of the models of the reform that we are currently engaged in in the Public Employment Service. It was a rewarding journey in many ways, not least in terms of the way they have built up their match based on private actors. It's a concept of success. Now, of course, there are major differences between Sweden and Australia, not least linked to migration policy. Australia received 18 750 quota refugees last year through UNHCR, which would represent less than 5 000 quota refugees for Sweden based on population. They have severely limited the number of asylum seekers. There are very few people who can stay in the country if they do not come through UNHCR. On the other hand, a large proportion of migrant workers are taken in, which is carefully selected according to skills and requirements. High demands are placed on those entering the country. According to the Department of Home Affairs, which deals with issues related to immigration and integration, it is very difficult even for Australia to get new arrivals into work, even though they have a significantly lower share. According to the People Plus organization, Australia spends 20 percent of what Sweden, according to the OECD, spends on the labour market. But this happens with a much better result than in Sweden. Perhaps that is why we have chosen to use Australia as one of the models. Now I know that the January parties do not see Australia as an example when it comes to migration policy, even if I do. Nevertheless, it is important to understand that the growing unemployment is due to something. Most people understand that migration is, to some extent, in that explanatory model. Australia avoids – this is interesting – working with subsidised measures for immigrants and the long-term unemployed. I asked them why they were avoiding it. They feel that they simply do not see an effect corresponding to the cost of subsidised employment. They do not think it is profitable to work in subsidised employment. Unlike Australia and the vast majority of countries in the world, Sweden is very good at working with subsidised employment. I find this exciting to mention here today with the Minister for Labour. Madam President, I would like The Minister chooses to highlight the new start jobs. The reason for this is that that measure has produced a better result than the other measures. If you take all the other measures of subsidised employment, 8% of those who go through subsidised employment get a real job. So it is 92% who do not get a job. In his reply, the Minister says that just over 34% get an unsubsidised job after the start of the job. For me, 66% don't get a job. Maybe I don't really understand what's good about it. For me it is very difficult to understand, perhaps because I have been an entrepreneur my whole life and think a lot about how to invest. If you put in 5 to 6 billion a year to get more than 6,000 people a job, the question is: Where do the other 14,000 go? Are they going back into support? How's that good? I would like the Minister to explain this to me. I think that subsidised jobs may also be a little used to refine the statistics and get new arrivals who have come to Sweden away from unemployment statistics. Is that right?
i-030bef7acca75a31-672	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the coronapandemy has affected the Swedish labour market to a very large extent. We will also have to live with the effects of the coronapndemine for some time to come. That is also why we need to take very strong action, as we do. At the same time, I would like to point out that today we have a situation in the Swedish labour market where we have over 120 000 vacancies – if you go in and look at Platsbanken today. We also have for the past two months a situation where more people go from unemployment to work. Many also go to education, and I believe that even more people need to do so. Today, more people go from unemployment to work than sign up for Arbetsförmedlingen. There are many light points. In the parts of the country where I come from, there is now a new industrialisation with a great need to employ thousands of people in the new basic industries that are developing. At the same time, we have a growing long-term unemployment and people who are very far removed from the labour market. What we need to ensure is that we have a wide range of tools that the Public Employment Service can use to provide the right support based on the needs of people. This means that for some people who are now unemployed, there is no need for action as before. They'll be fine on their own. They have a high level of competence and broad experience. For some, labour market training or some form of intervention is needed, and for others, a more sustained and vigorous effort is needed. It can be about education, to have the opportunity to study upper secondary education. But it is also for some individuals to take part in subsidised employment. The reason why not everyone goes directly to jobs from subsidised employment is that it is people who are very far from the labour market. They need much more solid support. That is what I, as Minister of Labour and Social Democrats, think is very important. We must have a labour market policy that meets the needs of our employers to employ the right skills but also provides the right support to people. We know there that subsidised employment is important. They are an important step on the road to work. Maybe they're not exactly. People may also need other efforts. For this reason, it is important that the Employment Service continues to have subsidised employment in its toolbox in order to deliver and ensure that we can increase employment.
i-030bef7acca75a31-679	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I still think it has a little bit to do with the statistics. I don't think I'm the only one who suspects that sometimes it has something to do with it. This has nothing to do with Corona, because this has been going on for a long time. Already since 1996, the government after government has thrown a lot of tax money into the lake, in my opinion. Today's industry developed a tragic list of some of these measures: In 1996, work placements were launched. It was trainees who were subsidised for six months. The evaluation of the operation showed that the measure did not significantly increase employability. In 1998, employment support was received. There were subsidies of 50 per cent of the salary in one year. That evaluation showed that the measure had a more evasive effect and that real jobs were replaced by fake jobs. In 2000 came the job coaches. The evaluation showed that the chances of real jobs increased by 2 percent. In 2007 came the entry-level jobs. It was an 80% subsidy on salary. The evaluation showed that the measure increased the chances of real jobs by 7%.
i-030bef7acca75a31-687	In 2010, the paid starters arrived. It was a bonus system to get new arrivals to work. The evaluation showed that the measure had no effect, but it created incentives for fraud. In 2014, the trainee jobs came. Promises would create 30,000 new jobs, once again through standby jobs and wage subsidies. The evaluation showed that 30,000 jobs became 100 jobs. This is what you keep doing. After 2014, this has continued constantly. Again, I don't know. What is the agenda with it can really only be answered by the Minister and the government. But for me, it's very hard to understand. I have been in the Riksdag since 2018. Perhaps I have seen this from a different perspective than as a politician. I have often asked myself why poor investment continues. I think unsearched of Albert Einstein's famous words that the definition of madness is to do the same thing again and again and expect other results. On the other hand, I can understand why the government chooses to continue with this. Nevertheless, it must be demonstrated that we are trying to solve the problems of the integration debt that has been created. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, there is every opportunity to make a living for those who want to. For those who cannot, the state will provide meaningful employment through Samhall, which we will debate a little later this evening, or private actors who have specialized in groups with special needs. I believe that Sweden does not set high enough standards. I believe that people have become dependent on subsidies in Sweden. I mean, there are bad attitudes towards simple jobs that make grants more worthwhile than working. I get that signal when I visit entrepreneurs who have easy jobs to offer but who do not get the labour force. There will be a paradox in this. It is also the case that a large proportion of the long-term unemployed do not know the Swedish language and do not have an education. Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister's aim was for Sweden to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Now we have the highest. I have noted that the Prime Minister and the Government now want to talk about employment rather than unemployment. Listen here: People who have done an hour's work during a measuring week are counted as employed. I think it's misleading. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is serious about the employment rate being a credible tool for describing who is working and supporting themselves.
i-030bef7acca75a31-697	Madam President, I would like I can start by answering the last question. We have also made some changes in our unemployment and labour market statistics in Sweden as a result of changes in EU framework legislation so that we can have comparable statistics. I think that's important. With regard to subsidised employment and the intentions of the government, I would like to emphasise once again, Madam President, that we have a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market. It's tough for a lot of people, but the future is bright. We see that very many employers are planning to hire. We have major investments in the whole of our elongated country with a new industrialisation going on. However, there is no doubt that those furthest from the labour market have an especially difficult situation. That is why we need to ensure that we have more training in labour market policy. This is why we from the government have given several different assignments to, among other things, Arbetsförmedlingen to increase transitions to regular education. We have made it possible for people to study while maintaining their activity support. From now on this summer, we will ensure that those who are part of the Job and Development Guarantee, the long-term unemployed, are better able to study part-time so that they can improve their skills. But we also offer a range of different types of subsidised employment. It is important that we have a wide toolbox. I would also like to point out that it is not stopped. The government is also carrying out very important structural reforms in the labour market. One of the things that we are moving into a final phase is to take care of the parties' agreement on security and transition. It will increase the conditions for matching and for companies to find the right skills. Another issue that is very important is the start-up jobs. They will respond precisely to what the honourable Member said at the outset, namely the needs of companies and the willingness to employ. The establishment jobs are based on a partnership agreement which states that it will cost 8 400 SEK a month, and this is aimed at newly arrived and foreign born. We are reforming the unemployment fund in order for more to be included. It gradually qualifies into insurance, and it is also a stairway out to ensure that this is a conversion insurance. The government has a lot of work going on precisely to take action on structural reforms to ensure that the functioning of the labour market is even better. It is also a question of ensuring that those furthest from the labour market really get the right support in order to be able to enter. This isn't always a quick fix. We are now conducting the intensive year starting from April. It is a matter of having intensive efforts in one year to get into work. But for everyone it is not possible to get into work after a year, but it takes even more. This may require subsidised employment, training on it, some form of traineeship afterwards and another job before you can then support yourself and have a permanent establishment in the labour market. But we must never give up on people. We must ensure that we have a policy aimed at people and provide the right support so that everyone can have a job of their own and with what the freedom of their own pay entails.
i-030bef7acca75a31-709	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you, Minister, for your answer. A lot of what the minister is talking about here, I can sign up to. What I object to linked to the labour market measures that governments back in time have chosen to invest in are precisely the kind of extremely bad measures that cost a huge amount of money and which produce very little results. That's where I think you might have to think about it sometime, because it's tax money we're dealing with. Is this well-invested money, or are we going to work in another way? I think a lot about the folk home and really about the whole labour movement. I think a lot about doing your duty, demanding your right, and all these things that somewhere built the social contract that my grandfather was happy to talk about in Gothenburg and in the port of Gothenburg. He talked about how important it was not to exploit the state and so on. What we see is, unfortunately, that much of this mentality is cracking in Sweden today, and that makes me worried – genuinely worried. I hear how companies talk and how people talk about that you no longer have this confidence in the state. Then I mean, it's safe to go. I have also heard the Prime Minister mention the old slogan, doing your duty, demanding your right. I agree with that, but then politics must also be in line with this. You have to make demands, you have to challenge and you have to expect from people who have come here or who have lived here for a long time that they will also deliver something back to the state before they can take part of all this that we have. This is what makes me a little worried. The Minister has already answered the question of what measures exist in addition to subsidised employment, which costs so many billions. I thank you for the debate, and I think this is an interesting issue that requires discussion.
i-030bef7acca75a31-715	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we have a labour market policy that delivers the skills that our companies and our employers need so that they can develop their businesses. It is like the very essence of Sweden being able to be a welfare country that we have companies that are doing well and that they are hiring. I am pleased to say that we are seeing huge investments right now. We will need to discuss how we get more people to move up to northern Sweden, for example, because there are billions of investments there. These are fantastic investments that give Sweden new opportunities in the form of more new, green and better jobs. But labour market policy is also about giving people the right support to get to work. We must never give up on people there, and that is why it is so important that we have many different types of efforts. For me as a social democrat, it is obvious to say this: it is a matter of making one's duty, of making oneself employable, of participating, of making an effort and of accepting the opportunities offered in terms of education and other types of action. But it's also about being entitled to support – not standing there alone. That is what is also such an important part of the construction of the folk home, as it was referred to here. For us Social Democrats, it goes without saying that if you lose your job, you do not stand alone. Then you should have good unemployment insurance so that you do not have to sell houses and homes and continue to buy the football shoes for the children. Support should also be provided for training or actions that lead to closer jobs.
i-030bef7acca75a31-720	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how the cost of SEK 140 billion will be financed, how many jobs the government estimates the LAS deal will provide and what the estimated socio-economic benefits are of a cost of SEK 140 billion for taxpayers. The Negotiating and Cooperation Council PTK, IF Metall, the Association of Municipal Workers and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have signed a principle agreement on security, transition and employment protection. On 4 December 2020, the parties jointly asked the Government to modernise labour law in accordance with the agreement in principle. Through their historic agreement, the parties have taken a major responsibility for developing the Swedish labour market model. The agreement takes a holistic approach to providing adaptability and flexibility for companies and security and transition for employees. This means that we are better equipped to deal with structural change and a changing labour market. This is also important for Swedish competitiveness. The basic agreement on security, transition and employment protection shall be seen as a whole. In order to be able to handle the issues properly, the Government Office has decided on three internal letter investigations to implement the Party Agreement. The studies have the task of proposing how the agreement of principle is to be implemented in the areas of employment protection and related a-casse issues and of proposing how the agreement of principle is to be implemented in line with the parties' proposals in the parts relating to a new public conversion organisation and the parts relating to a new and parallel public study grant. The starting point for each task is to develop proposals for implementation that are economically efficient and cost-effective. It also includes the presentation of the public financial and socio-economic impact of the proposals. I look forward to further analysing the proposals of the investigations. The government will come back on these issues.
i-030bef7acca75a31-725	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In 2020, Madam President, between 20 and 64 years of age, 790 242 full-year people, as Economic facts put it, were supported by grants. This is 13 per cent of Sweden's population aged 20-64. 790 242, Madam President – that is what this debate should be about. How do we get more people to work? How do we ensure a better functioning of the labour market? That is why I have put this interpellation, which deals with the cost of the parties' LAS agreement. It is located outside public; anyone who wants to read the agreement can go into, for example, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise's website. It clearly states what has been agreed. I have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to count on the proposals that lie ahead. We can see that the change that the Government is talking about costs about 1.9 billion. The free-year, on which agreement has been reached, and as Transport's representative called the free-year light, costs a total of EUR 17 billion. The increase in the ceiling of unemployment insurance costs about 1 billion. That totals about 20 billion a year. To this should be added the employee fund-like collective fund, which amounts to 62 billion. In the worst case, or the highest case, it could cost 140 billion. That is what I have asked questions about, namely these 20 billion. How will this be financed? Then, in his next speech, the Government will say that there is one thing in the budget, and that may be so. However, I suspect, Madam President, that for these 790 242 people – 13% of Sweden's population aged 20 – 64 – there must be some small idea with the Government and Government about how many jobs this 20 billion LAS agreement will provide. Otherwise, there are alternatives that could be used for 20 000 million– 20 billion – instead. And what is the profit if you go all in and say it costs 140 billion? What is the socio-economic gain? Madam President, I would like This is a huge change in the labour market that is under way. But it seems to happen in the hidden and in the quiet. It's sneaking around. It is the opposite of transparency and transparency, which the Minister has also received very strong criticism for both from employers' organisations and from business organisations. On Friday, Madam President, these three internal letter investigations were supposed to be presented – on 15 May. I think a lot of people were curious about that date. There were probably a lot of people who were curious and thought: How many jobs will there be? The echo revealed today, Madam President, that LO intends to call in its highest decision-making body. And just as a timing did not come these investigations that were due to be presented on 15 May last Friday but will come sometime in the future, perhaps at the end of May. I would like to know, Madam President, why these three investigations are not presented. And how many jobs does the minister think you'll get in a 20 billion-dollar LAS agreement?
i-030bef7acca75a31-735	Madam President, I would like LAS has been in need of modernisation for a long time. The Employment Protection Act often comes up as a reason why companies choose not to employ. Madam President, I would like As an entrepreneur with 10 to 15 employees, I know that this proposal will lead to fewer jobs, not more. I know how LAS works when you're a small company. Work exists and needs to be done. It cannot be that there should be work to occupy a person. That's the wrong focus. It is not the real tax money that is produced in that relationship. Let's talk about employment rates and extra services. The employment rate can be only one hour a week in an activity at the Employment Service or something else. It may be good for the individual, but it is not about the generation of the treasury but about the consumption of the treasury. Producers make viable companies with employees that drive the company forwards and upwards. Virtually all the entrepreneurs I know and talk to have encountered an employee who no longer produces and drives the company forwards and upwards, an employee who needs to be resolved from the company in order for both to be able to move on in separate ways. Therefore, it is to be modernised. The Moderates are behind the legislative proposal for a modernised LAS. Now the parties have settled, and something quite different is on the table. What would be cost-neutral has changed to something quite different, as my colleague Beckman said in his previous speech. The unemployment fund will be strengthened, increased, made compulsory and in future belong to the union. It is therefore the union that will in future raise the unemployment fund when the union sees the need for it. An improvement on the margin is on the table. In the past, it has been possible to exclude two people; now it will be increased to some extent, a little unclear how. The fixed-term employment is adjusted so that the qualification period is properly shortened and provides a safer employment for the employee. However, companies that often use fixed-term contracts are unlikely to employ more. It will raise the threshold for first job at the restaurant, first job for young people and first job for foreign born. They will find it more difficult to enter the labour market. The worst part of the LAS proposal, the most expensive and the most difficult to justify, is that the release light will show up. If you have worked for eight years, you should be entitled to eight months' leave at the expense of taxpayers. It is still unclear what is to be learned, whether it should be snipping or fly fishing, no matter what profession you have. It is called a upgrading of skills, but to what is lacking information. Madam President, I would like Is it reasonable for Sweden's taxpayers to pay for free-year light for employees to learn something the employee wants but who perhaps does not Entrepreneurship Sweden ask for?
i-030bef7acca75a31-743	Madam President, I would like If the interpellant thinks it is important to debate the jobs and how we create more jobs, he will be happy to write a special interpellation about it. What we are discussing now is the party agreement that is signed between the parties on the Swedish labour market. I have to say that the interpeller is speculating wildly about both one and the other. With all due respect, the statements made here in the speaker's chair are astounding: the parties have given up. The union will raise the unemployment fund. Friår light. In 2017, negotiations between the parties on the Swedish labour market began. Since then, a new main agreement has been negotiated, as well as changes in conversion, employment protection and unemployment insurance. These negotiations have resulted in two agreements in December 2020 – on the one hand, a main agreement governing the terms of collective agreements between the contracting parties and, on the other hand, an agreement in principle which is the common requirement of the parties for the changes in laws and regulations necessary for the adoption of the new main agreement. This is an agreement supported by a large majority of the organisations representing employers and companies, as well as trade unions and workers. The intention of the parties has always been to take a holistic approach to factors that can, in combination, create flexibility, adaptability and security in the labour market. The conditions negotiated respond to the challenges of today's labour market. They also equip the Swedish model for the future. These are conditions that will give employers flexibility and predictability and strengthen the employability and security of employees in the labour market. Overall, the reform means that we strengthen Swedish competitiveness and growth. As was said here, the government has set up three investigations to see how the partnership agreement can be implemented. The investigations will present their findings shortly. We are in a very important final phase. I will not be able to tell you today about the questions raised, because they are part of the mission of the investigations to analyse. However, I note that investment in both transition and job creation is absolutely necessary if we are to compete in an increasingly globalised labour market.
i-030bef7acca75a31-750	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for the Government's irritation at getting concrete questions when she does not want to give concrete answers, I will read the second question in my interpellation aloud: How many jobs does the government estimate for the LAS settlement? ..................................................... I will take it one more time, Madam President, slowly and clearly: ..................................................... That is why I called the Council of State to this House today. The government is ralliing that I should have made another interpellation. But, Madam President, just read inside. It is clear here, and it is a concrete question: how many jobs will the LAS agreement provide? Why, then, is this issue so important? Well, there are insiders in the labour market, and there are outsiders. In 2020, 790 242 full-year persons aged between 20 and 64 were supported by grants. That is 13% of that group, Madam President. This information comes from the Financial Facts. The Moderates have presented another study that says that 670 000 foreign born are not self-sufficient. It goes without saying, Madam President, that there is no social system or economy in the world that will eventually be able to finance such a large group that is excluded. That is why it is so relevant and interesting that the parties, unions and employers, have now made an agreement. I want to say that I love party agreements, and I think collective agreements are the best thing there is, because then you keep politics away, and union and employer take joint responsibility. The problem in this agreement is that unions and employers have been negotiating with each other on an agreement that a third party should pay for, and it is the Swedish taxpayer who should pay. According to Parliament's investigation service, it could be 140 billion that they should pay. Then we cannot say that the parties have made this agreement for real, because if they had done it for real, they would also have taken ugly financial responsibility, for example by agreeing on a free year within the limits of the pay gap. As far as I understand this agreement, the hard-tested taxpayers are going to pay what Transport calls free-year light. The date of 15 May was so interesting that it was then that the government would present the three internal letter investigations. But instead, Madam President, LO announced today that it should call together its highest decision-making body, and hips vips happened to be that the government postponed the three internal investigations that should have been presented on Friday. Madam President, I would like I do not think it is to show respect for everyone who works in Sweden that they do not do this in openness, in transparency and clearly so that everyone can follow this and see what they intend to agree on and what it should cost. Because someone is paying for this agreement. The paper Work wrote that it will cost 7 1⁄2 billion. Let's play with the idea that it'll be 7 1⁄2 billion. Then there must be an alternative cost of 7 1⁄2 billion. Instead of sending someone to fly fishing training for eight months, what could be done? It was one of the examples in DN's article. I ask again: how many jobs does the government estimate the LAS settlement will give?
i-030bef7acca75a31-760	Madam President, I would like There is talk of a holistic approach to the labour market. The Minister of Labour said earlier that a welfare country needs strong companies, and I agree. LAS has been difficult for many companies, and now the Minister for Labour mentions that we should strengthen the employee. I am thinking of all the seasonal workers who will have a stronger job. It will be more difficult for companies that are supposed to be strong in a welfare country. The government is making it increasingly difficult for companies that are to be estimated more than taxed and that provide jobs, tax revenues and the basis for all our welfare. Thresholds are rising, and this is becoming increasingly difficult for businesses. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Labour whether she believes that the proposal will lead to more or fewer jobs.
i-030bef7acca75a31-762	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that we can meet the challenges that we have seen in the labour market since before, namely the need on the part of employers to have greater flexibility and a need on the part of employees to be able to have greater security and better opportunities to change during a full working life. When we thus create security in the change that is taking place in the labour market, it also benefits the emergence of new jobs. This is what has been and is the backbone of the Swedish model, which means that we can combine good conditions for our companies and employers with good and safe conditions for the employees. That's the point here. As I said, Madam President, I will not be in this House today prior to the work of the investigations or speculating on the exact outcome or the effects we are looking at. We're just in the middle of an intense final phase with the investigations. There are major changes that are taking place where regulation texts are to be put in place, and I look forward to being able to present the whole at some point around the turn of the month. I would like to emphasise that this is not about proposals that politicians of a certain colour have put forward, but this is a reform package that has been supported by a large part of the labour market, both by companies and by employees. I protect the Swedish labour market model. I think we also need to see that we have a unique, successful model that has given our country a good ability to change. We have record few days of conflict. We should remember that last year, 2020, when it was a very serious and strained situation on the Swedish labour market and many companies were in crisis while some went better – the parties nevertheless managed to mark the whole labour market without a single day of conflict, and 3 million employees got their salaries. This is a real sign of strength for the Swedish model. We have also had real wage increases over the last 20 years. Madam President, I would like It is also a real statement of strength for the Swedish model when trade unions and employers continue to take responsibility for developing the Swedish labour market model as the labour market changes. I would like to emphasise once again that I welcome the historic agreement presented by the social partners.
i-030bef7acca75a31-767	Madam President, I would like I do not know if you can talk about a functioning labour market when 13% of the age range 20-64 is not present. There are 790 242 people. I saw a calculation from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise where the cost of this exclusion was estimated to be breathtaking 270 billion. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that we are at the bottom of Europe, that is, we have the highest unemployment rate, a runaway youth unemployment rate and a very strained situation. This means that each single crown used must of course have one single purpose: to get more in jobs, more in jobs and more in jobs. We had a meeting with the County Governor in my home county last week, and to Gävleborg we import hundreds of forest planters, because there are none of the unemployed in Gävleborg who want to forest plant, because it is not a high-tech job in Boden at a new hydrogen factory or a steel mill. So I think we have very big challenges with this. That is why, Madam President, I asked the question that would have been so easy to answer for the Government this evening, namely: how many jobs does the government estimate this LAS settlement will give? And perhaps the most important question is: What are the estimated socio-economic benefits of spending up to 140 billion of taxpayers' money? It was two simple questions. Nevertheless, the middlemost of my three questions that I raised in the interpellation must have been considered by the Minister for Labour. Please answer this now: How many jobs does the Minister think it will give?
i-030bef7acca75a31-772	Madam President, I would like I will shortly present all the investigations that we are in the final phase of completing. I look forward to doing that, and then the interpeller and all the others who are curious will, of course, receive answers. The labour market is changing rapidly as a result of globalisation, technological development and the green transition. We also know that some jobs are disappearing and that new jobs are added to the economy. In order for people to benefit from the new jobs and be employable, skills development is also required in a completely different way today than a number of years ago. This also means that we need a dynamic labour market that makes it possible to replenish and adapt throughout the working life so that employers can also benefit from the skills they need to develop their activities. The social partners have presented a broad agreement, which will strengthen Swedish growth, competitiveness and transition. I also hope that in the Swedish Parliament there will be a broad consensus and a broad majority to implement the important reforms for Sweden.
i-030bef7acca75a31-775	Madam President, I would like Alexander Christiansson has asked me if I share the view that Arbetsförmedlingen has used Samhall to hide new arrivals from unemployment statistics and how the government will rebuild confidence in Samhall over time. It is important that there is a high level of confidence in government efforts, including Samhall's activities. The state allocates significant amounts of money to help people with disabilities get into work, and it is important that these are used effectively. Part of strengthening trust in Samhall's operations is the measures taken by the government on the basis of the announcement adopted by the Riksdag regarding Samhall's mission. I do not agree with the claim that the Employment Service uses Samhall in such a way that new arrivals are hidden from unemployment statistics. In 2020, under 1 per cent of those assigned to Samhall were classified as new arrivals according to the Swedish Employment Service's statistics. On the other hand, a relatively large proportion of those assigned to Samhall born in a country other than Sweden. However, their compliance with the rules on who can be assigned cannot be determined by country of birth. Samhall is an important contribution for those most in need of support in labour market policy. Whether you are a native or a foreign person, a instructions to Samhall must only be given if you belong to the target group, i.e. job seekers whose work capacity is so reduced as a result of a disability that the person cannot get another job and whose needs cannot be met by other measures. In order for the jobs to be used properly, the government has taken a number of measures. The Government has recently decided on regulatory changes designed to clarify the regulatory framework for the instructions for protected work. In order to be assigned to sheltered work, the Government has clarified that a person's work capacity should be so reduced as to result from a disability that the person cannot get another job and that the person's needs cannot be met by other interventions. The Government has also given a number of assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen to review the instructions to Samhall. Firstly, the Public Employment Service is tasked with reviewing the definition and target level of priority groups so that those most in need are given the highest priority. Secondly, the Public Employment Service will review the coding of disabilities with reduced working capacity. Thirdly, Arbetsförmedlingen must follow up the instructions to Samhall to ensure that it is the intended target group that is assigned. Finally, Arbetsförmedlingen will review how to meet the dual needs of people with disabilities with a mother tongue other than Swedish. Need for efforts regarding knowledge of the Swedish language should be taken care of before a person is assigned to Samhall. It is also basic that the company and Arbetsförmedlingen comply with the assignments they have received. The government has high expectations of state-owned companies and wants them to act exemplaryly in their work with sustainable entrepreneurship. This includes a healthy and safe working environment as well as good and decent working conditions. Last year Samhall's ownership instructions were revised by the introduction of mission targets for dedicated employees and for the employment rate of employees in the community assignment. The owner conducts an ongoing dialogue on the company's work and development regarding health and safety at work. My view is that Samhall works continuously with the work environment and has a systematic work environment, but with these changes the government will be able to follow the issue better. The government has also recently decided to revise Samhall's ownership instructions on several points. It is stated that, in order to enable a broad supply of tasks adapted to the needs of different employees over time, the company should seek business opportunities in a number of industries. It is clarified that an increase in turnover aims to create a sufficient number of jobs. The government also removes the requirement for further structural changes in order to reduce production costs, but stresses the value of good cost control. The governance of value added growth is also abolished.
i-030bef7acca75a31-785	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The answer pleases me. The government is acting on many of the points where criticism has been made for a long time. Let me briefly refer to the story. Samhall was founded in 1980 when the Swedish economy looked different. Today we are in a service economy, which has partly changed the conditions for Samhall's mission. The goal has been to get 1 100 of the employees every year into real jobs, so to speak. There have historically had good results, which has been gratifying. In 2008, I myself participated in setting up a branch for a Stockholm-based temporary agency. The business idea was based on offering construction contracts in the manufacturing industry, subcontractors to Volvo and so on. I remember talking in the industry about Samhall's unfair competitive advantage. It was often a problem for us in the industry when we ran into Samhall. After that, I have worked in companies that have purchased construction services from Samhall, also linked to the manufacturing industry. I've seen that side of Samhall. Having said that, I have wanted to convey that I have seen Samhall from a few different angles during my career. Samhall's basic task is to offer employment to people with disabilities. Since during the 1980s they had a lot of their own product industry, it was perhaps easier to control the parts I mention in my interpellation. As the labour market has changed, we have seen how Samhall's activities have changed. Today there are many of the assignments in service professions and in other companies. But Samhall's basic mission is to give people with mental and physical disabilities the opportunity to get meaningful jobs. There Samhall's main task is to create developing jobs for people with documented disabilities. There I and the Swedish Democrats mean that Samhall is an important piece of the puzzle in the work of creating meaningful jobs, and that is why the criticism has become so serious when one with a simple googling can read so many testimonies from people who have been mistreated by Samhall. It is the opposite of the whole vision of Samhall, and of course it hurts to hear about it. Since I am an entrepreneur, I know that once a negative corporate culture has settled, it is very difficult to change it. Some professionals say that if it even goes, you really need to make structural changes at the bottom of a company in order to succeed in changing culture. Again, for us Samhall is an important pillar for precisely disabled people. This is shown not least in our budget, where we actually increase the funding for Samhall. I feel that we share this picture of Samhall and of what Samhall's basic mission is. However, although what the Minister said in his reply points in the right direction, it is certainly time to also put on the working gloves, roll up the sleeves and seriously clean up the problems that Samhall has developed for a very long time. This is to rebuild confidence. My question is why it has been so long for the government to address these issues when the problems have been known for so long.
i-030bef7acca75a31-794	Madam President, I would like During the spring, Samhall has received attention in several critical reviews and reports. I would very much like to emphasise that I welcome the fact that problems or shortcomings in the operation are highlighted, because if they do not come up on the table, it is difficult to do anything about them. It's very important– if there are problems, they should be on the table so that we can act from the political side and so that the leadership at Samhall can grab them. With regard to the question of instructions and whether it is the right target group that is assigned – it is, of course, a question that has been put to me by the honourable Member – I would first of all like to say that, as I said, we are taking several different measures to ensure that the right target group is assigned to Samhall. There should be no doubt about it. That is why we have clarified the regulatory framework regarding instructions for, among other things, protected work. We have also given a wide range of assignments to the Employment Service, as I have already explained in my response to the interpellation. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the assignment that the Swedish Employment Service has received regarding the situation where people have both a lack of knowledge of Swedish and a disability that entails reduced work capacity. The need for action to improve language skills should be addressed before being assigned to Samhall. The Arbetsförmedlingen will now review its working methods and processes to ensure that appropriate interventions are given to people with disabilities who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. Of course, people who have both disabilities and poor knowledge need support in order to get to work. One of our starting points is that lack of knowledge of the Swedish language should be counteracted early on, among other things to increase the possibility of work without other government efforts even when the person has a disability. It's very important. Everyone should be given support to get to work. Foreign born and natives, people with or without disabilities – all should receive the support they need on the basis of their specific conditions. It is therefore important for the government that the instructions to Samhall be correct, and we have therefore taken a series of measures to clarify and follow up these instructions. Now I look forward to the debriefing that Arbetsförmedlingen will do. I will look at what they have come up with on the basis of the missions that have been given and see if there is any reason to take further action on the part of the government.
i-030bef7acca75a31-801	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am glad to hear the answer again, because what has been asked for so long is precisely that these problems should be addressed and that action should be taken to resolve them. I guess that's where my question landed. Has it been the case that the Minister and the Government, Samhall's management and Arbetsförmedlingen's management have not been aware of these problems? Why else have they not acted before? It's not a new phenomenon. It is not a new problem, I mean, and it was to some extent on the basis of that aspect that the question was asked. Over the years I worked in the business community, the reputation of the city, if we put it that way, has been that many of the people who work at Samhall do not have disabilities. I have also talked to and asked questions to people who work at Samhall, not just in town but in companies near me. Often there is no disability. Then the question is, of course, how to end up in Samhall. Are shortcomings in the Swedish language an acceptable disability? That's where this discussion has started to roll. Everyone who works at Samhall should have a disability, that is said. But that is not the case today. It's just to go out in the real world and look. I find that very tragic. I believe that the Employment Service uses the disability codes in a highly questionable way. I have also talked to supervisors from Arbetsförmedlingen who say that there is actually some diffuse handling of this. For this reason, I am very happy that the Minister answers as she does – that you take this seriously and that you have started to look at this. Then maybe we can sort this out. However, I and many with me wonder whether the Minister and the management of Samhall really have not known that the codes are being misused and that Samhall chooses which labour force is going to Samhall. It is a relevant question, which I also hear quite often, especially in view of the Minister's response to the interpellation that we are now beginning to act and have looked at these things. When I saw Mission Review, I didn't really get the feeling from the minister that you see these problems. Rather, it seemed that they did not exist. It was said that this should not be done and so on. However, this criticism has been put to the government and Samhall for a long time, so I would like to have an answer to that question. Whether it is unintentional or not, the effect will be that non-Europeanly born without disabilities crowd out people who really need Samhall's services, which it is intended to provide them with a safe and stable workplace. That's the picture you got in Mission review, and that's incredibly regrettable. I'll settle for that question. Have you been aware of the doubts associated with coding before? Why else do you choose to act now?
i-030bef7acca75a31-809	Madam President, I would like I want to be very clear and say that coding should of course work. As I said, it should be the right target group to be assigned to Samhall. Samhall does not choose who will work there, but it is Arbetsförmedlingen who will assign those who have those needs. We have discussed this before. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about why I think the Samhall model is so important and why it is so important that we protect Samhall. There is no doubt that there has been much criticism of Samhall lately. It's come from different directions. As I said, it is good that problems are lifted up, because that is the way we can fix them. But since I myself, like the interpellier, have been privileged to follow Samhall for a number of years, I would also like to highlight, among other things, the importance of the yield requirement in Samhall. Samhall is a company that operates with yield requirements. The idea is that people should get real jobs. In many other countries, we have seen that instead, a path has been chosen with fake jobs where people are actually passive. But at one of my first meetings as Minister of Labour in the Nordic arena, it turned out that there are colleagues in other countries who are very interested in seeing how we work so successfully with the Samhall concept. We're gonna have real jobs. We do not believe in the idea of having fake jobs, but people should have the opportunity to develop and contribute where they are really needed. For this to be possible, Samhall must also produce what is really demanded in the market and the labour market. This means, in practice, that they are competing with other operators for market assignments. Those assigned to Samhall have a disability resulting in reduced working capacity. Of course, the work must be adapted to their circumstances. That is why Samhall receives compensation from the state – in order to compensate for this and adapt the work. Businessmanship must never be at the expense of employees. It's for them that Samhall exists. That's what we should remember. It is for the 26 000 employees who every day make very important contributions throughout our elongated country. Competition with other companies on the market must, of course, take place on fair terms, and that is why there is a demand for returns. It is also important that the company has an economy in balance over time. But at the same time let me be clear: there is no profit being collected, but the surplus goes back to the business in order for it to develop. Some people mean and have pointed out that there is a problem with yield requirements, but I do not agree with that. I believe that this is crucial for Samhall to be able to win new assignments and for the employees to be able to get real jobs. If we eliminate this, we risk both causing distortions of competition and creating a completely different Samhall, which does not provide real jobs where there is demand, but becomes more of fake jobs. That wouldn't be the way to go. I think it would be a waste of the potential of all those who work at Samhall today. But as the labour market changes, Samhall also needs to change. This has meant, as the interpellier said, that Samhall has turned to new industries and is also active in the service sector. Precisely because there is a demand there, it is important that Samhall is also active there. I'm not dreaming back to the sheltered workshops. When the labour market changes, Samhall will also develop and change.
i-030bef7acca75a31-820	Madam President, I would like That's a little bit of what I'm talking about. The Minister began his speech by saying that Samhall does not select his staff. But it is obvious that Samhall selects his staff. There are a lot of testimony that confirms just that. What I hear is, but it's not like that! But you know it's like that. Why, then, cannot be said: probably this has been misused to some extent, and we therefore want to act now. It will then be easier to understand how the Minister thinks about the problem management itself. I've been a salesman for almost my entire life, in various industries, and the staffing industry is one of them. I know how a sales organization works. Without knowing exactly how Samhall's sales organization is structured, I know that there are goals and requirements to find new assignments and new projects. At the same time, we have an employment service which, before the pandemic, had 75% long-term unemployed, i.e. people who were far from the labour market. The administrators at Arbetsförmedlingen who I have talked to say themselves that they want to find creative ways forward to solve their mission. These two components together I think create a gray area. What has happened here is about an agency that needs to get out the long-term unemployed and about Samhall, a company with profit requirements, that wants to achieve its goals. Of course it creates creative solutions. It's quite obvious. Once again, I am very grateful for the Minister's reply that we are now going to act on this. I will follow it with interest to see that it actually comes in place. The Swedish democrats believe in Samhall, and we increase the funding there. We want to see more of that kind of services in the Swedish labour market.
i-030bef7acca75a31-827	Madam President, I would like If there are irregularities, they should be immediately corrected. I have had the privilege of working close to Samhall for a number of years, and I feel tremendous pride in Samhall. I have been on many workplace visits and met a lot of employees who are very proud of their contributions every day. They are allowed to contribute, earn money and also develop with others at work. The government is now taking steps to meet this and to address the various issues that have been raised in this discussion. It is about the working environment, the instructions and the financial conditions for the company and to ensure that Samhall is active in a wide range of areas. This is important for Samhall to be able to offer meaningful and developing jobs where the individual can work according to his or her own conditions. If there are problems, they should be addressed. I want to be very clear about that. But I will not let the problems stand in the way to see that Samhall is an extremely important business that we in Sweden should be proud of.
i-030bef7acca75a31-831	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to take the consequences of the current situation in the Public Employment Service and halt the ongoing so-called reform, whether it is my view that the statistical profiling tool now used for the pilot project "Customer Selection" is an adequate part of a functioning active labour market policy and whether it is my opinion that the municipalities that will ultimately be responsible for the livelihoods of long-term unemployed residents will continue to be prevented from taking their own initiatives where the Public Employment Service is failing. The Employment Service is being reformed to better support the unemployed and enable more employers to find the right skills. As a step in a gradual, orderly and responsible implementation of the reform, Arbetsförmedlingen has been tasked with introducing developed matching services. An important and clear aim of the mission is to draw lessons for the design of the reformed system. The Arbetsförmedlingen has chosen to carry out the assignment in the form of the service that the agency calls Kundval equip and match, Krom. In connection with the Swedish Public Employment Service's mission to develop and prepare matching services in 2019, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, was tasked with analysing the development of the new service. The statistical assessment support introduced by Arbetsförmedlingen aims to assess distance from the labour market and thus the support needs of the job seeker. In this way, Arbetsförmedlingen can identify job seekers who are at risk of long periods of unemployment. Work mediators have continued to play an important role and make decisions on who should be assigned to Krom. The statistical assessment support is under development, and continuous improvements are important to increase accuracy. I welcome the IFAU report, which contributes knowledge to this work. The State has the responsibility through the Employment Service for the unemployed who need support to get into work. The employment agency needs to be a guarantor that this support can be provided regardless of where the unemployed person lives in the country. It is also important that local authorities' efforts and activities aimed at facilitating the entry of individuals into the labour market are exploited. The Government will return on how the proposal of the Municipal Investigations has continued to be handled. Arbetsförmedlingen makes decisions about suppliers in Krom based on an assessment of the requirements that the authority imposes in order to be approved as suppliers of the service. The requirements are the same for all applicants. Both the government's investigator and the Public Employment Service still consider it possible for municipalities to become LOV actors. It shall be ensured that the Public Employment Service has a presence and a functioning activity throughout the country, both during the implementation period and in the long term. Cooperation with municipalities, authorities and other actors shall be ensured. In order to prevent and break long-term unemployment, the government is taking several measures. In addition to investments in developed matching services, the administrative appropriations of the Employment Service have been strengthened and resources have been added for more participants in labour market training, additional services and introductory jobs. Intense years for new arrivals have been introduced and start-up jobs will be introduced. The Government also continues to strive for more unemployed people with educational needs to study. These are structurally important measures that can contribute to reduced unemployment times and more effective matching. A well-functioning labour market policy is crucial for Swedish adaptability, competitiveness and prosperity.
i-030bef7acca75a31-840	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, although the content was somewhat disappointing and possibly alarming. We find ourselves today in a situation of very high unemployment and a very serious development of long-term unemployment. The pandemic has exposed a lot of shortcomings in our social preparedness in a broad sense. When their own authorities and public services work well, Sweden is a very good country, but when they don't, often because of a long time of excessive belief in market solutions, people get caught. In this situation, it is somewhat incredible that the so-called reform of the Employment Service, which most early understood would lead to major problems, is supposed to continue and intensify under a Social Democratic-led government. It is an act which, in the light of what is happening in reality, seems unreasonable, irresponsible and socio-economically very costly. I must admit that I find it a little difficult to take this interpellation debate. It's hard to know where to start, because there are a lot of problems here. But one can start from the basics and recall that a majority in the Riksdag forced the government to postpone parts of the chaos privatisation of the Public Employment Service provided for in the January Agreement, inter alia in the light of the documented problematic and costly effects of previous market experiments in this area. The government and the minister were also forced to announce that the part of this privatisation experiment called the Customer Choice suit and match would not rest on the law of choice, LOV. Now the government has found a kind of semantic solution to this. You drive but wash your hands by saying that it is Arbetsförmedlingen, i.e. the authority that the government controls, which has decided that it should be this way, not the government itself. It may sound sly if you look at it as a fun parliamentary game, but it is not particularly wise, especially for those who want to take responsibility for a functioning labour market policy in Sweden. We are some who remember headlines that were about so-called job coaches, which existed earlier, who turned out to have saddled from leading a cult to forcing on job seekers different kinds of healing. Some of the so-called establishment pilots were suspected of recruiting people to the terrorist group IS. Recently we were able to read about an external provider of coaching services to Arbetsförmedlingen who turned out to have accommodated followers of the right-wing online cult Qanon. On the same day, AF stopped the collaboration with another commercial job matching company. It is not that I think the bad thing about the privatisation of AF is primarily the risk of recruitment to different sects. But this is an illustration of the fundamental problem that exists when complex public services are outsourced to commercial operators. It is difficult to understand that the government continues to act as an obedient and active tool for the wordings contained in the January agreement, based on a market-fundamentalist world view, I would say. This affects people who today need help and support from the Public Employment Service. I would really like to ask more horizontally, because I do not get clear answers to my original questions: does the Minister think that this is a reasonable thing for a Social Democratic-led government to do? In this way, another area is being opened up for the transfer of tax resources under difficult control to commercial operators.
i-030bef7acca75a31-850	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that there is a very broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the need to reform the Employment Service and to develop labour market policy. We are currently in a position where it is really necessary to ensure that we have an effective and active labour market policy that works throughout the country and that can meet the needs of employers to obtain the right skills but also to provide support to people so that they get closer to work or directly into work. When we reform the Public Employment Service, of course, the quality, control and efficient use of taxpayers' money should be the governing body. The reformed system must also have a variety of actors, but not more than that it is possible to ensure quality and performance control. Of course, we will have clear demands on suppliers and on operators on how compensation is designed. Suppliers who perform good results should be given better financial conditions to remain in the system than those for those who perform worse results. It is clear that this overall will mean a clear focus on results, a high minimum level through clarity and strict requirements on independent actors and a robust control. There is currently work, as I said, within the Government Office to develop the regulatory framework for the reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service that will be in place in 2022. And Arbetsförmedlingen is preparing the reform through the trial activities with procured matching services, which are now being expanded. Ali Esbati has asked me, Madam President, whether I intend to stop the ongoing reform. At this point, I do not see how stopping development would benefit job seekers or employers who need to recruit when we restart after the crisis. The most important thing now is that we are finished with the framework for the reform, so that Arbetsförmedlingen and other actors get clear and long-term conditions for their important work. Although the situation is serious right now, there are still many vacancies to apply for – over 120 000 today at Platsbanken. And as we recover in the economy, even more job vacancies will emerge throughout our elongated country. I would say that the demand for labour will not decrease in the coming years when we see the major investments in climate change and green technologies and also welfare efforts that are absolutely necessary. The government is therefore pursuing a clear labour market policy aimed at enabling the unemployed to seek out the emerging jobs. In many cases, a person who does not have a job needs an education in order to acquire the required professional skills. That is why, not least during the pandemic, it has now been a major focus on ensuring that the most important labour market policy effort is precisely education for a great many people who are far from the labour market. We should not forget that when we discuss the development of labour market policy and the reform of the agency, I think. Employment services will also continue to play a very important role in combating unemployment and in finding the skills they need to develop their activities.
i-030bef7acca75a31-858	Madam President, I would like It is nice that the minister mentioned the pilot project Kundval equip and match, which is supposed to then be rolled out across the country. The study I raised in my interpellation, which the Minister was only discussing in very general terms, shows something very remarkable. This whole system is based on managing different benefits to operators, depending on how difficult job seekers are to get into work. Then Arbetsförmedlingen has developed this profiling tool. Even if you think it seems a wise idea to rely more on the profiling tool than on the work intermediaries, which are then patterned out, it must be noted that it is very worrying when IFAU notes: The tools show no significant differences in activities between participants depending on the level they belong to. The conclusion I draw from this is that this whole project is based on a very shaky foundation, just as many have warned against. The whole sale of the arrangement has been about the magical market forces ensuring that the system sets itself up. Private operators will then receive the right revenue so that they can have the right expenditure. It's kind of dynamic and great. Now it doesn't look like that even at this easy stage. We heard earlier the minister's conclusion. It is worth reiterating that statistical assessment support is under development, and continuous improvements are important. ..................................................... That is a rather weak answer, I would say. It's that what's bad shouldn't be bad. Instead, it should be good without, so to speak, tackling what is at the heart of the problem. I do not think this bodes very well for the future and for the continuing governance. It is the same type of answer given to my second question, which was about the local presence and the problems caused by the lack of local presence in this situation. As the Minister himself says, it is very important in this situation that the state takes responsibility for, for example, the rapid increase in long-term unemployment. But what is the government's message to the municipalities and to the long-term unemployed? I quote from the answer: 中 It shall be ensured that the Public Employment Service has a presence and a functioning activity throughout the country. Yes, but the problem is that it is not so, and there is no indication that it will be so. It's not very reassuring or confidence-inspiring. Nor is it very reasonable for the question of whether and when commercial operators do not want or can cover certain areas to remain in the air. As I note in the interpellation, the investigation that will solve this problem has been seen by several important parties, interestingly enough both by LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, albeit for a little different reasons, and the municipalities that have so far tried to register their interest in participating have received no. We are therefore moving quickly towards a situation where important parts of the coherent State Employment Service are first destroyed and then not taken responsibility to clarify how the problems that are in the cards are to be solved. Something's bothering me. It obviously also concerns a great many municipal representatives, many of whom are party partners with the Minister. I think that many people are really thinking about how the state should do and how the government should act to take responsibility for the problems that the government's own actions have created in this area.
i-030bef7acca75a31-868	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by being very clear about the announcement that the Public Employment Service should also be present in a reformed system with a local presence throughout the country. Regardless of where you live, you should have the right to receive the support you need and, if necessary, be able to book meetings with an employment intermediary. We have been very clear about this in the regulation letter for this year. We shall of course have an equivalent service throughout our elongated country. I would like to remind you that it is not many years ago that several parties wrote that Arbetsförmedlingen should be phased out. We now have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we need an authority and a state labour market policy, and we will ensure that more of the matching and equipping efforts are also carried out by more actors than today. I would also like to say that I am very much in favour of using digitalisation and new technology in our authorities as well. If it can make things easier and help, it is something positive, but it is clear that we also need to understand that we need to learn from this. Madam President, I would like In April, 8 531 people participated in the matching service Customer Selection equip and match. This means that they meet a stand-alone intermediary who provides individually adapted activities to support finding a job or starting to study. The supplier has a high level of freedom in terms of content. This could include getting in touch with employers, supporting job search, finding work, and getting information about educational opportunities, guidance, courses and much more. Chromium is therefore made up of well-proven labour market policies. It's not weird. But of course we will follow the effort to see how we can improve it further, and that is why the government has commissioned IFAU to analyse the development of the new service. This is important. As I said, we will come back to the closer governance of the reformed system. In the department letter to be referred before the summer, an overall description of how the reformed system will be designed and managed will be provided. There should of course then also be the possibility of continuous development and improvement if necessary. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that matching services are only one of many tools available to the Employment Service. In future, the Employment Service will provide a broad range of labour market policies and provide them in a way that is most appropriate for each action. With this year's budget, the government has among other things SEK 772 million for labour market training to strengthen job seekers through vocational training and solve shortages and 500 million for introductory jobs and additional services for newly arrived and long-term unemployed to strengthen their position in the labour market. With the spring change budget, another half billion SEK will go to extra services and introductory jobs in addition to matching services. Many people have lost their job during and after the pandemic. Others were already unemployed. But the sufferer is not alone. Unemployment is something that concerns all of us, and anyone who is out of work should therefore meet both clear demands and good opportunities to find the next job and also acquire the professional skills that are needed.
i-030bef7acca75a31-877	Madam President, I would like In the distressing situation that we have in the labour market, we need strong efforts from society to avoid the costs being very high, and even greater in the future, for individuals and for the national economy. There is a need for investment and investment in education in many different forms. The government has done a lot during the pandemic, although much remains to be done. However, it is only to be noted that, in terms of labour market policy, the government and the January parties have deliberately created a situation in which, even if good intentions were to be found, it will still be difficult to actually implement those things, because the central government authority responsible for implementation has been beaten and defoliated. That is the tragic reality. Today we have a situation in society where, once again, we have begun to discuss the rather serious problems that the far-reaching marketing of Swedish schools, for example, creates for quality and for equivalence. We have also seen examples of how the profit motive has created serious problems in the care of the elderly. I think that many people are beginning to understand that these are not individual events but built-in systemic problems when, so to speak, public services are being marketed. What I see now, however, is that the government is keen to pursue yet another comprehensive marketisation of public services in the area that we are discussing. I want to make it clear that if this process continues, the problems will grow, and then no one will be able to say that they did not know or that these are run-in problems that resolve if you have a little better control and screws in the models. There will be problems that have been foreseen, and the responsibility will depend heavily on the government and the Minister for Labour.
i-030bef7acca75a31-882	Madam President, I would like We are in a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market, and I would like to say that there is no doubt that we need strong action and a strong, active labour market policy in this country. In fact, it is nothing new that we are using actors other than the state in labour market policy. For a long, long time we have been using private actors, educational companies, folk high schools, non-profit organisations and the idea-based sector. It's very important to say that. We're going to have a variety of actors. We will ensure that we shape a labour market policy that is also possible to adapt locally and regionally, where many different forces are needed and can be met to create the best conditions for people to get to work but also to switch to all the new, green and better jobs that are also emerging around our elongated country. We are now working on reforming the Employment Service. I intend to come back before the summer with a department letter when we can explain this whole governance and more how it is supposed to be. I am sure that we will have the opportunity to debate this issue at that time too, but I would like to stress that reform should take place in an orderly and gradual manner. Step by step, we take the work further. It is important that we take this approach, because when the labour market changes, labour market policy must also be able to change.
