i-7b92e61b1124a389-0	In proposal 2020/ 21:165 Extended possibilities to investigate the sinking of the passenger ship Estonia, the government proposes to introduce in the so-called Grave Peace Act a further exemption from the penalty-sanctioned ban on diving and other underwater activities at the wreck. The exception aims to ensure that Swedish authorities are able to investigate the sinking without risking criminal liability.
i-3mKHbuxhiWTDuPHgFZA549	Consequences are given in accordance with Chapter 9. Section 12 The parliamentary order is initiated within the framework of the matter. As regards the government's proposals, this means, among other things, that it is permitted to institute claims that are alternatives to the government's proposals. If a claim is an alternative, it may be assessed on the basis of the draft points and assessments contained in the proposal( 2012/ 13:URF3 p. 138 ff.). What has been investigated in this legislative matter and which is dealt with in the bill only concerns the question of whether it should be possible to do diving at the Estonia in order to determine the cause of the sinking. Whether the Estonia is to be covered or not has not been considered or processed in this legislative matter. On the basis of the Government's proposals and the assessments contained in the bill, the motions submitted by members of the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, in the view of the President, cannot be considered to have been initiated within the framework of the matter. The President therefore considers that he is in accordance with Chapter 11. Section 7 The Parliamentary Order is prevented from suggesting that the motions be referred to the Committee on Justice.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-2	Madam President, I would like In the proposal Extended possibilities to investigate the sinking of the ship Estonia, the government proposes to introduce in the so-called Grave Peace Act a further exemption from the penalty-sanctioned ban on diving and other underwater activities at the wreck. The Left Party and the Christian Democrats have proposed in their successive motion that the possibility of covering the ship M/S Estonia should be removed from the law of grave peace. The President does not believe that our requests fall within the scope of the case, but we do not share that view. We believe that the government proposal is about what should be and what should not be allowed under the grave peace law. It was also not possible for the parties of the Riksdag to know during the general exercise last autumn that the debate on the fate of the M/S Estonia would take off again or that the government was expected to present a bill during this parliamentary meeting. Therefore, the Left Party believes that the Constitutional Committee should consider whether or not the motion of the Left Party and Christian Democrats is part of the matter. I therefore urge the House to request a proposal on the matter.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-7	Madam President, I would like I would also like to speak on this matter. This is therefore the case for the two motions tabled by the Christian Democrats and the Left Party in connection with the amendment to the law on grave peace. Now it is proposed that it should no longer be illegal to dive at the Estonia in order to investigate the sinking. It's good and it's really needed. However, there is still the possibility to cover the Estonia, and therefore we want to address an announcement to the government. We ask that the question be put to the KU and then put to the vote. This issue involves many, both survivors and relatives. The strange order to cover with gravel had to be interrupted, and now we want to ensure that this cannot be considered again. We therefore call for the matter to be referred to the KU and may be put to the vote in plenary.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-18	Madam President, I would like We Moderates have a number of reservations on this matter, but for the time being, I only ask for reservation 1 under paragraph 1. Sweden's crisis preparedness capacity is very important, both for managing ongoing crises, such as the coronapandemine, and future crises, which may look quite different. We must have broad emergency preparedness that can deal with a variety of risks and threats. Good emergency preparedness also provides the basis for a good civil defence in the event of increased preparedness and war. If we prepare for war, we can also cope with crisis. A strong crisis preparedness is, among other things, about governance and management. Who does what and when? When all goes down, who has the mandate to step forward and take over? Who has the mandate to tell everyone else that we are doing this? There should be clearly identified responsible authorities for the management and coordination of crisis management activities. Now we have a report: Barbro Holmberg's investigation Structure for increased resilience, which is about governance. Ten sectors of preparedness are to be established, i.e. a division of a number of government agencies responsible for key social activities in different sectors, each of which has a responsible authority. The idea is to create an organisational platform for both planning and operational management of peacetime crises, increased preparedness and extreme war. All right, but in the end, the question is: When everything goes down, who has the mandate to step forward? As the emergency legislation stands today, the government can decide on enhanced or increased preparedness only in the event of war or war, not in the event of a serious crisis. Sweden would need to take steps to give the Government a mandate to act in the event of a crisis. We Moderates believe that it must be clear in leadership and governance how we deal with cross-sectoral issues, especially during crisis and war. We want to see a national Security Council placed in the Council of State Committee, a national Security Council led by the Prime Minister and composed of relevant ministers, a national Security Council that is a hub on issues relating to national security in a broad sense. It would then also constitute the central state crisis management organisation. Strong emergency preparedness is also about sufficient stocks of food, medicines and medical supplies. It's about access to fuel and electricity. Access to transport and a robust financial system are other important elements. The fundamental thing is, of course, that the IT systems are not decommissioned. Increased security of supply is central to strengthening Swedish emergency preparedness, and food, fuel and electricity supply must function during severe crises. More efforts are needed to address these shortcomings. Now in the course of coronapandemia, the government identified key sectors of society, including food production. We Moderates think that food production should be classified as socially important activity even after the acute Corona crisis is over, because the task of producing food and food must always work. Madam President, I would like Crisis preparedness is also a lot about hands and feet – about good people doing a good job. For civil protection, it is a matter of getting hold of and being able to keep firefighters and part-time firefighters. This congregation has given the government a commission – an announcement – that part-time firefighters' a-cassage rules need to be changed. Now the government has come up with a bill of improvements, but unfortunately they are missing the goal. The proposal must make a real difference. With the government's proposal, part-time firefighters will not receive sufficient cash compensation. If a call is made, all cash compensation will be paid that day. An emergency takes on average only an hour, and then the whole day shouldn't go up in smoke. The same applies to education and material care, which are often spent on evenings and weekends. It is a matter to be debated next week in another committee, but it is in fact related to that. We need people who can fix Sweden's emergency preparedness. I call on other parties to support the proposal, and I hope that they will. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an important part of the EU, and crisis preparedness is an area in which the EU will invest ever greater resources. The assistance that Sweden received from other European countries during the forest fires in the summer of 2018 was largely implemented thanks to the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Sweden needs to affirm an expanded crisis preparedness cooperation, among other things in order for us to cope with climate change. Working together is cost-effective. I am thinking of the water-scottering planes that we have at Skavsta and that we want to join the RecEU, within the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. In this way we can share the costs, and Sweden also has the opportunity to use them nationally. So we have fireplanes that are now based on Skavsta. That's great. The only problem is that the government seems to have started with a new competition: not to support at all or even to close as many airports as possible in as short a time as possible. The flight and our contingency airports are extremely important in order to maintain good emergency preparedness throughout Sweden. We want to close down on the grounds that fewer people are flying now, but that is a bit absurd, Madam President. It is no wonder that fewer people are flying right now, because we are going to stay at home to reduce the spread of infection. Shave me unsearched onto the Coast Guard, which is located at Skavsta with its flight unit. If Skavsta is closed, there is no long-term plan for where the Coast Guard air force would be located in the future. Coast Guard is an authority that performs many important tasks, including border protection, environmental surveillance, sea rescue and law enforcement. They got a new law in 2019. During 2020, police, customs and Coast Guards have worked a lot together on many different occasions in ports and made significant efforts, including to prevent stolen goods from leaving the country. That is a good thing, but it has also shown that there are a lot of problems, including the confidentiality that exists between authorities and that has made law enforcement work more difficult. There are also tools that may be used by one authority, but not by another, such as the police's application for registrations. It would be good if Customs and Coast Guards could also use it. During my various visits to the Coast Guard, it has become clear that the new law was not quite as accurate as we would have liked. Sometimes things don't really get the way you imagined, and then you need to decide. What am I talking about? Well, the Coast Guard was able to check and report recreational fishing from piers, islands and beaches in the past, but today they had to call the police if they sense trouble in the reeds. This also applies to the hunting of islands, where the Coast Guard is therefore not allowed to intervene. I do not think this is exactly what we had in mind, Madam President, and I think it is time to decide. We Moderates also want to see a review of the role and tasks of Coast Guards where proposals are made on how the Authority should resource, human and material, in order to carry out its mission. Finally, Madam President, there is one issue that is not really very political or controversial at all. It's about being able to alert 112 by text. When a person is in a crowded, threatening and dangerous situation, it can be difficult to call 112 and alert. I am thinking mainly of vulnerable children and women and of people who are victims of violence in close relationships, crimes of honour and other atrocities. Perhaps you are hidden in a closet and do not want to make yourself known or make sounds. It may be good to be able to alert via SMS, but today there is no possibility to do so unless you have notified 112 in advance that you have some kind of functional variation. If you are hidden in a closet, you may not have been able to prepare this. We Moderates want to make it as easy as possible to alert. Therefore, we want it to be investigated how 112 can be alerted by SMS as soon as possible. There's technology. It only seems that the political will is lacking, but not with us Moderates.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-42	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2, which is based on the committee movements of our members of the Committee on Social Affairs. Of course, we are also in favour of other well-written reservations and specific opinions, but we do not choose to highlight them for voting. Reservation 2 is about the Government working towards a common national governance and overall responsibility in pandemic situations. The legislation on the preparedness of the regions shall be binding. At the same time, there should be a clear state responsibility in terms of national coordination and support from national authorities. Today, there are no national guidelines on the size of municipal protective equipment stocks, which is a major deficiency. Health care and care are governed by a set of rules that authorities develop, such as the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Public Health Authority and the Swedish Work Environment Authority, as well as local regulations issued by municipalities and regions. In a crisis, it must be clear what interpretation of the rules that healthcare and care should follow. The last year's management has shown major shortcomings in society's emergency preparedness. But this is nothing new, Madam President! After the summer of 2018, it was found that communication between the municipal rescue services and the national management of resources was inadequate. Many municipal emergency services were and are still down to a minimum. Everyone expected to be able to get help from the neighboring municipality in the event of a major accident or fire. When it burned almost everywhere at the same time we stood there with the beard in the mailbox. One lesson that must be learned from the summer of 2018 and from the current pandemic is that our emergency preparedness must be dimensioned to cope with even severe crises with our own resources. The problems that we saw in the summer of 2018 came back two years later when the pandemic struck at municipal, regional, national and global levels. Neither municipalities nor regions had sufficient stocks of protective equipment to meet their own needs, much less to help others. There were initially little opportunities to get help from other EU countries, when virtually all of them were involved and all had the same flaws. It even went so far that two of the EU's largest countries introduced an export ban on protective equipment to other needy Member States. The conclusion must be that our emergency preparedness must essentially be based on our own national capabilities with strong national governance in terms of resources, coordination and control according to laws and guidelines. The Swedish Democrats' view is that MSB should have the lead in this work, of course not without the government retaining overall responsibility. Madam President, I would like In this debate, I would also like to touch on our other reservations in the report. We have a reservation based on a committee motion from SD members of the Civil Committee. In short, it aims to review contingency plans and laws to avoid situations that occurred last spring when a decision was quickly made to amend the Planning and Construction Act in order to establish field hospitals and sampling stations. In addition, there is a need for a national approach to emergency preparedness plans within the urban development area to equip Sweden, regions and municipalities for possible future crises. The Government therefore urgently needs to start work on the development of a national emergency preparedness plan in the area of urban development. We also have a reservation from the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which concerns the transport of dangerous goods. Drivers who have neither skills nor vehicles with the right equipment carry out this type of transport on our roads today. There are transports of dangerous goods that are not signposted, which is extremely serious in the event of emergency operations and may pose a risk of harm to people and the environment. The current organisation of the police does not meet the objectives of the number of checks carried out on these vehicles. Our proposal is then that a special police unit should carry out more inspections on our roads, and we have previously included resource reinforcements for this purpose. Madam President, I would like This debate mainly concerns requests from motions submitted during the general period of exercise. Initially, I have touched on some of them. If you want to read more about the Swedish Democrats' policy regarding society's crisis preparedness, our other proposals are contained in a series of committee motions that we have presented in the Defence Committee during the past year, not least follow-up movements in connection with, among other things, the autumn budget and the large total defence bill that was decided on last autumn. Madam President, I would like Having said that, it cannot be avoided that we are currently in the midst of an ongoing pandemic. It is therefore natural for all of us in this situation to focus most on today's current social crisis. I am aware that this is a motion report, but I still think it would have been nice if the minister responsible had been there to defend the failures of the government and the responsible authorities in terms of society's preparedness for a pandemic, to defend the government's failure to deal with the crisis once it was a fact and to take responsibility as a minister and as a government. Madam President, I would like If it is something that we have learned from the last few weeks of the KU hearing, it is that no one takes responsibility, that no one has responsibility and that no one wants responsibility. The government has no responsibility and takes no responsibility but blames authorities, which in turn escapes by the principle of responsibility sharing in this case becoming in practice a principle of irresponsibility. In addition, we need effective and effective civil servants' responsibilities. Madam President, I would like It is clear that among all the shortcomings identified, the lack of leadership in this situation is the most serious. We need a governing authority, MSB, which has the overall responsibility for crisis preparedness in Sweden. MSB needs through legislation, budget and government regulation letters to have the mandate, powers and resources to govern, manage, plan and enforce society's crisis preparedness. Madam President, I would like We also need a government characterised by leadership, responsibility, action and common sense. Unfortunately, however, no legislation and no resources in the world can help the current government. To achieve this, we need a new government, and this is what I will be working hard to achieve so that it will be in place by autumn 2022.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-59	Madam President, I would like It is an important debate today on the report on emergency preparedness, which touches on the fundamental values of the security of a country and the security of our citizens. The Center Party has for many years been paying attention to the need for more resources for Swedish civil protection, but also to the need for civil protection to be developed so that everyone in this country, regardless of where you live, in rural areas or in cities, should have the opportunity to feel the same security and security but also have equivalent protection. This presents great challenges but also opportunities at a time when we are rebuilding our overall total defence. As we travel around the country, we see that access to emergency services varies. Depending on where you live, there are different cancellation periods. We need to work in such a direction that resources are as close as possible. For us center parties, it is essential to strengthen and work with day-to-day preparedness in all its parts. People today, as in the past, must be able to have confidence in authorities and those representing public activities – jointly funded activities. People should be able to count on help and support and that the public actually works in everyday life. Of course, it is extremely important that we continue to focus on prevention and that there is a long-term, practical holistic perspective for us to manage the whole threat scale, from civilian crises to military activity – and the grey zone in between. The fact that the whole of Sweden has a functioning civil protection service is therefore also important for the construction of civil defence. Madam President, I would like Even in the summer of 2018, we had great trials in the form of drought, misgrowth and very extensive forest fires. At that time, the Center Party was out early demanding flying resources, that is, that Sweden would simply buy in fire extinguishing resources and that it would be flights. This has become a reality, and it has been an extremely important resource enhancement in combating both fires and other events in our time. This is a good thing; we must take many steps on the road to a strengthened daily preparedness. This also applies to the work to enable more people to join the part-time fire brigade and to support local efforts to recruit more people to the part-time fire brigade. That's where the deal with the government, the Center Party and the Liberals is important. It is about providing the unemployed with better conditions in relation to unemployment insurance so that they can continue to work as part-time firefighters. We also believe that MSB should be given a special task to support the municipalities in the recruitment of part-time firefighters. Other important and necessary reinforcements and practical efforts to enable more people to take up these tasks should also be reviewed. We also see a continued need to work with specialist training so that we can manage to fight large forest fires even better. If it is something that climate change shows, it is that the vulnerabilities and challenges of our society are increasing and that we are often tested hard in different arenas at the same time. That's why I also agree that leadership is required that is able to see the whole picture and can work long-term to see what needs to be done to prevent on time. We need to be able to deal with several major crises at the same time – not just one at a time. We must also constantly focus on learning from developments and circumstances during major crises in order to be able to take the necessary measures quickly. Madam President, I would like Gender equality is also an important issue, and one of our reservations in today's report is about this. Today, a large majority of firefighters are men; 5.5% are women. Here the country's municipalities have come at different stages, and we see that there is much to do in terms of the work to get more women into emergency services. Madam President, I would like The pandemic we experience and stand in the middle has major consequences for our country – for people's lives, health and property. We also see that major deficiencies in emergency preparedness are being exposed. These are shortcomings that have been known from time to time but have been left unchecked. Once again, it is an understatement of Swedish crisis preparedness that major development steps are taken only after a major crisis has occurred. We need to focus on that. We must learn from this and also critically examine how political work tackles these issues in the face of the next major challenges. Hopefully, the ongoing pandemic will lead to a reformed emergency preparedness where preparedness is higher on the agenda in our society in general, both at the local level in all the country's municipalities and in that we gather a higher priority of these issues. We're gonna need that. We need it right now. This is also important and urgent for the construction of civil defence in particular, so that the systemic shortcomings we have in the preparedness for crisis do not go into the new civil defence. At the same time, it is important to take advantage of what works – the methods and ways of working that are good – and get it into the overall total defense. We also need to have a single integrated system, not different systems of emergency preparedness and civil defence. Special solutions shall be avoided as far as possible. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation number 5 in the report. It is about the need for better crisis preparedness management. Crisis preparedness in the country is under-regulated and is based on three general principles: responsibility, proximity and equality. The Center Party believes that there is a need for a review of whether these principles are appropriate. Governance of society's crisis preparedness is basically based on three vague principles, and there are evaluations that have previously wanted to revise and clarify. However, the government has not chosen to take any action, despite clear government recommendations. I therefore hope, Madam President, that it will be a good summary of the large and extensive organisational inquiry that has just been presented into civil work, and that it will also take advantage of the evaluations and recommendations that have been made in the past. In the work to strengthen our overall preparedness, everyday security depends on us constantly working on the issues. Last winter there was a lot of water at home in the Gillberga Valley – in Glafsfjorden and Byälven – and the landowners were once again faced with the fact that the dikes could no longer stand. This took place during the pandemic, and it is one of many examples of crises actually happening at the same time. One of our most important points from an overall perspective is therefore that it must be expected to happen again, in many areas. That is what we need to take heights for when we are dimensioning, organising and also budgeting for a functioning crisis preparedness in the future.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-73	Madam President, I would like Hey, everybody who's watching and listening at home! Today, the Committee on Defence is debating motions on civil defence and emergency preparedness. It is an annual debate. The last time it was held was almost exactly a year ago, when the pandemic had just erupted. It almost feels like an eternity ago; it has been a long, heavy and tough year for all of us. And the pandemic is not over yet, so today's debate still feels very topical. Madam President, I would like I think many people feel that our perspective on crisis preparedness and civil defence has changed considerably this year. A little more than a year ago, many may have had a difficult time imagining a crisis that affects the whole of society. The call to have a crisis box at home, which is certainly a very good and important call, felt a little abstract for quite a few people. Now, however, we have lived with a crisis that has affected life, health and the functionality of society as a whole for a whole year, and it is not over yet. Our perspective on what is important in life has changed. Things we took for granted have disappeared or been cancelled, and we have had to adapt to a whole new reality. During the pandemic, we have seen how helpful and solidarity in society has increased. We have experienced the vulnerability of our society following privatisations and cuts in health care, care for the elderly and home care in particular. In recent years, we have talked quite a lot about the fact that our society is more vulnerable. Our discussions have previously focused on natural disasters, climate change and, above all, fires and droughts, but now we have been reminded of the threat that exists in the form of diseases and pandemics. Like many other serious events, our society must now emerge stronger and be able to face the next crisis in a much better way than we have faced it in. We do not yet know when the coronapandemy will end, but we are beginning to see the light in the tunnel thanks to the vaccination. As we leave this time, we must evaluate at all levels of society and make improvements in order to be able to face future crises, even if they will not look just like this crisis. We have come to understand the vulnerability that we have in our society. It is important that we are prepared and can be more resilient in the future. Madam President, I would like After all, it is we in the Committee on Defence who have overall responsibility for civil defence and for strengthening it. The concept of civil defence is ranging from ordinary welfare, such as health care and childcare, to electricity, heat, food, water, pharmaceuticals and the manufacturing industry for essential goods. This includes the efforts of society as a whole and all volunteers who do a great deal for our fellow human beings. It also includes the cultural sector, which contributes with reflection and joy to allow people to forget heavy moments. We must never ignore the importance of the cultural sector in this case. Civil defence is what enables us to resist and to recover as quickly as possible. That is why civil defence needs to be strengthened in the future. We are in a great deal of work on this right now. Madam President, I would like This crisis has been exacerbated by the fact that our society has suffered for many years and in many places from major cuts and privatisations in the public sector and in the welfare that is closest to us. Municipalities and regions have a fundamental and very important responsibility to plan for activities such as health care, care for the elderly and preschool to be able to start and also expand their activities in times of crisis. This requires financial resources, preparation, cooperation and an increase in knowledge across the public sector. In any case, we who are left-wing parties know that businesses that already when it's quiet go on their knees and have difficulty in coping with the business will have very difficult to expand and do even more when there is a crisis. In order for operations to operate in crisis situations, staff must not be understaffed or understaffed from the outset. In the future, we must have fully funded healthcare and care for the elderly, where staff have higher salaries, better working conditions and time for further training and can take their holidays. More people must want to train themselves to care professions, will and manage to stay all the way to retirement and be able to feel joy and pride when they go home from work every day. For the Left Party, it goes without saying that it is equal societies, where we plan, fund and implement things together, which are strong societies. The Left Party believes that the privatisations and sales of our common welfare in recent decades have weakened us and made it more difficult to respond effectively to crises. We therefore need to take back socially important activities, especially in welfare, to public direction. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has three motions in this report, all relating to areas which are not defence policy. This shows that emergency preparedness is something that affects all sectors and areas of society. In a motion in the Committee on Social Affairs, we call for information to be made available to citizens in the event of a crisis or disaster to people with different disabilities. People with disabilities and the oldest and youngest in our population are those who need the support of society first and most in a crisis. This, of course, requires planning and resources. In a motion on housing policy, we call for better supervision of fire safety in multi-family buildings. Fires in homes can be prevented in a very simple way if all apartments have functioning smoke detectors that are tested regularly. This definitely saves lives. The motion that I have chosen to highlight and endorse in this speech is another motion by the Committee on Social Affairs. It concerns the overall responsibility of the state in the event of crises, which is the pandemic we are now experiencing. We believe that responsibility should lie with the state and that the state should investigate how, for example, the production of protective equipment and consumables for healthcare and care can be secured within Sweden. I therefore support reservation number 7. I would like to conclude by expressing my great thanks to everyone – especially all health professionals – who have worked to help the sick and alleviate the effects of the crisis that we are in now. I would also like to express my great support and sympathy for all those who have been affected by the ongoing pandemic.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-92	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Defence is debating a report on society's emergency preparedness. This is an issue that is very topical, because this is about protection against accidents and about society's peacetime emergency preparedness. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 4 under paragraph 1. I am, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I agree with that reservation. Is there anything we can be sure of is that there will be crises– we have seen it in history, and we will see it in the future. We had the fire in 2014. We had the fire in 2018. We have the ongoing pandemic. Crisises are coming, and that is why it wants us to learn from what has happened historically and to ensure that we are better equipped the next time the crisis strikes. The defense committee was set up. We were given a mission to first look at society's emergency preparedness and what was needed. We were ready already in December 2017, three and a half years ago, and then had a lot of clear proposals. What we saw was that society's crisis preparedness was under all criticism and that what we once had was no longer there. I think most Swedes have seen, and see, that this is the case. At that time, Madam President, it was not possible to sit with your arms crossed, but we had a series of proposals that we presented. Unfortunately, it has taken a very long time to become a workshop. Now there have been proposals from Barbro Holmberg, but it takes very long. There's a danger in delay. There is a lot to learn from Finland. This has been said before here in the speaker's chair, and I can say it again: Finland usually says, of course, that they learned civil defence from Sweden, but they were wise enough not to close it. That is why, Madam President, there is so much to take into account when it comes to experiences from Finland. Finland, for example, has a functioning system where oil and fuel are stored. They also hire private entrepreneurs and give them the right compensation, and they practice. As far as our military proposal is concerned, too, it has turned out that we have been careless. If we look ourselves in the mirror, we see that we have been careless with exercises militarily, but there are now improvements. However, this is also the case in civil matters, because if it is something that is certain, it must be practiced. If it is not practiced, it will not work satisfactorily. That is why this is a matter of concern to the Christian Democrats and to me personally and in which we have pressed. It is also important that it works with management. Therefore, for example, the Defense Committee pointed out that MSB needs to come back again under the Ministry of Defence. For some inscrutable reason that has never been explained, the government moved in 2014 over MSB to the Ministry of Justice. As we pointed out in the Defence Committee and all parties agreed, it needs to be clear leadership, because if the worst happens, it is important. It is therefore worth pointing out today that this is still in the government's drawer but that it needs to be found out who is doing what. I also think about the fire in 2018, when it was quite peculiar really. I remember clearly that the former Director General of MSB said that he got a gut feeling that he was going up to Norrland just when it started to burn and that to his surprise people started listening to him. We can't have this. We need to keep this in order with direction and structure. Therefore, MSB needs to get muscle so that you can lead. We have a reservation about the fire department. There have now been some improvements, but that is not good enough. Madam President, I would like We have pointed out time and again that the Swedish Armed Forces have very nice helicopters. They're good, and I'm thinking especially of Black Hawk. There are 15 that can take 2,500 liters of water each time they lift and can make a huge effort. They can help if they can, but they should, of course, be given the task of preparing and being prepared to help in a completely different way from today, not only when they happen to have the opportunity. This is an important thing that needs to be changed. Another point that we raise in our reservation is something that is still unsolved. The Maritime Administration has seven helicopters. They are usually nicely parked in different places around the country. They have a hook so that they could help lift fire cans. But they haven't gotten there. There have been investigations and the permits exist, but nothing happens. We can't have this. Madam President, I would like One example is when a few years ago there was a fire on beautiful Gotland. From the station where the helicopter stood, you saw the fire, but there was nothing you could do. We can't have that. After all, we cannot use the common resources in such an irresponsible way. Helicopters in particular are a typical example of the fact that, in rebuilding civil defence, we must use the resources that we have effectively and thus strengthen emergency preparedness. Sweden is the country in Europe that has the most forest. As was pointed out by another speaker here, we received help from Europe, and we shall be eternally grateful for that. Sweden, which is the largest in terms of forests, was very easy to get on your knees. We can't have that. We must, of course, be a great power when it comes to this kind of fight and get a system that allows the Swedish Armed Forces to help in a different way to today and also that the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters can be used. That way we will have more opportunity to extinguish the next time there is a fire, for unfortunately it will burn again. Madam President, I would like Then there is food security. In the 1990s, domestic food supplies accounted for 75 per cent. Today it has fallen to under 50 per cent, while in our neighbouring country Finland it still stands at 80 per cent. That is why we need to classify food production as socially important activities. Finland – we talk a lot about Finland, but it is actually an example – can make sure to have food for our citizens for six months. In Sweden we can manage maybe ten days, if that wants to be a good thing. In short, we have a homework to do. We must ensure that this is given the highest priority. This is also true of the fact that cyber-attacks are on the increase. All our neighbours have a cybersecurity centre or authority that has the main responsibility. We are now creating a cybersecurity centre in Sweden, but then four authorities will share the responsibility. The problem is that it falls between the chairs. The responsibility is not clear. We can't have this. Therefore, in this example, the FRA needs to be given the primary responsibility. Eventually it also needs to become, as in other countries, an authority that is responsible. With these words, Madam President, I would once again like to support reservation 4 in paragraph 1.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-110	Madam President, I would like We are debating today's report on the preparedness of society for crisis. There are many important and serious issues raised in this report, and it is gratifying to see the commitment expressed by Members of Parliament with the rich movement flora. There are exercises on Coast Guards, contingency planning, voluntary defence organisations and much, much more. It is also positive with the broad consensus that exists in this House between the parliamentary parties on the need to strengthen our emergency preparedness and to continue work on building our civil defence. This consensus was clearly manifested in last year's orientation decision for the total defense. The S-led government, together with the cooperation parties, then agreed on the biggest investment in modern times in civil defence. In the coming years a total of SEK 4.2 billion will be added. The need for robust preparedness is basically about ensuring our most basic needs in times of severe stress. It is enough to look back on the last year to see what it can be more concretely about. The pandemic is a crisis that has specifically put certain questions about our preparedness in lightning. These include, for example, the importance of being able to provide sufficient protective equipment, to sort out responsibilities between the state, regional and local levels and a variety of other issues, such as being able to scale up healthcare. Thanks to decisions taken actually before the pandemic outbreak, we have come some way now when it comes to taking care of these and a lot of other issues linked to our preparedness. For example, as several Members have mentioned, Barbro Holmberg's investigation into the management and responsibility of civil defence was recently presented. It proposes a more rational governance structure in the event of crises or extreme war. Recently, the report on health care preparedness also made a number of proposals, including improved access to key medicines through an increased stockholding and distribution system. Also worth mentioning in this context is that the activities of the highly anticipated national cybersecurity centre are now under way. At the turn of the year, the new authority opens up psychological defence. And here, Madam President, we can continue to list the many activities and initiatives that are being undertaken in the areas of emergency preparedness and civil defence. To sum it up, it can be said that a lot is happening in many different areas at the same time. This vast amount of processes is also a little bit of the challenge of crisis preparedness and civil defence. Unlike military defence, civil preparedness is not just the responsibility of an authority with a Director-General with a budget allocated, but of a wide range of actors. It is the municipalities, regions, county boards, the whole business community, the parliament, the government and, of course, we as individual citizens who have a responsibility for this. Civil defence and emergency preparedness are, to say the least, a very complex organism. As far as Parliament is concerned, we now have an important task to follow up on the fact that the great decision taken by this House last year is being implemented in line with the intentions of the bill. What is also needed, Madam President, is, I believe, a wider discussion on the organisation of society. It is a discussion that touches ideological issues such as the view of the state and the view of the public, what we have together. Former President of the United States Ronald Reagan once said that the nine most dangerous words in the English language are: I come from the government, and I will help you. Reagan's words were translated during the 1980s and 1990s into a policy in which the state came to be seen as the great problem, as an obstacle between free individuals and some kind of neoliberal glory. Throughout the Western world, there was a wave of privatisations, deregulations and major tax cuts, also here in Sweden. What we are seeing today, however, not least during this pandemic, is how extremely dependent we are on each other and how extremely dependent we are on strong, well-functioning institutions. Alone is not strong. That is why, perhaps some parties more than others, we need to ask ourselves critically what privatisations and deregulations of public goods have meant for our preparedness. For example, was it right to liberalise the pharmacy market without taking into account which operator would actually ensure the supply of medicines in the event of a crisis? Does being fragmented into a large number of smaller actors make health care stronger in a crisis situation? Is it right to sell out important state infrastructure to the highest bidder? You cannot, Madam President, be in favour of a strong public sector in a time of crisis and then be against it when the crisis is over. What has also become characteristic of modern society, and which can be said to be the same breathing children, is how governance models derived from manufacturing industry such as on demand, just-in-time and lean production have come to be applied in a variety of sectors of society regardless of the pressures of a crisis or war. The least disturbance in these systems is likely to have major consequences for the functioning of society. It seems, Madam President, that we still have to understand how – in order to speak market-lingo – we should properly price our readiness. With that, Madam President, and with the hope of continuing discussion and dialogue on these issues, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-126	Madam President, I would like Kalle Olsson mentioned in his speech on demand and just-in-time. I was actually thinking exactly about those concepts. When it comes to socially critical systems, it is of course risky that the state, municipality, county councils and other public activities engage in just-in-time and on demand. Socially critical systems must, of course, have a robustness so that they are able to deliver what citizens need. It is therefore a little with concern that I see, for example, the energy supply in Sweden. Swedish power grids check for each season if we have enough capacity to cope with the worst cooling months of January and February. You look and say: Here we have a critical moment. What can we get from the outside world, from Norway, Poland and others? Yes, but there's enough capacity. Fine. Then you get the assignment to check how the other countries assess the capacity shortage that can show up in the middle of winter. It turns out that they had calculated the same capacity surplus. That is to say, when we stand there with a snow-poor winter and a dry summer, the crisis may be a fact. In all the developments we make– I'm not anti-development, on the contrary; we're going to have a development – we have to keep thinking about the robust systems. They always have to work. We must always think about the worst scenario – not least when it comes to energy supply, because in many respects it is vital for a cold country like Sweden. How does Kalle Olsson, the government and the Social Democratic Party see on that very part that we must build a robust energy system? Sure, we're going to take the height of climate change, but we still need to have a supply of energy in Sweden so that we can handle all situations. I would like an answer to your view of this development.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-131	Madam President, I would like I can certainly agree with what Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström says about the importance of a robust energy supply for everything else in society to work. Basically, regardless of what we are talking about, the basis is that we have a secure and robust energy supply. In Sweden, we have an energy mix that provides stability and a long-term perspective in our planning. We'll take care of it. We shall also ensure that we build an infrastructure, which is currently under way, which strengthens transmission capacity across the country. There is probably no easy answer to this, but ensuring increased energy production in Sweden is an extremely central issue, as well as ensuring that we have transmission capacity across the country. I myself come from an area in the country where we have a lot of hydropower. We are now seeing an increased demand for energy production in northern Sweden. Most often the discussion is about us transferring energy down to southern Sweden; I think that in the future we will also need to talk more about how we ensure a transmission capacity north of our country. There are therefore a number of issues that need to be addressed in this respect.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-135	Madam President, I would like What Kalle says here sounds good. But the fact is that we have a situation, just as he says, where we need more capacity in Sweden. The world around us also needs more capacity to achieve the climate goals that we all strive for. That capacity does not exist today. That surplus does not exist when we have a dry summer. We have a Russia that supplies a large part of the energy that Germany is consuming today. We know that in the past they have turned off the gas tap for neighbours who do not politically live up to their goals. We live in an uncertain world. We can't have it like that. Kalle Olsson is from Jämtland. I have lived in Jämtland myself. Nowadays I live in Västnorrland, in Ånge, 100 km from Östersund. Something that worries my voters in Ånge, and certainly also in Jämtland, is that there is a willingness among certain authorities and even politicians with which Kalle Olsson's party cooperates to strangle the possibilities of using fireplaces, wood-fired boilers and tile ovens. It has been stated that it should be prohibited to install wood-fired stoves to cook. But you and I both know that it wouldn't work with us. If you live in a lonely village in western Jämtland, how would you survive a blackout if you are not allowed to burn in your fireplace or have not even had to install a fireplace, a stove or whatever it may be? Can you promise me, Kalle Olsson, that those who live in sparsely populated areas will have to burn in their fireplaces, use their old Husqvarna iron stoves to cook and keep their tile oven for heating?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-139	Madam President, I would like I can assure you that the issue of a robust energy supply in our country is a top priority. It is also clear whether you read, for example, the orientation bill, on which we decided in this House last year. It is a crucial element when we talk about emergency preparedness and, not least, civil defence. I myself have filled up my supply of wood for the coming winter season. I look forward to using that wood if necessary. It is both a source of warmth and a small complement to the Friday charm, if you can put it that way. It's important. Joking aside: We must, of course, ensure that we develop the types of energy we have in the country since before. We must also, of course, continue to develop wind power, hydroelectric power, wave power, solar power and so on – partly because it is the right way to go about the climate crisis that we find ourselves in, partly because it is part of building a robust society for the future.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-142	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Olsson three questions. First of all, I would like to mention this proposal that we had and that all parties agreed on in the Defence Committee three and a half years ago, namely that MSB would be back under the Ministry of Defence. That would be an important part of the reconstruction of civil defence. How are we doing with that? That was the first question. The second question concerns the issue of fires and civilian preparedness in relation to that part. Then I think that the experience, which I was discussing in my speech also with regard to the Swedish Armed Forces, is that the Swedish Armed Forces can help but only if they happen to have the opportunity to do so. Is it not reasonable for them to be given the task of planning to be able to help and to find a compensation system that works so that we can use the resources that we have? The third question concerns the issue of the Swedish Maritime Administration and their fine helicopters, which are type-approved to have a hook underneath them and could therefore be an important part of fighting fires. We know that the fight is the most important thing in the first place, just when it has started to burn. The experience of these fires is that you have to have a lot of resources. It is better with a little too much resources at the beginning so that you extinguish properly and the fire cannot spread further. So it should be an important thing to fix this. The third question is therefore: how are the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters going – will they be commissioned to mount these hooks so that the helicopters can be part of the fight against the next forest fire? For there will unfortunately be forest fires again, given that we are the ones with the most forest in Europe.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-147	Madam President, I would like With regard to the first question from Mikael Oscarsson, it is ultimately a question for the Prime Minister how he chooses to organise the Government Office. We can note that in Barbro Holmberg's investigation there is a clear governance where that MSB should have an extended mandate and a more coordinating role in controlling civil defence and crisis preparedness. Then it is quite simply that no matter how you cut the sausage you will always end up at different intersections. I do not think there is a simple solution to pooling all the skills in one place, especially in this area where we are actually talking about the preparedness of the whole community. It is not possible to put everything in one department, but we will always need cooperation and coordination between departments, between authorities and with the rest of Sweden. I object a little to the attitude heard from certain parties and from Mikael Oscarsson that only we make an organizational change will everything work out, because that is probably not the case. These are complex issues where a lot of people have to take a very big responsibility and where we have to work together. Madam President, I would like In the case of forest fires, Sweden has in a short time developed into something of a hub when it comes to forest fire control in northern Europe. We have come, to say the least, very far in a few years. It was, one might think, a reaction to the serious events that we saw not least during the forest fire summer 2018. In a short time we have now acquired flying skills to extinguish fires both with smaller aircraft and with helicopters. We also have, as Mikael Oscarsson did, the military's resources and other resources.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-151	Madam President, I would like I think it might be good to remind the House and the Swedish people that this proposal was not just from the Christian Democrats – although I often talk about it – but it was something that we all parties actually agreed on in Förs förs försförsförsförsning. This was a pillar of the proposal we had. Our thought was that it had to work in a crisis but also in a war. The experience is that ordering is important, especially in such a sharp situation. Historically, all the years before 2014 it has been that they have had MSB under the Ministry of Defence. So this is probably a little more important than just talking about how to cut the sausage, which was the expression that the honourable Member was talking about. In fact, I think the issue deserves more weight. We put forward the suggestion that this was not a sausage issue, a minor issue, but it was important to get the order in place. Then it is good that it has come to resources in the field of firefighting, but it is still the case that it has been pointed out time and again that, with regard to the reconstruction of civil defence, this is a central issue with helicopters. It is expensive and is a resource that few can have, that is, we must have the same type of helicopters, be coordinated and, in the event of crises, be able to use this maximum. Then, Madam President, as a rubber ball, I will come back to the question: what about this legislation, in concrete terms? Can the Swedish Armed Forces help in another way next time there is a fire so that we can use the resources we have? And what about the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters... will they get the hooks that could be there so that those helicopters can help?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-155	Madam President, I would like I'd be happy to develop a little more when it comes to organising emergency preparedness in civil defence. There are many aspects to this. Mikael Oscarsson talks about ordering. It should nevertheless be remembered that we have a principle of responsibility that weighs heavily in these contexts. We do not have ministerial governance in this way, but we have independent authorities working on the basis of instructions, regulations, government missions, budgets and so on. It is the base, and I think it is important that we remind ourselves of this so that we do not give the impression that the government gives orders and controls, for example, the fight against a forest fire, because that is not really how it works. There is also another point in this that I would like to highlight. It is that the organisation that we have today, when these issues lie under the Ministry of Justice, means that MSB that manages crisis preparedness has established relationships between administrators and between authorities that are then very valuable to use in crisis. I think that is something to be protected: relations that are worked up under normal circumstances provide added value when the crisis is a fact. Madam President, I would like When it comes to helicopter capability, the Swedish Armed Forces are helping. They're making a huge effort. They have done so during the last forest fire fights and will certainly do so in the future. I am absolutely convinced of that. Then, as far as what Mikael Oscarsson was concerned about the coordination and procurement of helicopters in the future, for example, is concerned, I think we have a lesson to do as a country. We are a small country and probably need to be a little better at coordinating ourselves and getting the most out of the way when we do this type of procurement.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-160	Madam President, I would like When I moved from Jämtland to Stockholm, one could not go to the pharmacy after 6 p.m. At the weekend you couldn't go to the pharmacy. If anything happened, you had to wait until Monday or go to a joura pharmacy in the city at Central. I thought it was good. Today you can go to the pharmacy a fairly large part of the day. You can go there while you're shopping for food. I think that's fantastically good. We depend on goods and services from all over the business world. But it sounds like Mr Olsson is actually talking about these private actors not being allowed to remain, because then we cannot have any preparedness, and so we have to control them. Do I understand Mr Olsson correctly? The business community, from small, individual entrepreneurs to large multinationals, owns the resources on which we depend. It is not today that it was 30 years ago. We've evolved. I have two questions about emergency stocks. We have waited a very long time to find out something about it – what it can look like and when we can see some sort of such layer. But it's taking some time from the government parties. It is investigated and investigated and investigated. I read an article the other day about Sweden perhaps being the country investigating itself to death. I think it is very important that we use the business community and that we work together with the business community. The defense committee also agreed that a business council was needed for the total defense, but neither have we seen the smoke. When will it be, Mr Kalle Olsson?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-165	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell is right that in Stockholm soon there is not a pharmacy on every other corner but on every corner of the street. It is, of course, an accessibility that many certainly value. In my speech, however, I chose to highlight the issue above all from the point of view of preparedness. After all, when the Reinfeldt Government liberalized the pharmacy market a number of years ago, it forgot or neglected to allocate a responsibility for preparedness. Wasn't that a mistake, Alexandra Anstrell? Don't you see a problem with that? I see big problems with that. One effect is that now, as we rebuild civil defence, we have to give investigation missions to look at how we can take back that ability. Åsa Kullgren, government investigator, came up with some time ago with suggestions on how to build up a robust drug supply again, how to take back the emergency pharmacy again. I think that these are very relevant issues when we build a civil defence. And I think the way in which the then moderate government dealt with the issue was irresponsible. In the next line, I will gladly return to the role of the business community in total defense. That is a crucial part. Like the honourable Member, society has changed in many respects since we last had a civil defence. We will have to work closely and closely with the business community. I also feel that there is a strong commitment by the business community, not least at the industry level, to be involved and take responsibility in the construction of total defence.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-168	Madam President, I would like I cannot thank Kalle Olsson for the answers, because I only received counter-questions. Does Kalle Olsson mean that we cannot build emergency stocks without the business community? Is Kalle Olsson saying we're going to do it completely state-of-the-art? I also wonder about the electricity issue, which was discussed in previous replicas. In these times of crisis, many have moved to the country. You choose to live where you might have a wood stove or similar and where you can chop your wood, as Kalle Olsson has also done. You're prepping to make it through a crisis and maybe even a war. In many places, such as both Ragunda and Offerdal in Kalle Olsson's county, large wind farms are planned. They would stand there and perhaps destroy those who have moved out, for those who have chosen to move there to get a completely different accommodation than before. I wonder if Mr Olsson sees that there can be any minimum or maximum level of how much a municipality should contribute to electricity supply. Much of the electricity that is created in Jämtland, which Kalle Olsson used to be, is created by hydropower. Should you put all the eggs in a basket, or should you be able to spread it out?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-173	Madam President, I would like This is the charm of dealing with these kinds of questions. We talk about wind power in Ragunda, and we talk about food security and the role of business – a lot of different issues. It's really fun and, above all, really important. I want to go back to what Alexandra Anstrell said in her first line to me that it's being investigated, and it's being investigated. Yes, thank God we have at least begun to investigate and are also beginning to come a bit along the way. Civil defence was largely completely decommissioned. We have an enormous amount of work ahead of us to rebuild that ability. We were once a world leader in this area, and now we are going to build up an ability again. Of course we need to investigate. It needs to be investigated lengthwise and abruptly. And there will be an even greater need for investigations. Thank God for that! That means we're on the go and we're taking it seriously. We are making the biggest investment in civil defence in modern times. We are making the biggest investment in military defence since the 1950s. It's happening now. It happens during an S-led government. We are now moving in the right direction. It's important to make a point. As far as the role of industry is concerned, Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg just last Tuesday reported on his dialogues with industry to the Committee on Defence. The House also adopted a defence bill just a few months ago which clearly states that we should set up a cross-sectoral business council. It's gonna happen. As early as 2019, an investigation looked at these issues. Unfortunately, we have to say that it did not give all the answers that we had hoped for at the time. But work must continue, not least linked to security of supply.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-178	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the emergency preparedness of society. What, then, is a crisis? On crisisinformation.se there is the following information from MSB:中 The word crisis means different things to different people. ... A crisis threatens fundamental functions and values such as the supply of electricity, our health or our freedom. It may be that a lot of people are affected or that an event has such major consequences that society does not function properly. Sometimes the term "exceptional event" is used. It is an event that deviates from normal and involves a serious disturbance or an imminent risk of a serious disturbance in important social functions. Extreme weather – as we have seen several examples in recent years – can be an extraordinary event. ---- Failing those responsible to mitigate the effects of a crisis, the public may lose confidence in government and authorities. This, in turn, could threaten national security and democracy. ..................................................... There we have the meaning of the concept of crisis, according to MSB's definition. In order to do what needs to be done, at the right time and with the right effort, a clear organisation is needed where all the authorities and other parties involved know what to do. We are only human beings, so we will certainly not be fully prepared for any extraordinary event that may happen, but our ambition must still be to prepare for it all the time. The fact that we need to be prepared for various kinds of crises has become clear over the years with huge forest fires, floods and other extreme weather events. There are also increasing numbers because climate change is being reminded, even in our country. We also need to be prepared to deal with several types of crisis at the same time. It has turned out that we do not really have the preparedness that we should have. It has become particularly evident during the pandemic. To be clear: emergency preparedness needs to be strengthened, more than so far and even more than we plan to do. We have just taken note of the investigation into the organisation of civil defence, the structure for increased resilience. There are many parts that are important to implement. The investigation has been based on Resistance power that came in 2017. We all know that Sweden has experienced several crises since 2017. We need to learn these lessons. This has been done to some extent in the investigation, but in the consultation round there will certainly be more lessons that we need to take with us. The Green Party believes that it is of the utmost importance, as suggested by the investigator, that civil defence should, as far as possible, be based on structures and processes already in use, which exist, in the context of emergency preparedness. During the fires, floods and pandemics that have hit us, lessons have been learned locally and regionally. What is well-established in everyday life also has the best conditions for working under strained conditions. Also several of the major changes in the organisation that are highlighted as proposals will clarify responsibilities and lead to faster and more vigorous efforts, when and where they are needed. We are good at organization in Sweden. When we think about it, it usually gets well organized. And if there is a time when society needs to be well organized, it is in times of crisis. Food, water and heat are fundamental to our lives and need to be catered for in times of crisis. In order to make it the whole population, society depends on functioning electricity supply, transport and increasingly secure and functioning internet connections. But even with very robust infrastructure and supply, a buffer is needed in the event of sudden crises, in the form of emergency stocks and own stocks in households. Food, medical supplies, pharmaceuticals and fuel are examples of goods that need to be in stock to allow society time for transition when trade mechanisms are disrupted. Current stocks are not sufficiently large, and liability has been shown to be unclear. Stockholding therefore needs to be improved step by step and constantly adapted to the needs of society. We have only just begun such a journey. Some stockpiling needs to take place centrally in government, but stocks must also be close to people and businesses. Therefore, all parts of the public sector need to cooperate with industry on stocks of critical goods. In order for security of supply to be further developed, the Government intends to set up an investigation into what a nationally coordinated security of supply should include and how it should be organised and financed. Electricity supply is crucial throughout the spectrum, from everyday crises via grey zone attacks to conflict on Swedish soil. Building a more robust electricity system that can better cope with supply disruptions from places in the country that account for a large part of the electricity supply can go hand in hand with building a power grid that is adapted for a high proportion of electricity from wind and sun. 85 per cent of Sweden's population live in cities or urban areas. There is a great need for freight transport. There the rail network plays an important role, both as a transporter of goods and in being able to move many people quickly in the event of a crisis. Logistics planning and transport itself are carried out by tens of thousands of private operators. A large number of authorities and companies are responsible for socially critical activities that depend on transport. It is therefore difficult for an individual authority to give priority to transport, and a system of burden-sharing and continued operation of the transport system needs to be developed. For this reason, the Green Party believes that it is important to take a holistic approach to the issue of transport and to security of supply in the event of crisis and war in the same way as the Energy Authority today takes a holistic approach to the energy system. As far as transport, fuels and energy are concerned, we also need to plan on the transition to electrified road transport systems that are expected to take place over the next few decades. In order to increase self-sufficiency, it is crucial that Swedish agriculture can be operated without import of inputs. The protection of ecosystems needs to be strongly strengthened. Seas, forests and agricultural land need increased protection so that ecosystem services do not collapse and livelihoods are not eroded. Right now, our focus is on the pandemic and its effects on society as a whole. But we also need to dare to think that we need to have the capacity to deal with more crises at the same time. The Green Party wants to raise water again. Clean water, drinking water and water for watering crops are crucial for a functioning society. The water issue is often obscured by us, because in Sweden we have always had good access to water. We still have access to water, but over the years we have also taken it for granted and been careless. Today, some water sources and drinking water wells are contaminated by PFAS or pesticides. Many municipalities have huge investment needs for the repair and maintenance of water pipes. Several sewage treatment plants are located so that, in the event of flooding, they can overflow untreated waste water and contaminate drinking water. We know that water can be contaminated quite easily today. We also know that the lack of water, in the event of extreme drought such as the one we experienced a few years ago, is triggering a chain of events that is difficult to manage: no feed for animals, which must be slaughtered, and not sufficient capacity for slaughterhouses. Much therefore needs to be addressed in the area of water. Very much of the work can be done with the help of nature's ecosystems and its ecosystem services. Together with nature, we have great opportunities to get cleaner water and better water retention in our soils. Water supplies need to be protected against pollution. More wetlands need to be built to improve water treatment and keep the water in the soils in case of drought. More spare water supplies are needed, and these need to be prepared to be put into service at short notice. Civil Protection is the most important resource for rapid response to accidents, fires and floods. Civil protection needs to be strengthened and the recruitment of part-time staff needs to be facilitated so that there is always good emergency preparedness throughout the country. The rescue service is a central part of the total defense. A well-functioning civil protection service strengthens all other parts of the total defence. The preparedness of society also depends entirely on the work of the various NGOs. In order for competence and resources within the various organisations to be fully utilised in, for example, increased preparedness, roles need to be clarified in the relationship between different actors. MSB plays an important role in this work. The voluntary defence organisations will have an increased role in the overall defence and they welcome the fact that their ability to contribute to the overall defence capabilities will be strengthened in the long term. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-204	Madam President, I would like Camilla Hansén highlights many important perspectives in her post. I would like to ask a few questions on the basis of what was mentioned about increasing the protection of forests and soil, among other things. One of the starting points of the work to strengthen total defence and increase our basic preparedness and supply capacity is to make use of natural resources in a sustainable and wise way. We must not least strengthen local entrepreneurship. From this perspective, forest ownership and long-term forestry are crucial for reducing our vulnerability and dependence on the import of fuels. This is a spirit of the resistance work that we have worked with in the Defense Committee. It is also important, not least from a crisis preparedness perspective, to provide the conditions for local enterprise and ownership to develop. This is needed in order to develop fuels and energy opportunities so as to reduce vulnerabilities and increase robustness. How does the Green Party reconcile this with its view of ownership and forestry issues in the future? This also applies to the difficult issues of water protection and hydropower that are now being addressed. Small-scale hydropower is in itself an important resource in the event of crises. It allows the supply of electricity to operate out-of-town throughout the country. There are a lot of issues that need to be put into a holistic perspective. I would like to ask these questions because the honourable Member mentioned the need for increased protection. I take the view that the use of forests should be reduced.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-208	Madam President, I would like Forest policy is an important issue for the Green Party and also for ecosystem services. We need a sustainable ecological system. This is necessary in order for us, for example, to be able to produce enough food in the country. Daniel Bäckström also raises the issue of energy and energy supply. Where we can use bioenergy for fuel, it is wise, especially in the event of a crisis. Then we will not have to depend on, for example, imports of oil. What characterizes the Environmental Party's view of the forest is the overall perspective. You should be able to own and manage your forest wisely for the future. We should be able to use the forest for what we need, but there must be a healthy balance. If we over-exploit what the forest or the earth has to give, it will in the long run inexorably hookbones for us when we are building a strong and resilient society. The honourable Member raises many important questions about sustainability in her comment.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-212	Madam President, I would like We need to be able to keep these issues in parallel in a long-term perspective. Much of our defence work and emergency preparedness work as well as basic everyday preparedness is based on the fact that we have viable companies all over the country. We have resources around us that can be helpful in dealing with the crises. We saw this not least in the forest fire control 2018 but also before. Then the key for these entrepreneurs, these landowners, is to be able to develop their businesses and have the opportunity to know what applies in the long term. There are big questions in the air right now. This may have bearing on our ability to solve our preparedness challenges in the future, so it is extremely important that we in Parliament are clear but also do what we can to provide good conditions for these landowners. The focus should be on ownership, the right to use and the possibility of developing and producing more within this balance. Great efforts are being made to promote the industry. That is why I am asking these questions from the point of view of protecting more. Then the logic of how to get the whole together is a relevant question. After all, we have repeated these practical defence and total defence discussions in committee. Today we are discussing emergency preparedness, and then this is an important piece of the puzzle in how to bring together the practical whole in the long term and promote local development. I thank you for your answer, but we will have to come back with more on these questions, I think.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-216	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Daniel Bäckström that there are major and important issues that need to be considered when it comes to the forest and how we use and protect it in the best way. It really is a question of being in this balance, as the honourable Member mentioned. These are issues that we will be discussing more and more in the spring when it comes to the forest investigation and its treatment. I would also like to emphasise something that I mentioned several times in my main speech, namely the importance of the various actors of industry in terms of preparedness. It includes forest owners, farmers and the whole spectrum of business in society.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-219	Madam President, I would like The time has come to debate the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment on agricultural policy (MJU17). Madam President, I would like The debate that just ended was on emergency preparedness. I must say that it is very appropriate to have this debate on Swedish agriculture just after, because food security is an extremely important part of Swedish crisis preparedness and in the resilience of society. Unfortunately, our food production is too vulnerable. When we stood in this debate last year, the coronapandemy had quite recently broken out. In some places, shop shelves had started to gap empty since citizens began to hoard before possible isolation. Although the issue of food security is not quite as tangible this spring, the issue is at least as topical. Last week the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture held a hearing on the vulnerability of agriculture on the basis of the recent report on the subject presented by the committee. Both the report and the participants at the seminar had a very strong consensus. Swedish agriculture is vulnerable, and Swedish food production must become more robust. We must ensure access to fossil-free fuels, ensure production throughout the country and take measures to deal with both too much and too little water, for example through drainage and irrigation ponds. We must also work towards long-term rules that make agriculture an attractive profession that young people dare to invest in. The vulnerability of agriculture is a matter that the Center Party prioritised during the work on a Swedish food strategy. It is also a priority for us now that the food strategy is to be implemented. This summer a report on fossil-independent agriculture will be presented. Hopefully, it will present concrete proposals on how the transition from imported diesel to domestically produced fossil-free fuels can take place in a competitive way. In the transitional budget for the rural development programme for 2021 and 2022, the Center Party has negotiated a historically high level of Swedish co-financing to compensate for the reductions that have taken place at EU level. A total of over 4.7 billion is invested over two years. Since we have lifted the broadband money out of the rural programme, the sum that is directed at Swedish farmers is larger than it has been before. It is important that this money is really spent on measures that can make agriculture less vulnerable and more equipped for the future. The Center Party has therefore given priority in the negotiations to investments in investment aid and start-up aid, among other things, in order to get new ones that want to start in the industry. But, Madam President, one key issue for reducing the vulnerability of agriculture is competitiveness. Rules, rigid interpretations and lack of long-termism were also clearly highlighted during the committee's vulnerability hearing. In meeting with farmers, reduced regulation is what I experience very often highlighted at the top of the wish list when talking about competitiveness. The number of legal requirements relating to agricultural enterprises increased by 120 per cent in the period 1996 to 2016. The total number of legal requirements for a dairy producer with growing crops is around 450. These are really figures to be taken seriously. The regulatory burden has actually increased regardless of the color of the government. And as much as you'd like, there's no quick fix. From the Center Party we are working to reduce the regulatory burden step by step. In the negotiations with the government, we have pushed through a regulatory simplification package with a focus on faster and simpler licensing processes. A wild boar package for, among other things, simpler rules for the sale of wild boar meat is on the roll to increase the displacement and reduce the damage. The Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with identifying rules that reduce competitiveness in the food chain and propose changes. Furthermore, work is underway with a digital system for fewer government contacts. An investigation into simpler and more effective rules in the licensing process, for example in the construction of dairy stables or biogas, is under way. The Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Food Administration have been given a clearer mandate to focus on the business environment and reduce regulatory issues in their regulatory letters. But more is needed. Madam President, I would like An important piece of the puzzle for meeting the objectives of the food strategy is the EU's agricultural policy. When the next programming period, which we now have before us, ends in 2027, there are not at all very many years left until 2030, when the objectives of the food strategy are to be met. Therefore, 2021 will be an absolutely crucial year for whether or not to meet the goals of the food strategy. On the one hand, the negotiations at EU level will hopefully reach their goal in the spring, and on the other hand, Sweden will decide what measures we want to choose when implementing the so-called strategic plan. We do not yet really know what the regulatory framework at EU level will look like, which means that the work on a Swedish strategic plan will also be a bit like pushing a moving target. But some principles are important to establish. The Swedish strategic plan must be in line with the food strategy. This means that it must have a focus on how production should increase, how vulnerability should decrease, how competitiveness should be strengthened, how sustainability work should be changed and how production throughout the country should be ensured. An important parallel EU process is the Farm to Fork Strategy, the EU Food Strategy. In this respect, the Government must ensure that the ambitious targets that are being discussed about reducing the use of antibiotics and pesticides, for example, do not become an obstacle for Swedish farmers to continue their sustainable use, but instead become a competitive advantage when the rest of Europe has to rise to Swedish levels. Madam President, I would like An important nutrition that is worth paying attention when talking about the green industries is the horse industry. Horse entrepreneurship is a very important part of the green economy, but we need to do more to facilitate this industry. Not least during the coronapandemine, more and more people have become aware of equestrian sports, and the queues for many of Sweden's riding schools are now long. This really is an interest worth taking advantage of. At the moment, in the framework of the January agreement, there are processes that look, among other things, at the rules on building permits for e.g. riding houses, something that we in the Center Party have pushed for simplification of. But even in other areas, such as agricultural policy, we see that the horse is not equated with other farm animals. We see a continued need to work to ensure that the horse industry is more comparable to other agricultural industries. I would also like to highlight the importance of sustainability work in the horse industry. Last year, the eutrophication investigation was presented, and it paid a great deal of attention to the horse industry. Working with reduced nitrogen leaching and phosphorus leaching from pastures is incredibly important. However, as with other agricultural companies, we in the Center Party believe that the best way is through voluntary and knowledge-raising measures. I would therefore like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 21. Finally, it is sometimes easy when you hear the debate about Swedish agriculture to think that the future is very dark. Of course there are challenges. Nevertheless, I would like to say on behalf of the committee that we believe in Swedish agriculture. This morning I read a speech about LRF Kickers. It is a network of children of farmers who meet to make study visits and talk about agriculture, which is their greatest interest. It makes me so very happy that there are new generations of farmers who believe in Swedish agriculture. Because so do I. Swedish agriculture is literally a vital nutrition for Sweden. So to your children and young people out there: Keep believing in a future in agriculture, and in here we will do what we can to make that dream come true!
i-Qm4TthmyD9PBFvHGN13cGm	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-241	Madam President, I would like There are many of us who remember when, seven years ago, Stefan Löfven promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. In speech after speech, debate after debate, article after article the message was hammered in: Only the Social Democrats gain power will Sweden have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Now the Social Democrats have been in power for seven years, but Sweden is far away from the promise that has been made, namely in fifth place from the bottom, along with countries such as Italy and Greece. Nearly 200 000 people are long-term unemployed and at risk of life-long exclusion.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-244	Madam President, I would like Since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, 350 000 more people have received a job, and the start-up period for new arrivals has been halved. Having said that, Sweden is in a deep economic crisis – the deepest since the Second World War. As a result, unemployment has risen and employment has fallen. That is why, as recently as in the spring budget, the government has come up with strong packages aimed precisely at those groups that are at risk of long-term unemployment: young people, new arrivals and people without upper secondary education. However, if we look in a European perspective, there is no other country across the EU where more people go to work every morning than Sweden. My question to Boriana Åberg is therefore: Which labour market among the EU countries does she think Sweden should have instead of the Swedish one?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-247	Madam President, I would like Unemployment will not decrease as long as the government prioritises the benefit line over the work line. For many, it is not worth taking the step from grants to work.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-249	Madam President, I would like It is telling that Boriana Åberg does not answer my question about which EU country the Moderates believe Sweden would imitate when it comes to the labour market. It may possibly have its explanation in that there is no other EU country where as many go to work every morning. That is 350 000 more than when the Moderates ruled and a higher share now, during the crisis, than when the Moderates ruled.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-252	Madam President, I would like AB Svensk Exportkredit is a state-owned company that guarantees credits that Swedish export companies give to their customers. According to its own legal framework, this activity must comply with the Paris Agreement. Recently, the company signed a Memorandum of Understanding guaranteeing credits of SEK 2 billion for a massive expansion of air traffic in Vietnam. This is an affair that we do not necessarily oppose, but I would still like to ask Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan this: If it is the case that the Paris Agreement allows Sweden to guarantee credits for an enormous expansion of air traffic in Vietnam – how is it that the same Paris Agreement according to the Ministry of the Environment, for example, requires us in Sweden to significantly reduce our flying? The number of passengers in Vietnam, for example, is already almost five times greater than in Sweden.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-255	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are in a climate crisis is unequivocal. That we should step by step get away from this is also unambiguous, at least for me and the government. The fact that Sweden is an open, export-dependent country with everything it means is also unambiguous. This means for us that we will gradually make changes both in our country and, of course, in the way we work in other countries. I have to say that I believe that, with the way we work and the way we continue to work in many ways, we will show that it is perfectly possible even to fly in the future. We are not quite there yet, but I think we will be able to do so in a way that does not necessarily add to the climate problems. It is about everything from fuel changes to what is now coming in the form of further new innovations for aviation. As far as individual examples are concerned, Ludvig Aspling knows very well that as a minister I cannot interfere with how companies or, for that matter, authorities act.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-258	Madam President, I would like Now the question was, in itself, the interpretation of the Paris Agreement by the government and not a particular affair. When the government recently decided to close Bromma airport, Minister for Climate and Environment Per Bolund announced that it was partly due to the climate. In this connection, the Green Party referred to the fact that we are in a climate crisis and that the airport must therefore close. But if this climate crisis still allows us to build huge airport complexes in Vietnam, how come we can't keep the little airport Bromma?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-261	Madam President, I would like It is unequivocally clear to everyone, except perhaps the Swedish Democrats, that we are in a climate crisis. It is also clear that we have to change. But I am among those who believe that we can do so in a way that also improves the economy, security and welfare of people, and then we will do so gradually. On the specific issue of Bromma, it is basically a proposal that has come from Swedavia, which is the airport manager. Ludvig Aspling knows that very well.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-264	Madam President, I would like The government has now come forward with the proposals from the Online Concession Investigation. It was a public investigation aimed at speeding up decision-making in the construction of electricity networks. However, it is a perspective that is lacking in the work that the government has now chosen to proceed with, and that is the local perspective. In fact, in order to be able to build a more efficient electricity network in our country, it requires those affected by it to feel involved and be able to influence and understand why this is happening. The state-owned company Svenska Kraftnät, which builds the country's backbone network, has a history of neither sharing its analyses nor being particularly communicative in this work. I think it is well known to several ministers in this House. I would therefore like to ask Minister Anders Ygeman : How does the government work towards increased transparency, increased participation and open and socio-economic analyses with the aim of creating greater acceptance for the forthcoming expansion of the electricity grid?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the question! I think this is a very important aspect. The proposal that we gave to the Swedish Law Council last week and about which we today make decisions in the government is about the biggest cutting of lead times that Sweden has done since electrification. In the case of local networks, such as regional lines, the extension time is halved. But it is also true that Svenska Kraftnät needs to be much better at its consultation process, at listening and at presenting what it is that makes you choose one solution over the other solution. This will be made clear in the electrification strategy initiated by the Government in October – and all parties in the Riksdag have been invited to participate in this work. The final product will now come in October, and then issues of transparency and local acceptance for the major expansion that needs to be done will also be presented.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-268	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Ygeman! Can Ygeman concretise how the perspective of participation, increased transparency and open and socio-economic analyses in order to create just greater acceptance, which is necessary for this faster roll-out with shorter lead times to be possible, is included? Can the Government concretize where this is in the decision you have taken today?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the question! I can certainly do that. Among other things, it is about how we should take help from municipalities and county boards when it comes to making local plans for where the power lines should be drawn up, so stakeholders are present right from the start. And we should remember that the local influence also benefits from having a rapid rate of expansion.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-271	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions. There heavy goods vehicles over 3 million tonnes of emissions are emitted each year. The introduction of a tax or charge on heavy goods vehicles by road is, according to most assessors, the most effective way of reducing emissions from heavy goods vehicles rapidly. The government just made such a proposal, in 2018, in the form of a memorandum on a form of road wear charge for truck transport. Unfortunately, the government has done no more of that proposal. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance: when does the Minister of Finance intend to present a concrete proposal for a road user charge for heavy goods vehicles on the road?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-273	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Jens Holm! Jens Holm raises an important issue, namely how to reduce emissions. A great deal remains to be done in the transport sector. The government has been working on this in recent years. We have taken important steps. This applies not least to the announcement that Tomas Eneroth was able to make last week that we are moving forward with the extension of main roads, which will, of course, be extremely important in terms of being able to take over transport from road to rail. We also want to move on and expand the Norrbotnia Line. The proposal for a road user fee that had been produced met with a great deal of criticism. I believe that some of that criticism was justified. If such a proposal is to be put forward, it must be one that better protects the values that we want to protect with such a tax. At the same time, of course, this must be done properly so as to steer away from heavy traffic and perhaps also towards more environmentally friendly lorries.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-275	Madam President, I would like I would like to inform the Minister of Finance that we already have such charges for the railways today. There are track charges for trains running by rail, and those charges have been increased by over 300% over the last 15 years. However, there is no equivalent charge for heavy road transport, which causes very large emissions. Magdalena Andersson! Why punish the climate-smart train and promote what continues to cause major emissions along our roads?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-277	Madam President, I would like The government has taken strong measures to improve the opportunities for rail transport, including by improving rail maintenance and expanding. There is nothing that corresponds to track charges. On the other hand, CO2 taxation on fuel is a form of rail charge for heavy goods traffic. There is also a very clear fee. And of course there's a discussion there, too, if it's too high. I do not share that view.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-278	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we were able to read an entrepreneur's diary of the corona problem. It takes us on a journey into Byråkratisverige that never seems to end. For Lotta Boman, who is CEO of Sigtunahöjden, the last year has resulted in 95 percent loss of sales. She has had to lay off 75 percent of the staff – the rest of the staff has been laid off at 80 percent. A lot of administration and time is spent trying to do everything right according to the rules and guidelines that exist. The frustration is that applications have not been simplified and the information has not improved sufficiently during this time. It is still reported almost daily about the long processing times, which in themselves become a problem for entrepreneurs on the brink of bankruptcy. Against this background, my question today goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson : What could the government have done differently over the past year?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-282	Madam President, I would like We have developed completely new support that has never existed in Sweden before. We have done so at record speed, and the authorities handling this have had to work with great intensity to be able to pay out the money. There is a big difference compared to when the alliance government ruled during the financial crisis when it handled Swedish business in a completely different way from what we have done during this crisis. But when you come up with new aid and this type of aid payments, it is always a balance. This is also true of private health insurance, but also of taxation. There is always a balance between that it should be simple and that there should be control of payments. There is always a balance to be struck. And we have received alarm reports that there is not enough control and that money has ended up in wrong pockets – we got that only today, in Dagens Nyheter. The assessment is that it is important to find an appropriate path. If we pay out money without control, we are in danger of fattening the serious criminal activity.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-285	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Nevertheless, I do not think I really got an answer to my question. But you often talk about the fact that it is historical sums that have been invested in these emergency aid payments and that it is good. We agree with that. You often also refer to the fact that investigations must show what could have been done better. But it is possible to simplify and improve. You have to want to. Is it really reasonable for it to take up to six to twelve months to receive the aid promised?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-286	Madam President, I would like If it takes 12 months to get a subsidy paid, you'll probably be stuck in a lot of controls. There must then be a lot of questions about that company. At the moment, very many payments are made within a few days or a few weeks. If it takes longer, it's because you're stuck in control. We can't pay out money without control. It's taxpayers' money. They can't end up in the wrong pockets. There are examples of that, and I can never accept that.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-289	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. How do we know we know? It is a philosophical issue, but it is also a very serious issue in research today. Over the past few years, more and more people in academia have begun to warn that there is a so-called replication crisis. Many scientific studies cannot be repeated, or repetitions do not show the same results. This must be taken seriously. Compared to countries such as Austria and the Netherlands, Sweden is only at the beginning of taking this seriously. The replication crisis is also not new and it is not limited to an individual field of research. The problem lies in everything from genetics to economics. How will the Government act on the replication crisis?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-293	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Nilsson for the question. This is not a new issue, and it is also an issue that requires a great deal of responsibility, not least in terms of trust and confidence in the work that is being done in the scientific community. Of course, we need to take further action on the part of the policy. I am convinced that with the good cooperation that we have in the middle of Swedish policy on higher education and research, we can also address this issue.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-296	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We live in an age when the resistance to facts is extensive and the criticism of sources is often flawed, which puts the question under the loop. In an article we liberals have proposed to the government that the Swedish Research Council should be formally tasked with mapping the replication crisis in Sweden and compiling studies and studies on the problem. How does the Government view this proposal?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-299	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. This is an issue which, of course, we have to deal with in the good cooperation we have in the middle of Swedish politics. Together, we have just presented a historically well-processed research proposal with 13.6 billion and many new assignments to our authorities and our science society. I am absolutely convinced that this is something that we can deal with together after the usual preparation.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-303	Madam President, I would like Now the spread of infection is at high levels in several parts of the country, and we need to continue to hold on and endure in order to save lives and health. But as we know, the pandemic has also hit the Swedish economy hard. To meet the pandemic, the government has now presented a spring change budget with major measures for more people to work and targeted measures for children and young people to get through the pandemic. At the same time, it is still a strained economic situation for many. Several companies are struggling to get the business going, and many employees are worried about their future livelihoods.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-306	Madam President, I would like The government has taken historically large crisis measures to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. It is of course important to support health care and care for the elderly and those who lose their jobs due to the crisis. It is 400 billion, and it is a big difference from how the alliance government managed the financial crisis. Short-term lay-off is the largest support available to support the Swedish jobs. Over half a million Swedes who would otherwise have risked unemployment can now be confident that they have a job to go back to instead be short-term laid off. We presented a record budget last autumn. In addition, it is estimated that 75 000 more people are employed this year but would have been out of work without the government's historic measures in last year's budget, in addition to short-term lay-offs.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-309	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is good that the government is taking major measures to save jobs, but the situation on the Swedish labour market is still serious. How does the Swedish labour market, the Minister for Finance, stand up in an international comparison? What weaknesses and strengths do the Minister for Finance see?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-311	Madam President, I would like Sweden has managed well through the economic policy crisis compared to many other countries. Sweden is one of the countries where the bnp has fallen less than others. We also see that more people go to work every morning in Sweden than in any other EU country. In addition, we have a high participation rate. Many are on the labour market, not least women and women born abroad. It is important to maintain through the crisis.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-312	Madam President, I would like On Monday, Sveaskog held its general meeting. They have just presented a biodiversity strategy. This is something I welcome, but more is needed than what Sveaskog has now presented. Above all, the words need to go to action. There needs to be work on transparency, a reasonable financial framework and dialogue and follow-up. How does Ibrahim Baylan view the opportunity to strengthen ownership dialogue and civil dialogue with Sveaskog and follow up their strategy?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-315	Madam President, I would like Forest policy is based on two equal objectives, the environmental objective and the production target. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is also important in the transition to a bio-based society and for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The state must be a forerunner in sustainable forestry and show great consideration for nature. The state owns forests through Sveaskog and is involved in the regulation through government agencies. The steps that Sveaskog is now taking with its efforts and strategic focus to promote sustainable forestry are very positive, and I believe that the company can clearly set an example in the forestry sector for sustainable forestry in a commercial and long-term perspective. We will, of course, follow this in dialogues and in the work done by the Board and in operational management.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-318	Madam President, I would like I thank Ibrahim Baylan for his reply. With demands from civil society and Sveaskog's own strategy, I wonder if a new owner directive follows the same priority and sets the environmental objectives as the economic framework for the business. How does Ibrahim Baylan view such a new ownership directive?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-320	Madam President, I would like We place great demands on state-owned companies, within the framework of the directives adopted by the Riksdag, to set an example. The ownership policy we have established places high demands on the state companies, including Sveaskog. The active work will, of course, continue. However, there are no proposals to submit new ownership directives to the Riksdag.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-322	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Anders Ygeman. According to the broadband strategy Sweden fully connected in 2025, Sweden should have access to fast broadband in 2025. Access to broadband is a prerequisite for being fully involved in society, for companies to develop, for new companies to be created and for jobs in all parts of the country. Several Skåne municipalities see shortcomings in access to broadband outside urban areas. It's between 40 and 60 percent. The target set by the government for 2020 is 95 percent. As early as 2019, PTS reported that additional resources were needed.
i-EabJpoEudY5CegBF7JQ7kK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Sander, for the question! All of Sweden should have access to fast connection, and all Skåne should have access to fast connection. Over the past year, broadband growth in the country has been 3 per cent in its entirety. Up to 95 per cent of Swedes now have access to fast connectivity in their immediate vicinity, and in sparsely populated areas outside urban areas growth has been 9 per cent over the past year. In the last budget, we spent a lot of money on broadband roll-out. We sevenfolded the grant. It's because, as Mats Sander says, every show should have access to fast connectivity. The citizens of the rest of Sweden will also have that, and I have good hopes that with the means that we have provided, we will achieve that goal.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-330	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Finance. Since the 00s, Sweden's international aid has been allowed to grow and grow from just under SEK 15 billion to forecast nearly SEK 55 billion. We are now in a period of enormous needs at home as a result of the government's negating and avoiding making decisions on much-needed initiatives. We have an under-funded justice system and an under-funded pension system, among other things, and we have also taken huge costs associated with the covid-19 pandemic. The Swedish Democrats have therefore come to the conclusion that we must halve aid from the current levels. It would free up space for other, much more needed investments in Sweden. My question is whether the Minister for Finance is prepared to make a similar priority and invest more in Sweden and less in other countries on the other side of the world.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-335	Madam President, I would like This pandemic has taught us many things. One of them is how connected we are on earth and how dependent we are on each other. What happens in China affects us here. A mutated virus in Brazil comes to Sweden. Further mutations in India affect us here in Sweden. We will never be able to restart the world economy or return to a normal life here in Sweden until we have reached a sufficient level of vaccination throughout the world. Global vaccination is the only way we can get out of the pandemic - and the third world, the developing countries, will never do this without the support of us in the rich part of the world. In this situation, to cut aid in the way proposed by the Swedish Democrats is simply to send a boomerang. It comes right back in our face and knocks us out with another mutation.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-339	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Baylan, who is responsible for the state companies. Postnord now announces a bi-day distribution across the country to our households. But in Swedish Radio last Thursday, the CEO of Postnord sketched out that in the near future there can be postal distribution once a week. It has caused a lot of anxiety and thought. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs think of such a development as owner of the company?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-342	Madam President, I would like Yes, we all know the history of Postnord's merger with the Danish post office and all the problems it has created – all the costs it has created, not least for the Swedish part. Add to this, Madam President, a falling amount of letters for digitisation reasons. Clearly, there is a need to make changes. However, it is not for Postnord to decide for himself, Madam President, but according to the laws and rules that this House takes a position on. Whether or not the CEO of Postnord speculates is not interesting, but rather what we have in terms of legislation and requirements on how often it should be distributed. In my opinion, this should be done on the basis of the needs of our country, of the Swedish people. How it will then be paid after the thorough economic experiments started ten years ago through the merger with the Danish post remains to be answered, both in budgets and in this Parliament.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-346	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Higher Education, Matilda Ernkrans. Health care is heavily burdened, and it was long before the pandemic. The large shortage of specialist nurses makes it difficult to staff important positions in healthcare. Operations are cancelled for lack of surgical nurses. Future mothers travel long distances because of the lack of midwives. A large proportion of the X-ray nurses are approaching retirement. Successful initiatives with advanced clinical specialist nurses are at risk of standing up. Being able to deepen their skills and specialise in the profession is important for the attractiveness of the nursing profession. But the number of training places is not enough. The teachers are waiting to hear about the future of specialist training.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-350	Madam President, I would like We can only conclude that since Stefan Lövven's government took office, we have expanded higher education in our country. Compared to 2016, there were about 41,000 more students in Swedish college in the autumn of 2020. In the case of specialist nurses, 36 per cent more have been admitted to specialist nursing education now compared to 2014, and examinations in health care have increased by 17 per cent. Further development of higher education in specialist nursing training is extremely important. The problem is that the Christian Democrats are not really responding to the policy of higher education throughout our country to cope with the supply of skills.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-354	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Higher Education Matilda Ernkrans. We have extensive problems in higher education with cheating on the university test. The government announced a bill in the spring, but unfortunately it was suddenly shot at the future. We also see extensive general problems with cheating and a record number of complaints about disciplinary measures that universities have presented. To this only the other day was reported that there are false degrees sold outside the academy. You can get a diploma from a teacher's education, taken from Syria, for SEK 4,000. My question to the government and Matilda Ernkrans is: when are these measures coming, and is the government prepared to broaden the package of measures so that we can tackle not only the university test but the serious crime in higher education in general?
i-SidMuyPbaykk9VczNb1gF5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the question! Cheating is always unacceptable. That is also why this government has taken a number of measures to get to the very cheating on the university test. There are also prepared further steps to be taken with regard to the university test. The assessment that was made of this was to put it a little bit on the future because we are currently in a pandemic and have had to devote a lot of time and effort to being able to carry out the university test infection-proof. Now the focus is on continuing to carry out the higher education test for infection-proof for those who are entitled to write the higher education exam, but I assure you that only we have made it through this pandemic we will of course take further action in relation to the cheating of the higher education exam. As far as disciplinary matters in higher education are concerned, there is an absolute need for new tools. We're ready to come back.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-364	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. I represent Västmanland, which is Sweden's most export-dependent county, and my question concerns the importance of industry for Sweden's success. Ever since the industrial revolt in the Wen, industry has brought Sweden's growth forward and contributed to the society that we live today. Ten years ago, however, the general picture conveyed by the then government was that industry had played its part. Prime Minister Reinfeldt even expressed it as saying that the Swedish base industry was My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore whether the Minister for Economic Affairs believes that Swedish industry is something to invest in. Or is it, as the former Prime Minister said, basically gone?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Olle Thorell, for an important question! It is correct, as Olle Thorell says, that more than a decade ago there was a discussion that industry had been good but belonged to history; the future was something else. You might think so. What was problematic, however, was that the policy was also geared to this. This meant that insufficient efforts were made to support the Swedish industry. From the time we took over with Stefan Löfven in 2014, with his history in industry, we have invested a great deal in strengthening the conditions for Swedish industry. And fortunately, Madam President, we can now see huge investments, both in reindustrialisation and in a conversion industry that is emerging. It is about everything from carbon-free steel and battery factories to biorefineries, etc., which allows us to look to the future with an industry that is not only flourishing but is also showing the way to live sustainably in the future.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-373	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance and I have had a number of debates in which I have questioned the introduction or planned climate and environmental taxes of the Red Green Government and their real benefits. The plastic bag tax, the chemical tax, the clothing tax and the planned Takeaway tax are all so-called environmental taxes, which, in my opinion, hamper both Sweden's competitiveness and jobs and put obstacles in the way of innovations that could make real environmental benefits, not just in Sweden. Now it is not just me who questions this, but the outside world seems to feel a little the same. Sweden is no longer a leading country for a greener world. Last week, the United States invited Sweden to a climate summit in which, according to some assessors, Sweden was allowed to sit at the children's table and, according to others, was given a place in the hall. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Finance is whether the Red-Green Government intends to release the current placard policy so that Sweden can once again sit at the adult table.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-376	Madam President, I would like It is a little parody that the Moderates are addressing climate and environmental policy. Every time the Moderates have presented draft budgets to Parliament, there have been very substantial cuts in climate and environmental policy. It claims that the policy implemented by the government is ineffective, but it does not have its own proposals for a more effective policy. It is often referred to the Konjunkturinstitutet, which has pointed out, for example, that the bonus system – malus is not effective enough. But what we forget to say is that what the Institute of Economic Affairs proposes as the most effective instrument is an increased carbon tax. There the Moderates want to go in the opposite direction. The moderates represent the least effective and have a much lower ambition. With the Moderates at the handlebar, we would not be allowed to sit at any table at all.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-380	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Enterprise. In a recent interview, Minister of Economic Affairs Baylan stated that new mines are needed if we are to succeed in electrification and that we cannot just ooze when we read that cobalt is extracted by children's workers in Congo. I share this view and welcome the views of the Government, but would like answers on how this harmonizes with the fact that the members of the two government parties here in Parliament have consistently delayed and rejected all the proposals aimed at clarifying and simplifying the licensing processes that regulate the mining industry, which could have created the conditions for opening up new mines that are needed to enable electrification and, at the same time, making us less dependent on metals and minerals from regions where child labour is common.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-382	Madam President, I would like We want to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We want to be so because it is a natural development, which both becomes more sustainable and leads to more green jobs and economic growth in our country. We also want to show that this is quite possible, and it requires large-scale electrification of industry, transport and the housing sector. We know that then, with the technology we have today, access to innovation-critical minerals and metals is required. Madam President, both in Sweden and in the European Union, we are very dependent on the import of many of these minerals and metals. It can't go on like that. It is against this background that the government as a whole has set up an investigation to enable a regulatory framework that makes this possible, but also that we can recover much of what we are digging up, so that we do not have to keep digging up. We must not pretend that there are no conflicts of interest there. Of course it does, and we'll be able to handle them.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-386	Madam President, I would like It has now been five years since the government presented its broadband strategy, which indicates how much of the population should have access to fast broadband. By 2025, it should be everyone. The other week, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency presented its report for 2020, which shows that we did not meet the sub-target for 2020: that 95% would have a fast connection. The Pandemine has set its mark on the needs of the population at a cataclysm. You sit at home and take part in everything from home schooling to homework and so on at the same time. It requires that we have a good connection. This is also about the whole of Sweden. I therefore wonder, with reference to the previous question put by a Member on the accounts, whether the government can promise that the whole of Sweden will have access to rapid broadband by 2025.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for the question. The answer is a simple yes. In 2020 we went from 92 to 95% who had access to fast connectivity in their immediate vicinity. The target is 100 per cent, of which 98 per cent shall have access to 100 megabits per second and 2 per cent shall have access to 30 megabits per second, according to the parliamentary decisions taken on the target. This means, then, that if we keep up with the current rate, the target will be achieved by 2025. What is particularly gratifying about PTS's figures is that connectivity is increasing three times faster in sparsely populated areas than in urban areas and in the rest of the country. I therefore have good hopes that, with the seven-folding of broadband support presented by the government in the budget, we will achieve the objective of ensuring that everyone has access to high-speed connectivity by 2025.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-392	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Liberals have demanded that the government report a timetable for how Sweden will open up after the corona restrictions. Today, the government announced that the Swedish Public Health Agency has been tasked with presenting when and how Sweden will return to a more normal situation. Commenting on the media, we are also talking about a new normal situation and that we cannot fully return to the society we had before 2020. That is why I wonder, Madam President, whether the Government can account for what rights and freedoms we have enjoyed in Sweden are to be abolished indefinitely in the new normal situation. I also wonder if the Minister for Economic Affairs has a message for Sweden's entrepreneurs, who are already on their knees. Should this type of restriction remain in place for several years to come?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-394	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for an important question! Already at the beginning of the pandemic last year, in April, there was a fairly clear and intense discussion about when an end date could be set for the pandemic and its effects. Since then, we have learned that it is not easy to predict the pandemic and the virus. Now we are in a situation where we have great hope, because vaccination is now under way. We put great hope in what it can lead to. Against this background, Madam President, we have given the mission that Joar Forssell is talking about. We have done so with the humble realization that, of course, it will not be just as before. There will be changes. We also know that we are dealing with a virus that can very well mutate. We must, of course, be prepared to take action in this situation too.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-396	Madam President, I would like House prices in Sweden are running. The average price for a villa in my hometown Gothenburg is now 6,872,000 SEK. This is an increase of almost 16% in one year. The increase in prices means that fewer families with children can afford to get their housing calculations together. Even today, it is difficult to afford to buy your own house with a nurse's salary or a police salary. With this development, only high wage earners can soon afford to buy their own home in our big cities. At the same time, the debate is increasing in favour of a reinstated property tax. It would make it even more difficult for ordinary employees in Gothenburg, for example, to own their home. My question to the Minister for Finance is how she feels about reintroducing a property tax that will make it even more difficult for families with children to own their own home.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-398	Madam President, I would like The answer is simple. I'm here as Minister of Finance. There is no work going on in the government on this and there are no plans in the government to reintroduce a property tax.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-399	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister E rnkrans. Just as Haddad mentioned before, SVT reported on Tuesday that it is easy to obtain false diplomas, mainly from Syria, from which about 60 percent of the false evidence comes. The problem is increasing. The degree certificates can easily be ordered through contacts that can be accessed online. The man with whom SVT came in contact and who sells diplomas says in the interview: The evidence is not registered, but it doesn't matter, because in Sweden they still don't check the records.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-402	Madam President, I would like I feel very confident that our responsible authorities are actually catching up with this problem and are also dealing with it wisely. Of course, if further action is needed, it is not something that the government is alien to.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-404	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Ernkrans. The search pressure to colleges and universities has now increased in the pandemic. Skillfully, the government already started in 2014 a rather large expansion of higher education. Luleå University of Technology has also received more seats, but northern Sweden is now facing huge investments, and we will need all the skills we can get. Therefore, my question to the Government is: What is the government doing to ensure that higher education efforts are fairly distributed throughout the country, and what is being done to ensure that higher education is available throughout the country?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-405	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Karkiainen, for the question. The honourable Member really points out how important it is that we continue to invest in both knowledge and research throughout the country in order to be able to meet not least the development power that exists in different parts of the country. For this very reason, it is important that we have a higher education and research system that distributes training places and research funding across the country. That is how this government works on this. There is broad support for this in the middle of Swedish politics. This means that we can also answer up to not only the educational needs that can be found in the northern part of Sweden but also in other parts of the country. Another 19 000 new places of study are available at our higher education institutions and universities this year alone, 2021. It's about 6,000 new summer courses. This is an absolute top priority for this government.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-408	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. In the Education Committee today, we were drawn by the Swedish National Audit Office on a recent matter. It was about the government's targeted efforts to get more students to study education in the deficiency professions and if it had produced results. Unfortunately, the answer was no. It was even the case that some courses had fewer students than before the initiative, for example the pre-school teacher training. Some of the courses had more applicants, such as engineering, but they had not received the initiative. It is worrying that the investments have not worked. Furthermore, there was quite a lot of criticism that they had not been evaluated. It had not been seen whether there was a goal fulfillment. The Government has not reported so that the Riksdag can take part of it or follow it up. Thus, it sounds as if the bets have not really worked. Many teachers also said that they were not prepared for the initiatives and that they did not even fit in with the courses. My question to the Minister is: how can we improve these efforts, if we are to keep them, so that they produce results?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-411	Madam President, I would like The government will of course reply to the Swedish National Audit Office's report to the Riksdag in normal order, but I can still give some comments. It is clear that we always need to think about whether there are things that can be done better, but we should also be well aware that in comparison with 2016, for example, there are 41 000 more registered students in higher education. We have increased the number of degrees in health care by 17% and by 16% in pre-school education, and many more have started on lack of vocational training. That was the purpose, of course, for more people to train in the deficiency professions. There's still a lot to learn. But without these efforts we would have far fewer trained nurses, specialist nurses and teachers in Sweden today, and they are needed.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-415	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Y geman. The government has recently submitted a proposal for a reduction obligation that calls for increased involvement of biofuels. The bill, if adopted by the Riksdag, will result in significant annual price increases for both petrol and diesel. It will also lead to up to 110 000 cars not being able to run on ordinary petrol. Higher fuel prices are hitting rural areas, families with children, agriculture and forestry and against the millions of people who depend on the car. This proposal takes the form of a hidden tax increase. At least that's the effect for ordinary people. My question to Anders Ygeman and the government is: What is the message to the millions of people who depend on the car and who will now be affected every year over the next ten years by significant price increases at the pump?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-418	Madam President, I would like Firstly, it is not certain that the effect will be the one expressed by Martin Kinnunen. The government has so far compensated by reducing the tax on biofuels. Secondly, Martin Kinnunen should be pleased that by doing so we are free from dependence on oil, i.e. dependence on oil which we import from the Middle East and other countries. This makes it possible to strengthen Swedish preparedness alongside the great and important mission to cope with the climate crisis, so that more and more people in our country can refuel increasingly greener. This is of course very important not least for sparsely populated areas. It is also in sparsely populated areas that much of the biofuels we will be using are produced. It brings new revenues and new vitality.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-421	Madam President, I would like Gige economics or on demand economy is about labour being hired just when it is needed. Gigging has both crisised and expanded during the pandemic. Gig workers in the cultural sector have become unemployed while those who supply food have become a common sight in our urban environments. Views of the game vary: freedom of workers and development of consumers versus exploitation of labour and difficulties in controlling activities from a tax point of view. The effects of gibberishing on the labour market and tax policy can be enormous. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance whether there are any talks between the Minister for Finance and Labour on the challenges of the gig economy and whether there are any plans for investigations and missions to the authorities.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-423	Madam President, I would like Sultan Kayhan raises a very important issue. It is fundamentally positive that new technologies can create new services, new business opportunities and new jobs. At the same time, of course, labour law and tax rules apply to everyone. You don't get away with your employer's responsibility for conveying services through an app. It pisses me off when I see companies trying to use apps as an excuse to tax, not take employer responsibility or dump wages and conditions. There are positive examples. The Transport Workers' Association has organised platform workers and also signed collective agreements. It is an important way forward. The state also has a responsibility. Of course, the Tax Agency must also check these services. The Minister for Labour has an investigation into the work environment, because it is important that it is clear who is responsible for the work environment, even if you provide services via an app.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-429	Madam President, I would like A little over a year ago, during the Parliamentary Question Time, I raised my concerns about the results of the PISA survey. Unfortunately, I had to answer that it was sad that I tried to black out the Swedish school. Today, we take note of the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which states that neither the Government nor the Swedish National Agency for Education has followed up on the suspicions of errors in implementation that both the media and the Swedish Parliament's Education Committee have presented – an implementation where students who have been deemed to have too little knowledge of Swedish were not even allowed to take the test. This, of course, gives a misleading result of how Sweden's students are doing. I don't believe in painting problems, but we have to lift them up to the surface to have a chance to do something about them. My general political question for this reason is: Will the government take on board the criticisms of the National Audit Office and let all students take the test so that we get a result and can get a real hold of the problems?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-433	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that there should be no beauty, especially not something as important as our school and our school results. It is clear, regardless of individual measurements, that the Swedish knowledge results have turned upwards in recent years. This has been seen in a large number of both national and international studies. That is good but not good enough, because we still have shortcomings. Since the presentation of the Pisa survey in 2018, it has been known that it had a high degree of exclusion. Nevertheless, the survey clearly shows that this is a result for students who have completed their entire schooling in Swedish school. It is not correct that the honourable Member says that the government has not taken action. For example, we have asked the OECD to look through this. Now the Swedish National Audit Office notes that it was not enough and criticises the Swedish National Agency for Education. We will of course read the Swedish National Audit Office's important report properly and learn from it.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-437	Madam President, I would like The government has presented, in line with a notice, the proposal to increase the possibilities for customs to intervene against crime. Customs should now be able to act on its own instead of having to depend on whether the police have time to come. In its opinion, the Customs Service considers that the proposal does not entail any higher costs as it does not specify that they should check more. Today, customs uses only 2% of their control capacity for outgoing traffic. Foreign theft leagues are estimated to account for 90% of all thefts, and especially rural areas are affected. These include housing offences, theft of agricultural and construction machinery, boat engines and car parts. It can also be about wild animals, birds' eggs plundered from nests and ancient monuments.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-441	Madam President, I would like The government is determined to expand controls on foreign theft leagues. They're supposed to be stopped before they steal. Stealing they will be stopped in Sweden. Therefore, the government has made a substantial expansion of the authority responsible for preventing and prosecuting crimes and arresting thieves: the Police Authority. 5,000 more police employees will be 10,000 more police employees. In addition, we are looking at whether the police should be given additional powers in border areas in order to better stop international theft leagues. So it's the police's responsibility. Of course, customs should also be able to help, but it is the police who are professionals at stopping thieves. The exchange of tasks between authorities does not solve problems. We will not receive higher pensions if the Social Insurance Agency pays the pension instead of the Pension Agency. But of course customs should be able to help.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-445	Madam President, I would like Not far from here, in Kungsängen outside Stockholm, there are 230 soldiers that this congregation has decided to go on a mission in Mali. They're leaving their families and friends, and they're going to Mali in full range. But they are not fully equipped because they have not received covid-19 vaccines. Although the UN recommends all members of the operation to vaccinate their soldiers, Sweden sends 230 people without vaccines. My question to Ibrahim Baylan is: how is it that the government has not taken the initiative that these soldiers should receive vaccines before they leave? Aren't they socially important personnel?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-447	Madam President, I would like That was a very specific question. In order for the honourable Member to have an adequate and correct answer, I recommend that she ask a written question. Or we can get back to you by e-mail.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-452	Madam President, I would like It is a pity that Members leave the Chamber after the vote – it should be the opposite, that everyone stays and listens to this important debate on agricultural policy! Maybe that's the most important thing we have. We are therefore debating MJU17 agricultural policy. First of all, I support reservation number 6. Our eminent President had his speech before all the adjournments, and that was very wise. I will probably repeat many of those things, and for that I apologise. I hope, however, that there will also be some new developments. In the spring, as I said, we are entering into final negotiations on the new EU agricultural policy – hopefully. It was run on site by our rural minister. There is one thing that we are going to land down there to get a new agricultural policy to Sweden in the best possible way, but when we are then going to incorporate the Swedish model of the new common agricultural policy, it is incredibly important that it becomes wise and good for Swedish agriculture in many ways. We are, of course, talking about regulatory simplification and competitiveness, and we are talking about the importance of preserving our natural pastures for biodiversity. All these things are concerns that have been highlighted in Swedish agriculture for a long time, both simplification and competitiveness as well as pastures and that the amount of grazing animals is decreasing in Sweden. These are problem points, which is why it is important that the new policy actually improves the conditions for this in a good and sensible way. One of the most important things in this new one is, of course, that we must not enter a new agricultural policy period where EU aid does not come out to farmers on time. It's incredibly important. About a year ago, we finally highlighted agriculture as a socially important sector in Sweden, which makes it all the more important that money that should benefit agriculture comes at the right time. Now I think that it is beginning to catch up with most of the debacle that took place in 2015 and 2016 because the subsidies did not come out in time and that all farmers have received their money. It's time, as I said. It was the CAP. A few things at European level that concern me and which I am concerned about – they may also be great opportunities for the future – are the new EU strategies, including Farm to Fork and the biodiversity strategies. It highlights everything from how we should use plant nutrients and plant protection to how we should devote ourselves to land provisions for different production systems – conventionally or ecologically – and that we should set aside land for only biodiversity and more. I find this a little interesting. I read a report from the USDA, the United States Department of Agriculture, which talks about these strategies, if they are implemented at EU level, and it will be as it is said, leading to 22 million people's starvation – these are quite serious figures – because production at EU level is going to fall so much. This is very worrying. When we go down from Sweden and are going to negotiate these issues for the EU's new strategies, it is incredibly important that we also raise here the points we talked about earlier regarding simplification and competitiveness. It is also important that we do not go over such crazy things as they highlight with plant nutrition and plant protection, where land use with production orientations is to be determined. This is, of course, an interference with ownership and the right to use, but it can also be a threat to self-sufficiency across the EU. I see some other threats to increased production in Sweden. It is about the issues that we in the Moderates tend to raise. It is about taxes – about the increased special taxes we have in Sweden. We have a big concern with animal rights activists who are hitting Swedish agriculture. Farmers themselves point out in the Agricultural Survey that they find it difficult to have government contacts and government work versus agriculture. The rules are highlighted, as usual – every time in these barometers. We might need to look at some form of one-stop shop for farmers in order to reduce the number of government contacts; digitalisation in today's society should not be impossible. Here comes the next question, namely the extension of fibre. This presupposes that we have fibre for all agricultural holdings in rural areas. This particular issue of regulatory uncertainty is interesting. We have talked about it so incredibly many times in the Swedish parliament when it comes to agriculture. One mission after another is given, and even within the food strategy, packages are added to investigate the regulatory issue. A while ago we received figures for the period 1996–2016. The number of legal requirements in agriculture has increased by 120 per cent during this period. During the same time, the number of requirements for keeping records has increased by 350 percent. The number of requests for permits and notifications to authorities has increased by over 400 percent at this time. The figures do not really concern the last 20 years, but almost. We stand here and say in every debate we have that we should make it easier to be a farmer and that we should reduce the regulatory and administrative burden, but that is exactly the opposite. It is clear that this has increased strongly, in fact, regardless of the colour of the government, but the responsibility has been with the representatives of this government for a number of years. We can't do this. It is a great burden for Swedish agriculture. Magnus Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats sometimes highlights this question: When will the farmer have time to be a farmer? There is something in this. It is still the case that many of our agricultural entrepreneurs are one-man or few-person businesses. Yet we place such an administrative burden on them – that is quite unreasonable. The next question we are going to ask ourselves whether we have now increased all these demands as forcefully as we have done is: What problems are we going to solve by imposing these increased demands? What problems are we going to solve with that? Do we really have such problems in Sweden that we need to burden the industry with this many rules and problems? I think we should think about this properly. We shall also ensure that the intentions of the food strategy become a reality now. There are nine years left; our President mentioned it. By 2030 we shall have achieved the intentions of the food strategy. Then we should have turned all these curves and increased our production. At the same time, the amount of dairy farmers is halved in ten years. There is a risk that in ten years' time, instead of about 3 000 dairy farmers today, we will have 1 500 dairy farmers who will deliver more than 3 000 dairy farmers today. The milk, as we say here, is the engine of Swedish agriculture. This is a good factor for reading how Swedish agriculture is doing. There are some other concerns that I think are important to raise. The lack of veterinarians is a very important issue. It's about vets all over the country. No farmer, when standing with a severe calving at two o'clock in the morning, should have to call a veterinarian and hear that the veterinarian will be here in three hours. This must not be the case in a socially important sector such as agriculture and food production. There are, of course, opportunities, and the food strategy is important. It will be implemented, and we will achieve our goals in the food strategy. This will require better profitability, which is the recurring issue. Without profitability, we will not deliver increased production. We will not deliver what is necessary for a strengthened preparedness. Nor will we deliver the environmental and climate benefits that we require of Swedish agriculture today and which we know Swedish agriculture can deliver. The question comes back to the government. You have now been sitting for a number of years – since 2014. The food strategy has come along in the meantime, and action plans have been developed. But when will this come about? When will farmers see that there is actually a difference? When will we turn the curves and increase our production? It is up to the government to respond to this.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-477	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time-winning I only call for reservation 7 on competitiveness and simplification of the rules. The food strategy is good but not enough. More initiatives are needed to simplify rules. We Swedish democrats deliver them. More initiatives are needed for innovation, technology development and technology diffusion. We'll deliver them. There is a need for a greater understanding of the industries involved in both regulatory and regulatory developments. We'll deliver it. But above all, higher profitability is needed. Through tax reductions and compensation for additional requirements, we make Swedish agriculture more profitable directly. One cannot wait for the food strategy's measures to increase profitability, and one cannot make demands of change without increased profitability. Directly increased profitability instead gives a strong position for the industry to start from and to tackle all the issues that both the industry and the citizens want to solve, such as increased food production, increased environmental friendliness and reduced climate gas emissions. It provides capital, faith in the future and opportunities. I think you recognise this Swedish democratic analysis by now and what we want with Swedish agriculture. That is why I intend to focus on the European dimension in the rest of the speech. My colleague John Widegren from the Moderates well highlighted the European dimension, which is creeping in and intruding more and more. Everything is obviously to be resolved at European level these days. Sweden is a forest country with elements of agriculture rather than the other way round, which is the commonplace in the leading EU countries. This means that our conditions are different, and in the near future it is every question. Sweden is hardly ever on the EU average. For Sweden, therefore, it is important that too much is not centralised from Brussels. We need to have a great deal of flexibility for the Member States. The new agricultural support rules in the EU, which regulate so much of agriculture and the lives of farmers, would be flexible. Much would be left to each Member State. To some extent, this seems to be the case precisely with regard to the rules on aid. But the European Commission cannot help but be tricky, because, as John Widegren says, in parallel with the new rules, a whole series of documents have been produced: the green man, the strategy from farm to table, the biodiversity strategy, the taxonomy rules on sustainable investment, a forestry strategy and, most recently, an action plan for increased organic production. And inside the organic production action plan is the seed of the next document that defines, limits and makes impossible – one to taxonomy document to determine mandatory minimum requirements for what is considered sustainable public procurement. It's like the Russian babushka dolls – a doll in a doll, in a doll. They all contain what will be detailed rules to be followed by Member States under the supervision of the European Commission. In addition, they are designed without any understanding of Swedish reality. The combination of lack of flexibility and lack of understanding of Swedish conditions is a toxic combination for Sweden and Swedish industries. Many of the documents contain a frightening and moralizing text, precise numerical targets drawn from a hat and carelessness with the references, hip! It is not without my longing back to the past when the European Commission was dry, grey, bureaucratic and fact-oriented. The current European Commission has so far thrown everything all over to pursue its emotional goals. Impact assessments are considered to be possible later, after setting the targets. Yeah, you heard me right. Swedish self-determination will be considerably reduced if everything in these documents enters into force, and it will do so as long as Swedish politicians are evasive. And after these documents come even more. It is up to us politicians to react. We must speak out at an early stage and clearly. This applies, of course, to those of you who like the European Union, because otherwise the European Union will be transformed into something that you do not like either. I would like to dwell for a moment on precisely binding figures. The European Commission has set half a dozen such targets in the agricultural sector alone. There are more outside, such as a 20% reduction in fertilizers by 2030 and nutrient losses by 50% in nine years. That might sound good. In that case, you should stop and think about why the goals, if they are so good, have not been achieved before. Well, the thing is that any proposed change can have consequences for other values. The problem with numerically binding targets is that they short-term the possibility of taking balanced decisions. It may be known what you are getting when it comes to reducing fertiliser use, for example. However, the effects on eutrophication, climate, food production and rural areas are not known. Without binding numerical targets, it is free to take account of other things and to adapt the objectives and measures to the demands and changes of reality and to the insights gained along the way. Well, there will probably be some flexibility in the name of honesty in the figures but mostly in terms of method and only a little in terms of how far you have already come. It should also be said, to be honest, that Sweden also has inventions that are unrealistic and unbalanced. The horse industry recently suffered a series of proposals in a SOU that would make it very difficult for the horse industry to exist at all. We can't have that. Back to the EU and the EU's quantified objectives. One of the quantified objectives is organic production. 25% of EU agricultural land will be organic by 2030, in nine years' time. Today, 8.5% of the land is used organically. We Swedish democrats see positive aspects of organic production but also negative ones. The benefits include the contribution of organic production to biodiversity and the reduction of pesticide use. That's good. But perhaps the most important thing is that organic production can act as a pioneer and develop environmentally friendly technologies that can then often also be used in conventional agriculture. Among the drawbacks is that organic production provides lower production by 20 – 40 percent, depending on what you look at. This means that environmental benefits are often eaten if you count per kilo of product, and that's how you have to count, because we don't want to eat less. In addition, it reduces the degree of self-sufficiency. However, the most important disadvantage is probably the limitations imposed by detailed and sometimes illogical rules on the development of agriculture. Sweden has over the years tried to resist some of the illogical limitations but has failed more and more. We like to see organic production. However, it is important that the quantity of organic products is driven by consumer demand and not by quantified targets taken out of the air. When production is increased and demand is weak, as it has been recently, it can result in price falls. This means that farmers who are locked in production with a high cost and low yield cannot be paid for their efforts. It'll be like a trap. The situation has become more difficult the more people who have been attracted by the EU and the Swedish state to change. We also think that organic products should compete on their own merits. Society can and will help to sharpen environmental benefits and drive production costs through various development and advisory activities. The long-term objective must be to avoid the need for tax subsidies. Demand should also not be driven by unilateral campaigning, where only the benefits are addressed, as the European Commission proposes in its action programme, because then you are fooling the citizens. It is also important to prevent organic imports from crowding out locally produced conventional products. All of this is hampered by tone-doing, numerical targets. Differentiated targets for organic production therefore risk creating a trap for farmers who switch to organic production, to reduce food production, to lock production at a high cost, to dampen innovation and technological development, to deceive citizens and to displace local food production. Let's say no.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-496	Madam President, I would like Swedish agriculture is one of several prerequisites for Sweden to cope with climate change. The Left Party believes that Sweden should design its agricultural policy at national level. The EU's common agricultural policy is neither sustainable ecologically nor socially. In recent years, the number of farms around Europe has decreased, while those left behind have grown. It's a development the Left Party wants to reverse. We need more, not fewer, people living from active farming. The EU's common agricultural policy (CAP) continues to focus on promoting precisely industrial excellence over sustainability. Eighty per cent of CAP payments go to 20% of the largest farms across Europe. Intensification of livestock production and monotonous farming landscapes have a negative impact on both climate and biodiversity. Large amounts of aid end up with large landowners and multinationals. Food production is currently at the expense of the environment and climate, despite the EU's commitment to promoting sustainable agriculture, preserving biodiversity and combating the climate threat. Intensive agriculture is identified by scientists as one of the main causes of the decline in biodiversity. If sustainability objectives are to be taken seriously by the EU, reforms are needed that are better adapted to meet our climate targets. The Left Party would like, as I said, to see that Sweden could shape its own national agricultural policy. As long as Sweden is part of the EU, however, we are working to ensure that aid is designed in accordance with the sustainability objectives, that a ceiling is introduced for how much EU aid large estates can receive and to develop EU subsidies away from the large-scale animal industry. Sweden is well placed to develop a sustainable agriculture that in the future both contributes to global food supply and strengthens our own national self-sufficiency of food. In a green and sustainable society, sustainable agriculture is central. Swedish agriculture has always been an important part of Swedish self-image, as well as an important factor in social development. Good harvest years have historically brought a prosperous society. This can happen again, and so it needs to be, by securing our supply of food produced close, sustainable and ecologically. It will be a green transition that creates jobs throughout the country. The Left Party wants Sweden to raise the ambition for our self-sufficiency rate from 50 to 80 per cent and for a food emergency stock. Sweden has had it in the past, but it has gradually been phased out. Sweden also needs to build up its endurance. That is why we have highlighted a proposal that has been made by the authorities since before to start a pilot study in which natural-use gymnasies test to produce emergency food on an ongoing basis. It would reduce our dependence on imports and increase our resilience to disruption – a proposal with many benefits for both the environment and the sustainable development of agriculture. For the Left Party, it is also important to strengthen organic farming. It has several advantages when chemical pesticides and fertilizers are not used. We want to support the transition from conventional farming to organic farming. It gives us a stronger biodiversity, as well as a strengthened animal welfare. The support we want to see is aimed at both conversion and production. We also want to see an increase in funding for support for pasture land. In order to promote small-scale opportunities and increase animal welfare, the Left Party also proposes investment aid for mobile slaughterhouses. The number of slaughterhouses is decreasing and there are too many long distances, which is not preferable from the point of view of animal welfare. The pressure to keep prices down due to imports of cheap meat and competition from large slaughterhouses are some factors behind this, but also a lack of trained staff. By improving access to local slaughterhouses, we can reduce the need for long animal transport but also strengthen the conditions for local production and improved national self-sufficiency. It also provides increased opportunities for small-scale and locally produced food. Overall, there is a need for more opportunities for food processing throughout the country. Madam President, I would like In the tracks of the pandemic, we have seen how animal markets have been central to the spread of infection. Similarly, the Western large-scale meat industry is also an important factor in the spread of global viral diseases. Right now we are hopefully seeing the end of many cases of avian flu in Sweden and around Europe. This time, the infection is believed to have originated in wild birds in contact with domestic birds. Since the infection came to Sweden, 2 million chickens and turkeys have been killed. Avian influenza is an example of infection that spreads between animals and sometimes mutates and spreads to people like so-called zoonoses, as is the case with the Corona virus. Virus outbreaks are often seen as natural disasters and individual tragedies for those involved, and they are clearly tragedies. But the infection becomes widespread epidemics when they land in livestock with thousands of individuals on a minimal surface. The infection then spreads like wildfire. It is the animal factories that enable the infection to attach, mutate and spread further. Mink farming is another example. The Left Party has called for the demining farms to be closed, both for animal welfare reasons and because of the risk of virus transmission. Madam President, I would like Strong agriculture is needed if we are to cope with food supply, as well as strong agriculture within the natural framework is needed for us to cope with the climate. To talk about the challenges of agriculture is not to be critical of farming as such, on the contrary. The UN ‐ report Climate Change and Land noted that the world's current agriculture and forestry threats climate goals, biodiversity and food safety. It noted that today's agriculture produces major climate emissions and that it is driving climate change. If we do not tackle the problems linked to agriculture, climate and biodiversity, we will be doing ourselves a disservice. The blame does not lie with individual farmers; the blame lies with us, who have been involved in creating a system for agriculture that is not ecologically sustainable in the long term. We need agriculture and a viable food supply. There's no talk about that. But what we need is agriculture within the limits of nature. We now see only the beginning of what happens when we don't stay within nature's limits, and none of us want to be involved in experiencing what a five - degree increase in earth's average temperature would mean. So we work on what we have and do the best we can. For the Left, it becomes clear that we need to get away from the large-scale rationalisation that forces farmers into large-scale production and towards an agriculture that encourages small-scaleness, brings agriculture closer to the people and makes food supply a common interest in society. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: There I did not hear a motion. ) No, it's absolutely true. I forgot the number.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-517	Madam President, I would like I listened to the Left Party here, and some questions pop up. I need some clarification. It sounds like a very beautiful world being painted. It's all positive. First of all, EU aid goes to large producers. Does the Left Party know what EU aid is basically for? That would be interesting to hear. Then you're against this with size rationalization. It has been quite strong in Swedish agriculture, should be said. We've had a massive size rationalization. But there is one reason for this, and that is a lack of profitability. That is what makes farms bigger and larger. Then I have to ask the question: how does one intend to remedy this lack of profitability? Is the Left Party ready, Madam President, to reduce taxes and other things? That is what is needed to increase the profitability of Swedish agriculture. It would be interesting to hear if you are prepared to reduce taxes, for example, for Swedish agriculture. Mobile slaughterhouses were also lifted up. I think that's a great thing. I know well those who had the mobile slaughterhouse in Sweden. One of the reasons why it went bankrupt and had to close down was, of course, concerns about profitability, but that was absolutely the most difficult for the mobile slaughterhouse was that there was an extreme amount of hassle with rules, bureaucracy and authorities. This mobile abattoir was seen as any ordinary abattoir, even though it would go around on the roads. Is the Left Party prepared to radically change the rules and reduce the hassle and other things? I would like to hear a little bit about how to envisage increased food production. How are we gonna do that?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-522	Madam President, I would like I'll take the opportunity to call for reservation 15, and we'll have it out of the way. Thank you, John, for the question and the opportunity to talk about this further! It's always nice– we've been here before discussing this. Rules we heard about at the hearing we had last week. Where did these rules and the increased regulatory burden come from? They came from the EU. And who thinks the EU is a busy institution? Well, at least it's not the Left Party. There are some things to do in this regard, and taking agricultural policy back to national level is one way of dealing with the regulatory burden, I think. When it comes to farm slaughterhouses, it is great to hear that the Moderates and John Widegren think it is a good proposal in essence. I understand, like John Widegren, that it is not entirely unproblematic and not only can be rolled out and run smoothly, but it is clear that it will require action. That is why we also include financial support for it in our budget. We see that it is needed. This is also basically about what kind of agriculture you want. What kind of society do we want to build? The Left Party strongly believes that locally-based farming based on ecological foundations within nature is the way forward. Away from large-scale European rationalization with all that comes with it!
i-7b92e61b1124a389-527	Madam President, I would like Basically, EU aid came into being so that we could keep food prices down. Thus, EU aid is a compensation for agriculture in order to ensure that food prices are as low as possible. 30 years ago, 30% of a person's income went to buy food, and today we are down to somewhere between 12% and 14%, I think. There is a reason why we have European aid. I can agree that the bureaucracy of the European Union when it comes to agriculture is often completely unnecessary, complicated and messy. The honourable Member who spoke here earlier pointed out that there are also many threats to the new. But the fact remains. The Left Party stands here and says that we should increase food production and increase our self-sufficiency, but we should have more organic farming. The amount of arable land in Sweden is quite finite. In the next sentence we are talking about the large animal factories that we do not like either. I do not really understand what these animal factories are, because large rational farms are today those who, in principle, always invest most in climate-smart and environmentally-smart solutions and solutions that involve good animal welfare. That is what we see best in large, profitable farms today. They're the ones who manage to make these investments. Then the fact remains. How are we going to increase our food production and increase our self-sufficiency by increasing the amount of organically produced food and not having the really large animal productions? I am not getting the equation together, Madam President, so it would be interesting to hear how you think.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-531	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for your questions! I understand John Widegren doesn't get the equation together. I think like this: a viable and ecologically sustainable agriculture that takes place within the framework of nature needs to be close to the people if it is to be sustainable in the long term and in a crisis situation also be able to contribute to our self-sufficiency. If we have large farms that are rationalized together with food production that is centered somewhere in Central Germany, I think it does little for self-sufficiency in say northern Sweden. We need to have food production that is close to the people, and then we need an increase in small-scaleness. We also need more and not fewer people to participate in the food production that we need. That is the strong opinion of the Left Party. Yes, arable land one is finite, but I think that John Widegren and the Moderates also want to see increased food production in Sweden and that Swedish agriculture should be strengthened. These proposals also require more arable land, and we need to use it for good and sensible things and not build houses and motorways on it. I think that it is entirely reasonable and possible to create an agriculture in Sweden that stays within the planetary boundaries, increases the Swedish level of self-sufficiency and, at the same time, moves away from large-scaleness. I do not see that there would in any way be a contradiction in that.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-536	Madam President, I would like Today, agricultural policy is being debated. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9. I would like to start by thanking all Sweden's farmers for the incredibly important work they are doing. It is, in fact, absolutely crucial for us consumers to be able to have food. Today, when I went up by train from Ödeshög and on from Mjölby, it was amazing to see the spring mill. Some are completely finished and others are in full swing. Sweden is a fantastic agricultural country with skilled farmers, good climate and good soils for both grain and milk and meat production. Yet we hear, Madam President, in the debate that Swedish farmers are being accused of being environmental villains. You even sometimes hear that there is talk of peasant combs, and that is absolutely terrible, I mean. It is just the opposite: Swedish agriculture is not a problem but part of the solution! Instead of disparaging words and guilt, we shall be eternally grateful for the work done every day, 24:7, by our Swedish peasants. One might wonder how many of us might consider working as intensively as they do. There's some in here, and that's very good. If you compare with how we have it out in the country, I think we should be grateful to the farmers. Madam President, I would like A while ago there was a report from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It shows that Sweden has a food trade deficit of over SEK 55 billion. That's a huge amount of money. It is positive that we are large exporters of cereals, but then unfortunately there are gloomy figures. One example is beef. Here we export for 168 million but import for 3.7 billion. Another example is dairy products, such as cheese, which we export for 704 million but import for a total of 6.6 billion Swedish kronor. The same applies to chicken and pigmeat. It is a huge excess for the meat we import compared to the meat we export. I mean, this is a big worry. We have the Swedish added value that we often talk about in this House – we have grumbling on the pig and the least antibiotic use in the EU – yet we see imports increasing. And it's not just increasing a little, it's increasing a lot. What if we could get 10 percent to go home? This is equivalent to 5.5 billion that would go to Swedish agriculture and to rural areas. I think that would be something to work with. Madam President, I would like In mid-March, I attended Milk Day. We got a report from LRF Milk. Member John Widegren has referred a little to it. There had been questions to farmers about how they view the situation now and in the future. Two answers stood out: profitability and the regulatory burden. They are still the most important issues for Swedish agriculture. In the food strategy, a key building block is to increase profitability and reduce the regulatory burden. So what's it been like? In fact, it has become the opposite; the regulatory burden is increasing all the time. There is one thing in this that I find interesting. We adopted the strategy in 2017, but it is still in the environmental code that agriculture is environmentally hazardous. In other words, all dairy farmers who today have been out milking the cows or all the farmers who have been out giving feed to the meat animals, pigs or chickens have been doing environmentally hazardous activities. It is, of course, very wrong, and it gives a very strange signal. I would like to address the representative of the government. Why don't you get to grips with that? It's as simple as that. The environmental code can be changed. It's not written in stone. You can fix it, if that's what you want. Madam President, I would like Authorities play an important role in supporting and facilitating business. It does not always work in a desirable way. Simple procedures, rules and processes are needed by authorities that simplify food business operators. Authorities and officials should also focus on the business aspect when making decisions or drawing up rules. This could, for example, involve carrying out an impact assessment before a computer system is replaced, in order to prevent delays in payment of aid. We have seen this all last year and the year before it; farmers are suffering in a terrible way. The Christian Democrats believe that the relevant authorities should be given a promotion mission that clarifies that they should not be merely a controlling body. The focus should shift from a public authority perspective to a clearer user perspective. This should be clearly stated in the government's regulatory letter. Authorities working on the food strategy should provide more information and facilitate and support food business. Madam President, I would like Another thing in the food strategy is that we should increase our self-sufficiency in food. It's very interesting. It is also a cornerstone of the food strategy. In fact, it is constantly going down today. We've reached the bottom levels, let's hope. It can only get better. Here in Stockholm we can do two days. Then the shelves are empty. Around Sweden we can handle maybe seven – eight days, maybe a little more, before it becomes empty on the shelves. We can't have that. There has to be a change. We can look at and have Finland as an example. They are a great example of how to act and work for it to be at least 80 percent. This is to be compared with Sweden, which has less than 50%, Madam President. We in the Christian Democrats believe that things need to get better. The self-sufficiency of food must be increased, for the sake of our country and for those who live and work here.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-551	Madam President, I would like Initially, for time winning, I would like to endorse only Liberals' reservation number 4. But, of course, we support all our reservations. Some of them include wetlands, competitiveness and regulatory simplification. Madam President, I would like This debate shows that it is easy to get into a clear production perspective in agricultural policy. As we are called the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, I also intend to reflect the environmental and climate perspective of agricultural policy. There is no contradiction. It is important to ensure that the transition takes place in all sectors. The EU's agricultural policy has been mentioned. Liberals believe that there is a need for increased investment in landscape conservation, environmental protection and biodiversity conservation. Agricultural and food policy should have a clear consumer and sustainability perspective. Climate-smart production with good animal care and environmental considerations needs to be protected. The climate impact of agriculture is important to note while, as has already been noted in the debate, agriculture is important for food and food security. The EU is an important player in this context. If we are to work on the environment and climate issue, we need to work within the framework of EU cooperation. High climate and environmental ambitions should be self-evident requirements for a sustainable Swedish food policy and for animal husbandry. That should also be the objective of the EU's common agricultural policy. When we debate issues in various reports, it is sometimes difficult to have a helicopter perspective. Many of the questions in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture are interlinked. Liberals believe that Sweden, also nationally, should focus on the climate and environmental ambitions of EU agricultural support for the next period. It is of great importance how climate action is designed in the rural development programme for the next period. Future rural programmes need to become a tool in climate change and include incentives and actions for carbon storage. Madam President, I would like Liberals have many proposals in the report. I would like to touch on some of the environmental perspectives that also relate to agricultural policy. For example, coastal meadows should be taken into account in the development of actions under the rural development programme. It is an important environmental measure. The nature type of meadows has decreased in the Baltic Sea during the 20th century due to overgrowth, not least because the land is no longer being struck or grazed. The vegetation also affects other natural factors, such as land elevation and changes in the water level. We think it is important to highlight this as a measure. The grazing on the meadows can have positive effects, not least to prevent the meadows from growing again. Most often we hear the second part of the discussion about leakage of nutrients. But we believe that the meadows should be grazed by horses as well as cows and other animals, regardless of the main livelihood of the owners. We know that there is a great challenge there if you are a farmer or a hobby. It is also important to take into account the importance of open landscapes and habitats for pollinating insects in future agricultural programmes. The widespread bee death, which exists in many lands, has troubled many. As it threatens both biodiversity and food production, the issue needs to be raised. As agriculture changes, more and more large areas are covered by fields or afforestation, while meadows with a wide variety of flowering plants are disappearing. When land grows again, because they are no longer cared for by bait or mowing, flowers and vegetation that feed on soil - living pollinating insects disappear. The agricultural landscape is an important habitat for many plants and animals. It is mainly meadows and pastures and the border areas of the agricultural landscape that have great values. Flowering crops provide food for insects, and these insects contribute to this important pollination. There is an economic value of pollination in Sweden. For example, honeybees are estimated to contribute somewhere between SEK 300 million and SEK 600 million. Added to that is the value of wild insects pollination of cultivated crops and wild berries. But there are too little pollinating insects in some places, which also affects crops. The activities of beekeepers are important and contribute to the objectives of the food strategy. We in the Liberals are very pleased with the efforts made by the government to strengthen the conditions for beekeepers. Madam President, I would like A large proportion of Sweden's original wetlands have disappeared as a result of drainage and cultivation. There are varied and multifaceted reasons to restore the wetlands. These include the creation of water reserves, the management of stormwater and heavy rain, the creation of preventive measures against fires and the promotion of the local climate at high temperatures, but also the prevention of the loss of climate gases and, not least, the suppression of eutrophication of the seas. Today there are a number of obstacles to the construction of wetlands. We Liberals believe that any rules that may hamper the development and construction of wetlands need to be reviewed. It also includes the rules on beach protection. Of course, beach protection rules should be revised to enable both wetlands and ponds. Madam President, I would like In case of severe drought, the ability of the crop to absorb water is reduced. Therefore, continuous and limited irrigation can prevent long-term nutrient leakage from agricultural landscapes and soils by preserving the crop's ability to absorb nutrients. That is why we also believe that the issue of irrigation ponds and the regulations surrounding them are very important. In the future you can possibly create combination ponds. Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurship has been the subject of many previous speakers. But I would also like to point out from the Liberals how important it is to safeguard local entrepreneurship. It is important to review all regulations and government structures – after all, they are often adapted to very large commercial actors. The conditions for small craft and start-up food businesses shall be such as to enable them to develop their activities. Madam President, I would like The horse industry is an issue that involves a great many liberals. Sometimes there is a very strong focus on just the environmental impact. At the same time, we want to highlight the importance of the horse for those involved. It is a fantastic commitment that many of our citizens show. Many people spend much of their free time at work in the stables and training. In addition, equestrian sport is a major part of the leisure time of many girls and women. There are environmental impacts and, of course, the measures that can easily be taken to reduce the problems of eutrophication from horses should be taken. At the same time, however, we really want to highlight the benefits and pleasures of horse keeping and equestrian sport. We would also like to draw attention to the possibility of learning from, for example, Greppa's way of working to contribute to development in the horse industry. It is important to focus where the problems are greatest. Sweden is a sparsely populated country. Therefore, it is also necessary to ensure that the efforts made take account of local conditions. Madam President, I would like There are many other issues that concern agricultural policy. I would just like to mention one, to which we have reason to return: we look forward to the debate in June on the feeding of game.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-569	Madam President, I would like I thank Nina Lundström for her speech. It is now the case that our parties and we as Members, as I understand it, have a little different trust in the European Commission and its ability to understand the conditions for a border state like Sweden. I think there's a degree difference. This also applies to the benefits of EU joint action. I also believe that there is a difference in degrees. The same applies to numerical targets, which I want to get into. I think that Nina Lundström's speech breathed quite a lot of balance between different values. I welcome that. That's very positive, I think. We are now discussing numerical targets in the EU. It was said from the beginning: Here we have numerical targets. We suggest them. We will then carry out impact assessments when there is a strong situation and we will make laws. But in between, there has been an action plan for organic production that sets out these numerical targets. However, we have still not seen any impact assessment. My question is: does Nina Lundström not think, like us, that there must be an impact study first, before fixing the figures? Shouldn't you have a discussion about where they should lie before then? You can discuss whether they should be 20, 25 or perhaps 15 per cent when you can see the impact on other areas of society.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-575	Madam President, I would like It is a bit difficult to understand the entry of the Swedish democrats into this. Is it about the Swedish Democrats wanting digitised targets, or is it about the demand from consumers being directed? On the Liberal side, we believe that numerical targets may be useful in certain areas, depending on the sector of industry we are discussing. However, in terms of food, types of food and types of production, we believe that consumer demand is very important. It is about what consumers are asking, but also about the need for consumers to be given relevant information in order to make the active choice. We stand up for free trade and believe that EU cooperation is important. As I tried to reflect in my main speech, it is also about this sector, the agricultural sector, having a very large and important part of both climate and environmental challenges. In order for consumer demand to have an impact and for consumers to really be able to make the active choices, if we now focus on the fact that it is a driving force for influencing production, we believe that it is also necessary to strengthen consumers' power for information. We believe that there are consumers who are keen to demand organically produced products, as well as those who demand conventionally grown products. There are those who want to eat imported meat, and there are those who want to eat Swedish produced meat. Ultimately, consumers must be able to make that choice.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-579	Madam President, I would like I thank Nina Lundström for her answer. I chose this area for a line because I think it is perhaps here that there is the least conflict between our parties. I like what I hear. But then the question is what the ultimate conclusion is. Now Nina Lundström can correct me, but I interpret the Liberals' answer as saying that the Liberals are not now setting a 25% target for organic production and want an impact assessment. It also wants consumers to have influence on this issue and for the market to have at least part of the governance of how much organic production there is. That's how I interpreted the answer. But maybe it was wrong. In that case, Nina Lundström will have the opportunity to correct it.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-581	Madam President, I would like As I said, we think it is important that consumer demand should influence production. Whatever the percentage, one must also consider the role of aid schemes and state subsidies and measures in all of this. We believe that it has been important to get organic production started because there is a strong environmental impact on it. We have often reflected in the debates, for example, the issue of pollinating insects versus organic farming and how it can contribute to environmental considerations. We think that this type of balance is important in the debate at all times. However, if it is a question of simply putting support for pure production for some purpose, we are always very sceptical. We believe that EU cooperation is very important in order to be able to take joint responsibility for the climate and the environment. It is incredibly important as a tool, and it also gives a greater impact. The second is that it also creates the development of products for consumers that consumers can demand. I am still very unsure where the Swedish Democrats stand. On the one hand, it is a question of percentages and on what percentage to fold. But what is the balance in that debate? Is it consumer demand, is it the environmental and climate perspective or is it any other perspective that is important? I often interpret the Swedish Democrats as saying that it is about Sweden itself deciding everything about what is produced in Sweden and that it should take back power from the EU. It's the most important balance. We believe very much in taking EU responsibility and global responsibility. We believe that consumer demand actually affects the environment and climate worldwide because we have a free trade system. We think it is very important to continue that path. There is reason to come back to the matter. It's about the scales. What do we want to reward? For us, consumer demand, the environment and climate are very important.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-588	Madam President, I would like We all need to eat. People should be able to live and work throughout Sweden. In a stronger society, there are resources and power for an active rural policy that exploits all of Sweden's potential. This creates a stronger and safer Sweden that stays together. This is what we are talking about here in the House of Parliament as we are dealing with the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's report No 17 on agricultural policy. In June 2017, the Riksdag adopted the Food Strategy, which runs until 2030. This is a long-term growth strategy covering the whole food chain. The goal of the food strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production will increase, relevant environmental objectives will be achieved and sustainable growth and employment will be created throughout Sweden. The Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's study and recently published report on the vulnerability of agriculture show many strengths but also weaknesses in agriculture. Many factors have been highlighted in the work to reduce this vulnerability. Overall factors include profitability and competitiveness, climate adaptation measures, secure access to intervention funds, increased availability of staff and cooperation. Farmers have many ideas about what the state can and should do, such as giving farmers long-term rules of play and investing in domestic products and alternative biofuels. There are similarities and common points of contact with our food strategy. We Social Democrats believe in the future of Swedish agriculture. Sweden should stick together, and it should be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country. Today we have problems with gaps between town and country. Rural areas have great potential to develop and grow. The foundation is the growth power of entrepreneurship and small businesses in rural areas. Modern and active regional policy is a tool for development and jobs throughout the country. If agriculture is to develop, we need a society that stays together. In concrete terms, it can mean more and better broadband, better roads, postal services that work, more police officers, a justice system with greater knowledge and resources to stop theft leagues and animal rights activists who are upsetting the daily lives of too many people. Financial services are also a topical issue as the private sector withdraws in many sparsely populated areas, with boring messages about closed bank accounts. In the January agreement with its 73 points and the four-party agreement between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals there are several points that deal with and touch on how our Swedish agriculture should be strengthened. Madam President, I would like For example, it is about digital infrastructure throughout the country, to expand more service offices throughout the country and to strengthen and increase the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture throughout the country. Swedish food production is crucial for jobs and growth in rural areas. Ongoing updates of the EU's common agricultural policy just highlight the issue of the future as important through more support for young farmers and generational change. The focus here is on strengthening efforts to strengthen rural areas and the recovery after the ravages after covid-19, thereby strengthening Swedish competitiveness and facilitating compliance with environmental and climate objectives. The green industries have, thankfully, managed relatively well during the pandemic, but there are of course investment needs. The EU's common agricultural policy has been reformed almost continuously since the early 1990s, and developments have not been completed. Reforms have led to clear improvements. Production is now adapted to market conditions and surplus production has disappeared. Guiding principles for the Social Democratic-led government in the negotiations on the EU's common agricultural policy are general: overall substantially reduced expenditure, market orientation, enhanced competitiveness and a level playing field, strengthened environmental and climate ambitions, more focus on results and simplification. The share of agricultural expenditure in the EU budget has been falling continuously for several years. While the CAP accounted for two thirds of the EU budget in the early 1980s, its share was only 37.8% for the period 2014 to 2020. The precise distribution of funds and the strengthening of the budget for Swedish rural areas to various measures will be specified in greater detail in the future. For us Social Democrats, it is important that the next period of the EU's common agricultural policy should be as clear and clear as possible. Support should be easy to manage, reducing administration and avoiding controls unnecessarily. Many who operate in green industries are small businesses with small margins and limited liquidity. It is therefore crucial that the actions of public authorities and, for example, payments are clear and predictable. Drought and low groundwater also reminds us of how vulnerable Swedish agriculture is. Long-term measures are now needed that enable companies to build good profitability, so that they can cope with future valleys and also provide farmers with tools to manage a changing climate. It is a question of reducing costs, of work, of inputs, of ensuring that farmers can carry out their activities without the risk of hatred and threats, and of ensuring that regulations and the actions of the authorities contribute to the development of agricultural enterprises rather than hinder them. It is about changing to fossil-free agriculture with hardy crops and systems that can handle a changed climate with both too much and too little precipitation. We Social Democrats strongly believe in the potential and opportunities of Sweden as a whole. We want to see a Sweden where everyone can live and realize their dreams no matter where they live. For individuals as well as businesses, freedom and self-determination are essential elements of the will and ability to create development. During the pandemic, more people have started to choose local produce, locally rather than imported. More retirement homes and school kitchens should choose Swedish. Therefore, the origin marking in restaurants is also a relevant issue. The policy goes from objectives and words to concrete actions and actions that give confidence in the future. We are serious when we say that the whole of Sweden will live and grow and that the future also exists in the countryside. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject any reservations.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-609	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether I was warmed by the mouthguard or by the honourable Member's speech in front of the speaker's chair! Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear this speech, because I agree with a great deal of what is being said. There are an incredible number of good visions and thoughts about where we are going, how we achieve the food strategy and other things. But what I am reacting to is that there seems to be a strong belief that the EU's new agricultural policy solves much of the problems we have in Sweden, with Swedish agriculture. I'm not so sure about that. I previously highlighted some concerns with the new strategies and if we do not land them in a good way for Sweden. I also think that many times environmental and climate issues in agriculture are raised quite routinely. It would have been interesting to hear what the Social Democrats consider to be the major challenges when it comes to environmental and climate issues in Swedish agriculture. What are our challenges there? If we now think that we are going to meet the food strategy by 2030, we will of course only have increased production if we have increased profitability. Europe is one thing. The common EU budget will be smaller, as it was presented here. Then there will be less money from the EU to boost profitability. What exactly should we do nationally to strengthen the profitability of Swedish agriculture?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-614	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for a number of important and good questions! I choose to start in the big, simply. Where are we going, and how do we get there? The EU has set very aggressive climate targets, if it is the climate bone we are going to talk about. With the January agreement, Sweden will become the first fossil-free or net zero-emitting country in the Western world, in the industrialised world. By 2045 we will have no net emissions in Sweden. If we are going to get closer to agricultural policy here, Madam President, there are a number of points – which I touched on in my speech – which are directly concerned with climate action linked to the freedom of fossil fuels in agriculture as well. One example is the recent investigation into eliminating fossil use in agricultural machinery. Last time I looked, it was 14 percent of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions that unfortunately come from agricultural machines. We in Sweden can do this. We are very well placed to become self-sufficient in biofuels, biogas, for example, and to get our agricultural machinery and also forestry machines, for that matter, to go on domestically produced fuels.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-618	Madam President, I would like Thank you for some answers! I agree; fossil freedom is a very interesting question. I think that the study on fossil freedom in agriculture to be presented in June or July at some point is very important and very interesting. On the way there, it is also incredibly important that we do not turn away profitability and make it more difficult for Swedish agriculture with, for example, too high fuel taxes. I am not so worried that Swedish agriculture is not prepared to change when the opportunity exists. The LRF has quite clearly gone out and said that it wants to be fossil-free, especially on fuel, to 2030 or something similar. It's incredibly good, because it means that the nutrition wants to go there itself. But the fact remains with the whole question of profitability: it will not be delivered without good profitability. As far as the climate issue itself is concerned, the figure was raised by 14% here. But agriculture and forestry are also the industries that are in principle the only ones that actually also bind carbon dioxide. What is in the last row is perhaps more interesting than knowing how much they actually release. We'll have that with us in the discussion. The fact remains, and the question remains: Do the Social Democrats and Markus Selin really believe that we will tackle the major environmental and climate challenges if we reduce the EU budget? We have agreed that we can reduce the EU budget, but on the moderate side we have a number of proposals on how to strengthen profitability nationally. I do not think that these proposals come from the Social Democrats in this debate. If we do one thing at European level, we must do other things nationally, and I would like to see those proposals, Madam President.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-623	Madam President, I would like Again: Member John Widegren of the Moderates raises urgent and important issues. I will try to respond to them at my last two minutes of speaking time. It's a palette of measures we're going to see. Madam President, I shall start by taking up where Mr Widegren left off. Yes, agriculture is both a goal and a means of carbon sinks. Agriculture is a means to climate change. When it comes to the palette of raising profitability, it is the same palette as we can see in all entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship and risk are linked. It's about accessing inputs and resources, and about clear rules and laws that we make in here – we have also done that today. The simplification work will continue. We are not finished; it must continue. We will tie together the climate work and the major crisis that we have ahead of us after the pandemic is over. We will focus on smart, green environmental technologies and climate work, for example for agricultural machines and future agricultural machines. They can, for example, be involved in developing Sweden. It is about a palette from the EU, EU laws, EU directives and EU organisations, down to Sweden. It is about everything from the government base we now have with the January agreement and a clear direction towards 2045 and fossil freedom to individual entrepreneurship, simplification, good labour supply, profitability and that the whole of Sweden should be able to live and also grow.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Selin, for a very interesting speech. Much of what you say is what I think is important, and you point it out in a good way. What I am thinking about is the food strategy, which we were involved in adopting here in the summer of 2017, more specifically in June. We had many negotiations back and forth, and I thought the strategy was very good. It points to what Markus Selin said about increasing profitability and increasing competitiveness and food self-sufficiency. Now it has been a few years since we adopted the strategy. It's always interesting to think that it's one thing to assume something and another thing to then summarize and see how it looks. If you look at what it looks like today, you can see that things have not improved so much. For example, food self-sufficiency is still below 50%. We said it would increase. You can look at the Farm Barometer and what the farmers say there. What are they pointing at? They point to two things that really stand out. The first is that profitability and competitiveness must increase. That is still what threatens and makes them not want to bet. The second is that there is too much bureaucracy – the regulatory burden, the regulatory burden and the regulatory burden. It would be interesting to know how the honourable Member thinks when he hears this.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-633	Madam President, I would like I choose to begin where Mr Oscarsson concluded. I myself have been self-employed, and I have met several self-employed people in Sweden. I have never met anyone in any place who wants more rules and greater regulatory burden. The concept is therefore familiar, but at the same time it is up to us to ensure that rules and regulatory burdens are reduced. I shall go back to our report and our dossier on environmental and agricultural policy. Then I shall go back to Mr Oscarsson's question on the food strategy. I look a little carefully in my papers at what has happened only in recent years and last year when it comes to bets on rules and bureaucracy. I'm going back to July 2017. The Government commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agency for Growth to reduce the regulatory burden within the framework of the Food Strategy. In December 2019, the Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to conduct continuous analyses of the overall regulation of the food chain during the period 2020-2025 – we are therefore at the beginning of that period. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government emphasises that competitiveness is an area that more authorities will continue to work with according to a specific regulation, and the National Agricultural Agency will work actively for competitiveness. In 2018, the Government commissioned county boards, the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Swedish Food Administration, SLU, Formas and Vinnova. The regulations in 2019 introduced reporting requirements for county administrative boards, the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Food Administration. In the regulation letter for 2020, the reporting requirement was extended to include the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. In 2019 the Swedish Food Administration started a two-year project.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-637	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Selin, for a committed response! It is good that the honourable Member talks about various things that have happened. What is interesting, however, is that the Barometer asks the farmers: What prevents you from betting, today and onwards? Then it's still this. When I meet farmers, they say: Magnus, profitability must increase. The regulatory burden continues to be ruinous. The honourable Member must also note this – when you can be out in a normal way again after the coronan. Evaluation must also be something that the government has in its hand. How'd it go? How does this really work? Will it be as we have said, or is there just a lot of paper and talk? Talking doesn't make a person rich. I can tell you that. Nevertheless, I would like to commend the honourable Member for one thing, and that is the issue of labelling foodstuffs from origin. I think that's great. We Christian Democrats are up to that. We think it is important to know where the food comes from. We have a trade deficit, which I mentioned in my speech, of EUR 55 billion. That's a lot of money. Then my question is: what does the honourable Member think about that? We talk a lot about added value. We've got the knuckles on the pig. We have the lowest use of antibiotics in the whole of the European Union when it comes to animals. Yet imports of cheese, for example, are increasing – it is huge money – and beef and pigmeat and chicken meat. What does the honourable Member think about this?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-642	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for good questions! The issue of self-sufficiency, which I think everyone has mentioned so far in the debate, is a bit tricky. It's a percentage where we don't do it ourselves and where we buy in from outside. This means that we have two possibilities politically. We can increase the production of Swedish food or make sure that we do not eat nutrients from abroad. I do not want to go in politically and say that Mr Oscarsson is not allowed to eat avocado and banana and is not allowed to drink coffee. It's hard, and I don't want to see such a society. On the other hand, we as politicians and members of parliament can increase production and benefit Swedish agriculture and Swedish farmers. I was aware of that in my speech, Madam President. It's simply a palette. It's even about such practical things as the internet to everyone. It is about roads, police and service offices – that the whole country should grow and live. I would like to highlight examples that may not have much to do with agricultural policy. But they fit to highlight in this context in the Swedish parliament. It's the IRS, Active and the Swedish Companies Agency. As a self-employed person, I have actually been surprised and baffled at how easy it is to make the company's accounts. It is even easy to register a limited liability company. It goes in a few days these days. It took longer to communicate with the bank, speaking of rules and hassles, than to get the limited company granted through the Swedish Companies Registration Office. So there are good examples.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-647	I can only say that I hear that it is easy to fall into speaking to each other and not speaking through the President, who is, of course, the parliamentary custom to do. But we appreciate it when you find yourself and correct yourself.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-648	Madam President, I would like Initially, I can't help but do a little reflection on regulatory issues. I believe that it often starts here in this House and in the European Union, of course, so we need to be cautious about the objectives we set ourselves in order to reduce regulatory problems in the end. But I want to talk about animal welfare. Sweden has a high level of animal welfare. For example, we have a grazing requirement for dairy cows. It is uncertain whether we can provide dairy farmers with compensation for grazing costs due to EU rules. We, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, have pressed for the government, in turn, to press on in the EU negotiations in this regard, and that has been done. An opening appeared. Several Member States and the European Parliament as a whole supported a position that it is certain that this can be done if it is also possible to allow national support when countries take precedence over environmental issues. But then the government backed out of this. Then I wonder: why do the Social Democrats not want to pursue this opportunity for the sake of dairy farmers and biodiversity when the same opportunity would be given to other countries when they take the lead in environmental matters? What are the Social Democrats thinking there? I don't understand it.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-651	Madam President, I would like I got a little ambivalent. I'll answer the question. It is quite concrete, a little too concrete for my shoes, so to speak. I can answer a little more generally. I think that Sweden in general should strive to go ahead. Without going into all the details of grazing requirements, which were the essence of Mr Eklöf's question, I think that the EU is a success factor. The EU is good. Europe has benefited us. The EU has benefited Sweden, and Sweden has actually also benefited the EU. It's a big domestic market. I have been thinking about listening to the Swedish Democrats. I will take this opportunity to ask before we end this for this evening: what do the Swedish Democrats really want with the EU? Is the EU good, or is it bad? I've been listening this evening. These are objectives that are confused with ambition. Ambition is confused with wishes. Wishes become demands. Claims will be promise. And promise suddenly becomes, I feel, a little bad. Cooperation is generally good. I would like to take this opportunity tonight to turn my answer to a question: what do the Swedish Democrats really want with EU cooperation?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-654	Madam President, I would like Unlike Mr Selin, I will answer the question. Whether the EU is good or bad depends on what it looks like. The EU is now developing into an ever closer Union, and we do not like that. We want a less tight Union where the Member States have more say. If you get a Union that looks like that, it can be predominantly positive, but with a Union that is too tight, it is predominantly negative. It is a question of being active in Europe, and that is really what my first question is about. It is about ensuring that EU rules are good for Sweden, for Swedish citizens and for Swedish economic operators. That is why I will ask Markus Selin to try to answer the question. Why do the Social Democrats not want to push the opportunity for Sweden to replace dairy farmers for grazing when it is conditional on the same thing being possible in the environmental field? It is national money, so it does not affect the EU budget. It is also about reimbursement of costs, so it does not affect the internal market either. I simply do not understand why the government and the Social Democrats dropped the issue. Some kind of response would be positive.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-656	Madam President, I would like I can only reply that Sweden and the Social Democrats in general should choose to go ahead, to be an example. That is my short and simple answer.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-657	Madam President, I would like We should be happy in the Swedish Parliament when Sweden is in several ways a role model within the EU. The European Commission has presented its new action plan for organic farming. The plan aims to reach the target of 25% of agricultural land throughout the EU being managed using ecological methods in 2030. That is right, Madam President. This is not a proposal from the Green Party; it is a proposal from the European Commission. Earlier in the debate, we have heard views on EU policy, including the green man. Nevertheless, I would like to remind Members of this House that Parliament has given broad support to developments in the European Union, the Greens and Farm to Fork. The European Commission states in the Action Plan that organic farming should be a model to follow. Those are nice words. Organic farming land has 30% more biodiversity than conventional agricultural land. The pollinators are happy. Organic farming without pesticides has positive effects on the environment and public health. Today's News has an article on regenerative agriculture. That's interesting. Let us remember that concept. Soil-enhancing measures that increase agricultural productivity while attaching more carbon can be an important climate issue for agriculture in the future. Organic food production must be increased in the interests of farmers, rural areas, health and biodiversity. Sweden is far ahead where over 20 per cent of arable land is organically grown. When the ecomarket will grow throughout Europe, thanks to the ambitions of the green one, it will benefit Sweden because we already have good production of organic food. The food strategy aims to increase food production while achieving relevant environmental objectives. This includes organic production. Our action plan sets specific targets of 30% of agricultural land and 60% of public purchases. I am absolutely convinced that the EU has been inspired by Sweden. The CAP, the EU's common agricultural policy (CAP), should steer towards greater environmental and social benefits by allowing individual farmers to receive compensation for the work and measures they take at farm level. The Green Party believes that the EU budget for general income support, i.e. the single payment, should be reduced in favour of increased environmental and animal welfare payments. The Green Party is also in favour of eco-schemes, increased environmental compensation, which the Commission has proposed as a compulsory part of the area aid. Organic farming means a variety of techniques, methods and measures. Organic and Kravmarked are also established market concepts that make a strong contribution to profitability and competitiveness, including for Swedish agriculture as a whole. Organic production is therefore market driven, i.e. that the environment and profitability should go hand in hand. The EU's agricultural budget, together with national co-financing, is the basis for achieving the environmental objectives and the objectives of the food strategy to promote rural development and businesses in green industries. As we heard earlier in the debate, the government has put forward proposals for a strengthened national co-financing balancing the effect of Brexit. The Recovery Fund also provides an opportunity to strengthen agriculture and rural areas. Above all, the focus on climate investment is very important. I am also proud that during our term of office we have made increased investments in organic production, qualitative food processing, research and more. Although I highlight organic farming, I would like to say that the Green Party wants an increase in agriculture in Sweden on the total. We want more farmers; more young farmers, more farmers with smaller farms, medium-sized farms and large farms. We need more farmers who engage in crop cultivation, vegetable cultivation, animal husbandry and all combinations. We do not need mink farms, but we need more farmers who develop food processing and who want to cooperate with local food companies. The Green Party wants increased self-sufficiency of food in Sweden, and we want it to be implemented in a way that reduces climate emissions. Climate change affects the vulnerability of agriculture. In the Committee on Environment and Agriculture we had a hearing on these issues last week. Plant nutrition is central, SLU Future Food raised. Many farmers today rely entirely on the purchase of mineral fertilizers to ensure food production. This applies in particular to nitrogen but also to phosphorus. Fertilisers are an important means of intervention. However, SLU points out that there are resources for plant nutrients, especially for phosphorus, in manure and in human plant nutrients that should be used more optimally. The use of these resources can reduce the vulnerability of agriculture. Increased utilisation of nitrogen fixation reduces dependence on mineral nitrogen, which SLU also highlights. Reducing dependence on imported fertilizers is important. This would reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and reduce emissions of nitrous oxide. Here, organic farming is at the forefront as an inspiration. Madam President, I would like Another issue raised in the vulnerability report of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture was that farmers must dare to invest in their agriculture. There were examples from Finland about a law on relief services for agricultural entrepreneurs. Sweden has no special security systems for farmers, but it is undeniably an advantage for farmers in Finland who keep animals entitled to one month's holiday every summer. Madam President, I would like Swedish food and drink is exported to a value of more than SEK 50 billion per year. When we look at the big selling products exported from Sweden, we see that it is about Norwegian salmon, vodka, candy and coffee. These products have very little to do with Swedish agriculture. I think that we should have a focus in the Swedish food strategy that not only strengthens and expands Swedish production in general but also strengthens and develops the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture more. As regards the direction of the food strategy, there are also criticisms of the fact that the food strategy focuses a little too narrowly on structural rationalisation because the result is fewer and fewer farmers. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has recently carried out an evaluation of the Swedish Food Strategy. I would like to take this opportunity to mention two conclusions from their report. The intensification of agriculture has a negative impact on biodiversity. This is clear from the report. Another clear point is that the jobs created in this area as a result of the growth that has taken place in recent years have largely come about in the metropolitan regions. If I were asked what is absolutely the most important thing for Swedish agriculture in the future, I would answer that there is a need for more young farmers. More young farmers are needed who have the ability to develop agriculture and processing and who invest in climate-driven business development. I think that's the key to success.
i-6D8an6fBzYrjqRsMsNM5YF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your speech. One point raised by the honourable Member was the simplification of the rules. This is an issue that I think everyone here has raised today. It is exciting that we agree in principle that this issue is important and that it seems that we want to do something about it. At the same time, the farmer does not notice this, at least not the ones I talk to the farm level. They can't tell the difference. They think it's a lot of talk and a little workshop, and it's not positive that they experience it that way. A question I would like to put to the honourable Member, Madam President, concerns something I also talked about – this with the environmental code and what it says. I believe that regulatory simplification is linked to what is stated in the environmental code: that agriculture is an environmentally dangerous activity. I mean it's very stupid that it says that, and as I said, the signal it sends is absolutely terrible – that those who go out into the barn and milk their cows, those who go out and feed the pigs and, you know, everything that is done as farmers at the same time means that it is environmentally dangerous activity. So you're doomed in advance. I mean, that's a very bad signal. It should be the easiest thing in the world to change this. The environmental beam is not cut into stone, but we can change it if we just want to.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-682	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Magnus Oscarsson for the question. This is not the first time I have been asked that question, which is why I have been thinking a little bit now that I am going to answer. We are in the middle of a coronapandemia, and we know how incredibly hard they work in health care, in intensive care and in our large hospitals around the country. Hospitals are also classified as environmentally hazardous activities. But we know that there is an incredibly important job in health care. It's exactly the same in agriculture. A huge amount of work is being done in agriculture, and very many parts of agriculture are good for the environment. I would like to say that just the fact that we have agriculture is good for the environment – perhaps the most important thing. The fact that we then have farmers who are actively involved in helping to save small biotopes, hedges and everything that benefits biodiversity is great. The fact that we also have organic farmers, who do not use pesticides, is fantastic for biodiversity. Agriculture does a great deal for the environment. At the same time, there are certain elements in agriculture, such as the handling of chemical pesticides and stocks of fuels and such things, which can contribute to environmental problems. That's why agriculture is part of the environmental code. We must be careful not to create environmental problems. I do not think that should have to burden the individual farmer.
i-SoDJYnGUUzkRo68VAVg8wH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answer. So positive that the honourable Member has thought about it! I could tell. At the same time, Madam President, I believe that the signal value here is reprehensible because it is felt that the environmental code, so to speak, doest farmers. You have to be able to change the wording. I hope that the government will make an urgent change there. We talked before a little about the added value of Swedish food. I think it is important to highlight this in this context. After all, we have fantastic farmers who have really done incredible things to reduce the use of antibiotics, for example. Here we have grumblings on the pig, and we use the least antibiotics of all countries throughout the European Union. At the same time, we notice that imports are increasing by what we have so much good of in Sweden. My question is how to think ahead. What can we do so that maybe we can bring back a few billion? The honourable Member was EUR 55 billion, Madam President. Then I think it's important to have a thought. It's still 55 billion-- it's a huge amount of money. How does the honourable Member view it, and how can we act in order for consumers and also the public to buy more Swedish? You often have the knowledge, and you might also understand that we in Sweden have fantastic products to offer.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-693	Madam President, I would like I wonder most of all how the Christian Democrats think about removing the requirements of the environmental code for agricultural activities. What is the problem in the environmental code? Is it that the environmental code also applies to agriculture? Do not the Christian Democrats want any rules at all on how to deal with the pesticides and hazardous chemicals used, about the storage of diesel or about other activities that normally occur on a farm? It actually exists regardless of whether the farm is conventional or organic. Yeah, maybe not pesticides, but a lot of other things. Shouldn't it be regulated at all? If we agree that no environmentally hazardous activities should occur on a farm, then the environmental code will not be needed. But we do have legislation to ensure that there is order and order in the environmental field and that everyone is able to comply with those rules. Madam President, I would like The Green Party strongly advocates that we have increased self-sufficiency, but also increased self-sufficiency when it comes to food in Sweden. Then of course we need to buy more Swedish. One thing I have recently noted is that Swedish-produced organic food is now being replaced in certain areas in stores with imported conventional food. This applies, for example, to a food such as ice cream. I've bought organic ice cream before, but now you can buy veggie ice cream that is imported.
i-PLUWvW7tsbMtz7G8Adcorc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Maria Gardfjell! The European Commission wants to encourage organic production for climate reasons, among other reasons. I have two questions. The first is: does the Green Party also want that? My second question is: how does the honourable Member think organic farming compare with Swedish conventional agriculture in terms of the climate load per kilo produced – let us say – meat? For the sake of simplicity, I'll tell you what I believe. It's that echo wins if you don't count per kilo of product. But if you do, it's about even beards. Let's start with the two questions.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-700	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Staffan Eklöf! We have great reason to talk more about organic farming. As we know, we will eventually deal with the action plan in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. Organic farming contributes to 8 of the 17 global objectives of Agenda 2030, including the key objective of combating climate change. Among other things, the IPCC report on land use shows that organic farming is preferable. The European Commission also says in its paper that organic farming, while waiting for us to have a completely fossil-free agriculture, is the best thing. It is also controlled and certified, and it is emphasised that it is the best thing. When it comes to the question of comparing organic and conventional food per kilogram of unit produced, one has to ask what agriculture should produce. Agriculture shall produce food. But it will also produce clean water, clean air, earthworms in the soil, biodiversity and various ecosystem services. It can be about tourism, tourism and quality. Since agriculture is not just going to produce food, we cannot really stick to comparing only per kilogram of food produced. However, in the case of milk and meat production, the difference between organic and conventional production is considerably smaller.
i-3yFbK3Efy2tkQge5DrAKBN	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Maria Gardfjell! The IPCC and the European Commission move at global and EU level respectively. I would argue that when it comes to Swedish conditions, the difference is smaller. There comes a lot better conventionally, because we have such a good conventional agriculture. Why is that? Well, echo has a disadvantage to the climate because it is more extensive production. Conventionally there is a disadvantage in the use of fertilizers. It contributes significantly to climate emissions, not least because it is currently produced with fossil energy. However, there are initiatives to produce nitrogen without fossil energy in Sweden. There are initiatives to produce phosphorus from Swedish slag heaps. And there are initiatives with perennial cereal, which would be very good for the climate. All of this is available for conventional but not for echo. This can cause organic production to suddenly become significantly worse for the climate. Is it not problematic that we are locking ourselves in with organic production in a single solution, which can certainly be developed within its framework but is still more static than conventional agriculture? We cannot apply all the achievements in terms of technology and knowledge in organic farming. Over time, therefore, the conventional will become increasingly environmentally friendly, while echoing stands and rammers. There is a risk that this will happen. Wouldn't it be better to relax the eco-acquis and focus only on environmental benefits and production and peel away the pieces that don't contribute to the common goal? One example is the proposal that is now coming about heterogeneous seed; it is in the ecological action plan. But then I'll precede the event.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-709	Madam President, I would like If I did not hear it wrong, Staffan Eklöf also pointed out in his speech that ecologically can be an example in certain contexts. I think that is quite an important part of this discussion. Today we have a little over 3 000 organic farmers working with organic production based on their starting point and the rules that exist in the EU on organic production but which are also in a development phase. They develop agriculture and organic farming very strongly. I am the very first to welcome the fact that things are also happening in conventional agriculture. It is absolutely essential if fertiliser is to be used in agriculture that it can be produced using fossil-free energy and not as it is today using oil and natural gas. It is also extremely important to remember that the benefits of conventional agriculture can also be examples of organic farming. The only farmer I have visited who has had perennial cereal is an organic farmer. This is therefore technology that can be used in both forms of production. When it comes to the question of organic farming being more extensive, thus producing less food per unit area, one has to say that it can be a huge advantage. The fact that an area unit has an agriculture that is not so intensive can lead, for example, to less discharges of surplus substances on the total. Although it is more per kilogram product, it is the total amount that goes out into nature that counts.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-713	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to go for landing in the debate on agricultural policy – it is terribly boring! We have talked about organic versus conventional production many times here. Instead, I shall turn this debate in a slightly different direction so that we do not get caught up in old familiar exchanges of views. First of all, the debate on agriculture as an environmentally dangerous activity. It is interesting to mention at the same time that if I grow rapeseed at home on the farm it is an environmentally dangerous activity. Then I leave the rape to a biorefinery, and then it is an environmentally dangerous activity. Then someone drives their car on this– then it's an environmentally friendly alternative. That's interesting! It was a parenthesis. The speech, Madam President, highlighted the need to invest in young farmers; we need more young farmers. I am the first to agree, and I see that today there are major concerns for young farmers when it comes to entering the market. An incredible amount of capital is needed both to enter as a tenant on a farm and to buy a farm. There is an incredible amount of tied-up capital for those who buy on a machine park and possibly start a herd. There has been support in CAP for young farmers. It's been pretty low support. One might wonder if this is the way we need to go: should we get support for young farmers from the common agricultural policy, or should we find solutions nationally? It would be very interesting to hear a discussion about this. But two minutes is a long time, and I think that we can also discuss the question of conventional versus organic farming. For public health was mentioned here, and it would be interesting to hear a discussion about it.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-719	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for these important questions! I will start with this with the young farmers. The essence of my speech was that if I may wish one thing for Swedish agriculture, it is that we will get more young farmers and even more farmers, more gardeners and more food business operators. It is extremely important to discuss how we can get more young farmers and how we can create interest in it. In the evaluation of the vulnerability presented by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture last week, we saw that Finland has a higher proportion of young farmers and that Finnish politicians believe that this is due, among other things, to the existence of social security systems specifically targeted at agriculture. I think this is an important discussion for us. At all, this is by creating an attractiveness for the farming profession something that we have missed. Then there are the other aspects raised by John Widegren. It is difficult to be a young person and not have access to capital and not be able to get bank loans to buy farms, machinery, livestock and such. That's why we need to find a way of working where we create a career opportunity in the farming profession where you can start small. Then we must not forget to support small farms.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-723	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answer! The reasoning about young people and agriculture is interesting and relevant. Indeed, we see that the farming community is getting quite old. There are major problems to be solved. I hope that we will get back to that discussion, because we probably need to take it seriously in the future. The speech said that organic production is market driven, that it is capable of standing on its own feet and so on. I'm a little skeptical there. Especially in debates with the Green Party, I tend to raise the issue of organic production. I think that organic production is quite dependent, for example, on manure from conventional production, from pig sows, laying hens and other things. It uses manure from conventional production in organic production. On the contrary, manure from organic production can be used in conventional production. I don't really understand why, but you don't. These branches of production are thus interdependent, and therefore it is even more unpleasant to set up percentages. Why can't the market at this point be free? If someone wants to engage in organic production, let it do so on the basis of the conditions that prevail! Let those who want to engage in conventional production do so! We can see that conventional production is developing incredibly much now. Previously, fossil-free manure was mentioned and our sensible and good work in Sweden with regard to plant protection products – not pesticides. It would be interesting if Maria Gardfjell would discuss this a little. The Green Party has a tendency to cling to organic production and hold back the praises of the conventional one.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-727	Madam President, I would like Once upon a time– it's now very long since– I worked on Krav, and then I interviewed farmers who had gone over to organic farming. The most common answer then, in the 90s, was that they had chosen to move over to organic to avoid using chemical pesticides. So farmers thought about their own health. Much has certainly happened since then in dealing with pesticides and such things, but it is undoubtedly a public health issue. Farmers' health and working environment are vulnerable when using chemical pesticides, for example. This is, of course, something that is much more serious in other countries, where perhaps more dangerous plant protection products and also illegal chemical pesticides are used. There are many interesting arguments about the links between organic and conventional farming. I do not believe that the contradiction between ecologically and conventionally that we have seen in politics and in the social debate is particularly relevant to the vast majority of farmers. In agricultural circles, there can also be interaction between the different forms of production. I welcome the fact that the organic industry, for example in the horticulture sector, can take care of the large quantities of manure produced in, for example, the poultry industry. Otherwise it is a disposal problem for these farmers to get rid of the manure. At worst, this could be an environmentally dangerous activity.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-731	Madam President, I would like It is outdoor life in 2021. A wide range of efforts are being made to ensure that more people seek their way out into nature. During the year, about 150 different actors in outdoor life will be involved in getting more to try this. Many people already do. That's probably because they feel good about it. The year of outdoor life will therefore hopefully mean that more people discover the benefits of participating in outdoor life. It is also about increasing general knowledge and awareness of the values of outdoor life and the right of public access. The latter is not least important, where we see a lot of challenges. For some, it is enough to discover these opportunities, but for others it is important that accessibility is also improved. This applies to distance to nature, the possibility of getting there in a practical way and also the accessibility of, for example, strollers and wheelchairs once you are in place. It is good that in this report there are a number of motions and ideas that remind us of this. Even before the pandemic, we saw an increased and great interest in these issues and in being out in nature. It has been further pushed through the pandemic, and it is wonderful to see. But of course it also presents a lot of challenges. On the one hand, there are risks to the right of public access and, on the other hand, there are risks to the organisation's life. A large part of outdoor life is built on voluntary forces that are now getting more to do and sometimes also have increased responsibility and weight. It is important that they are able to cope with the great challenge that this entails and also take advantage of the opportunities that it brings. The government and the cooperation parties have provided money for this. That is good, but my assessment is that we will have to continue to have outdoor life clearly in focus in the future, not only this year but also the coming years. The Committee on Culture will play its part through a specific evaluation of outdoor policy in the coming year. Madam President, I would like Sport has also been severely affected by the pandemic, some sports more than others. Above all, it applies to sports where it is physical proximity and training and competitions indoors, but we see that everyone else has also been affected. Large arrangements are difficult to implement, but small-scale activities have also been difficult to implement at times. Support is important. Support has been given. We have not been able to provide support to cover and solve all the problems that exist. We will have to continue to provide financial support as long as there is a pandemic and as long as there are restrictions. I also believe that there will be long-term consequences of this. The down-recruitment is likely to have been reinforced. It is more difficult to recruit new people for sport, not least those who are not in circles where it is common to participate in sport. Perhaps it is also the case that the non-profit forces in this area will find it difficult to cope with the future, as it places huge demands. Even those outside the sport itself have been affected in various ways. There have, of course, been fewer experiences, fewer big events and less of the elite that can be viewed and inspired by. This, of course, affects the view of sport in Sweden. We are likely to see consequential effects that last for many years in the form of reduced power in the sports movement but also lower public health and the risk of a diluted civil society. Sport policy can really be about most of it, Madam President. It's training times, it's school and fritis, it's parents' interest and efforts, it's values, it's facilities to be built, it's how to promote spontaneity but also how to promote everyday exercise. A little too often sports policy is about the negative – cheating, doping, match fixing, crime and how other people try to exploit the weaknesses of the system. We also see problems with gender inequality, physicality and sexual harassment. Sometimes sport policy is about everything sport can be expected to do, i.e. sport as an instrument. It will improve integration and public health, it will break loneliness and it will entertain us. Sport is certainly too good in society, but it also has value in itself. I think it is important to recall that. It is not just an instrument for other things, but it has a value in itself. Sometimes you almost forget that it's basically about something that the sports person does because it's fun, because it feels good, because it's a way to hang out and because you challenge and develop yourself. Sport must also be allowed to just be fun. Sport itself must not be forgotten when you talk about sport policy, not just as a tool but as an end in itself. All that is called sports policy is there to determine the conditions for that activity. It's not the other way around, so to speak. It is therefore important that sport has good general conditions, long-term conditions and great freedom. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4. Madam President, I would like Finally, a few words also on the third area of the report, gambling policy. Several motions raise the question of order and order in the gambling market. After the re-regulation, we really need to follow developments very closely, not least now during the pandemic: has it changed behaviour or not? It is important that serious actors are given good conditions but also that rogue actors are stopped. It is important that those at risk of getting caught in addiction receive help early. It is important to stop match fixing and other cheating. There is no doubt that there are problems with gambling. Nor is there any doubt that there can be positive parts for many people. It can be a nice relaxation; it can be the hope of fast cash. For associations, this is often an important source of income. The Liberals welcomed the re-regulation that took place. We are prepared to contribute to its proper and serious care. Madam President, I would like With this, I therefore call for reservation number 4 in the report.
i-KEDY8E3qekWqmx41S7XLM	Madam President, I would like The Culture Committee's second report is a motion for a resolution. I think we can stop at it a little bit. It is usually said that it is now a motion report, and then perhaps not as much attention is paid to it as to the proposals we are dealing with. But this is the thinking of all the Members of this House in one way or another, either through committees or through individual motions. I've been thinking about that concept for a long time. In fact, we are many times very close. When we now discuss a subject such as sport in a cultural committee – both sport and culture are areas that know no borders, which unite – it would be a wishful thought from me, even if I live in reality and know that we are going into an election year eventually, that we might still be able to spend time thinking about what we actually have in common and not what divides us. Madam President, I would like This exercise report is divided into several parts. I was going to devote myself to sports and outdoor life and over-the-counter games, horse sports and other fun – everything is fun – to my esteemed colleague John Weinerhall a little later in the debate. After all, we have all felt the effects, Madam President, of this pandemic and all its restrictions. Many of the activities in sport are particularly affected. The outdoor life, on the other hand, has received a boom. It is in a way fun that the year we are in now, 2021, is the year of outdoor life. It coincided in a somewhat macabre way, I guess. But the consequences have also been that people have found their way out into our nature to a much greater extent – cycling, hiking, canoeing, fishing and long-distance skating when possible. This also means, of course, that there will be a overload both on our nature and on different joints and the like that normally does not have this kind of pressure. This week we had talks with Minister for the Environment Bolund on the Culture Committee. It is important that efforts are made to restore and expand where necessary. As the previous speaker Christer Nylander said, additional funds need to be made available to enable this to happen. The other side we have seen is that this pandemic, Madam President, has also been very sedentary. The Pep report from Generation Pep is published every year, and it is not a fun reading this year. 30 percent of teenagers spend five hours in front of the screen or more outside school hours. Nearly half of the teenagers sleep less than the recommended eight to nine hours a day. Two out of ten children and young people meet the World Health Organisation's recommendations on physical activity in one hour per day. The concept of a lifestyle epidemic that you use is very interesting and something I think we should dwell on. We need to think about how we also get the Swedish people started in the re-starting work. This applies, of course, to older people, like me, but most important is this for our coming generation of children and young people. Madam President, I would like Then I would like to dwell on a few of the points we wish to make on behalf of the Moderates, for which we have reserved ourselves in favour of the report. One is the financing of training facilities. Many of the sports that are practiced are in need of training facilities. We know that the vast majority of training facilities are from the 40s and 50s. A lot of people are from the '70s. They're in need of renovation. They are also in need of start-up. We have new rules that apply today for the working environment, and this is a work environment. Boverket and the Centre for Sport Research are working on developing different new training facilities. It is of course good with studies and with different projects, but we know all who have our roots in the municipal world that people around the country struggle to maintain these training facilities. We want the Moderates, Madam President, to look at the possibility of other parallel methods of funding to assist the municipalities. There has been a fund in Denmark since the mid-1990s that various sports associations and facilities can apply for funds from. We would like to look at this, because the work lags behind and the training facilities crumble if we do not do something soon. Madam President, I would like The second point I would like to make is a little on the same theme. We also want private actors to be able to apply for support for children's and young people's activities. What do we mean by that? Well, the state aid paid out goes through the National Sports Federation. And that's a good thing; you do your job. But the support goes to members of the organization. If you look at the Swedish Sports Federation's membership list, you can see that it is mainly about team sports. Here I have to be generalizing, and I don't like to be, but it's research and facts that speak: It's predominantly guys, boys, who engage in team sports while girls mostly engage in sports with an individual practitioner. It will then be a misallocation because the municipal law does not allow for the benefit of individuals. We want to review a legislative proposal that also enables private actors to support children's and young people's activities. The Government's response expresses concern that the government itself will have to designate which associations to provide this support. But you don't have to do that at all, I think. Look at the question and think bigger, wider and new! At least investigate the issue, because we need everyone in society to help – public, business and private – to re-launch, above all, sports, but also to support outdoor life in this country. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you to accept reservation 11 in paragraph 7.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-765	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the approval of Amendment No 15, but of course we also agree with our other reservations in this report. I don't know anything about luck, just that the more I practice the more luck I have, said Ingemar Stenmark. Swedish sport would not have been what it is, but all our stars have acted as important role models for children and young people in their sports. Swedish sport would not have been what it is either, but all the enthusiasts in sports club life around the country. This important basic bolt has been made even more clear during the ongoing pandemic, when among other children and young people have had their training and their contestant converted. The government yesterday announced that children and young people born in 2002 or later will be allowed to compete. That is a good thing, and it is something that we have wanted to see for a long time. We know that sport has lost many practitioners, especially among children and young people. When you can no longer exercise your sport in the form of training or competition, the motivation to achieve new successes is often lost. For every day that goes without physical activity, we can expect consequential effects later in life. It also affects public health in general. It is for this reason that we are very concerned about the negative trend in the number of children and young people who stop playing sports. Another important aspect of sport is the parasport, which has a great deal of commitment in our country and many practitioners. More and more associations offer parasports, but so far there are not in all municipalities. We wish that national sports support and help associations even more in those municipalities and counties that today do not offer parasports to get started and offer this so that it exists throughout the country. People with intellectual disabilities often find it difficult to find meaningful leisure time. They are easily affected by isolation, inactivity and mental illness. Even prejudice from the outside world often prevents this group from participating in a natural way in society. It is therefore important that a national strategy is in place to include this group as well and to encourage a healthier life. Another important part of public health work is outdoor life. For me personally, it is one of my absolute heart issues, which has most likely not escaped anyone. In our committee exercise there are a number of proposals to improve the role of outdoor life in society. On the occasion of the ongoing pandemic, I intend to focus on two toats relating to how this has affected the area. Many take part in and use nature and outdoor life in different ways. Depending on how you practice outdoor life, wear on joints in vulnerable nature can occur. This is something that is particularly topical at a time when many Swedes choose to instead of travelling abroad holidaying in Sweden and in nature. It is of course gratifying that more and more people find their way into nature and get the opportunity to take part in outdoor life in different ways. However, the explosion in the number of people in open-air areas has worked hard on land and hiking trails. In view of this, a review and, by extension, an action plan is needed to deal with various forms of wear and tear on nature in vulnerable environments, not least to support the work of county boards in this regard. Littering and sanitary problems have long affected outdoor life and nature in general. In the wake of the pandemic, these problems have increased further. Among other things, the mountain world has had many new tourists, which is gratifying, but unaccustomed mountain hikers with insufficient knowledge of how to behave in nature have led to further problems with sanitary problems. In recent years, attention has been paid to a problem involving the spread of harmful bacteria in watercourses and thus in the drinking water available in nature. Several organisations have made valuable efforts on this issue, but more is needed. In view of this, it is important that funds are assigned a task for Swedish Outdoor Life to investigate and develop an action plan to address the problem. Madam President, I would like As the first party, the Swedish Democrats last year presented the Riksdag's first committee motion with 15 proposals for e-sports. E-sport is a collective concept for games and competitions performed on computers, game consoles, phones and tablets in virtual environments where people play different kinds of digital games on their own, in teams or against each other, usually over the internet. 80 per cent of Sweden's population practice some form of e-sport. E-sporten has put Sweden on the map and contributes everything from jobs to tax revenue, but when e-sporten is not recognised as a cultural form or a sport, this poses a large number of problems and challenges, which risk leading to Sweden losing its leading position in the field. Sport refers to physical activity or exercise. Sport refers to the same type of activity but with the addition of the element of competition, i.e. that you measure your performance in relation to other practitioners. Chess and poker are two examples of sports where the effort is more mental than physical. In the same way, e-sport is a type of activity based on mental effort, focus and concentration that can last for several hours in connection with competition. However, it is important that we continue to distinguish between sport and sport, even if the e-sport would be classified as official sport. The e-sport leads us unsearched into the gaming market area. The public health aspect is central to our gaming market policy due to the desire to minimise the risk of people who play developing gambling addiction and getting stuck in gambling problems. The Swedish democrats are behind the model with a licensing system that is now in place in the Swedish gaming market. The situation in the gambling market before the reregulation and the new legislation, where parts of the market were in the hands of unregulated operators, was unsustainable. One of the objectives of the reregulation was to achieve a high degree of channeling, which means to get a high proportion of gaming players to want to operate within the Swedish licensing system. The level of channelling has been a controversial issue since the reregulation. Statskontoret's follow-up of the re-regulation of the gaming market has been important to see how the re-regulation in this area has fallen out. Over the years, we have unfortunately seen a declining trend according to Statskontoret's latest interim report concerning 2020. The channeling rate was estimated to be down to low 85 per cent in 2020 while the channeling rate in 2019 was 88 per cent. At the same time, the government has pointed out as an objective that the channelling rate should be at least 90 per cent. This is worrying and must be taken into account when taking action in this area. The proportion of illegal gambling must be reduced. Outside the Swedish licensing system on the gaming market, there is a market with unlicensed alternatives aimed at Swedish players. Players can choose to turn to these options instead of the licensed options available, for example for reasons such as the fact that these gambling sites offer bonuses and promotions that had not been allowed in licensed options. These sites also target high-risk players. The Swedish Democrats see it as very important for the legitimacy of the licensing system that exists in the reregulated Swedish gaming market that illegal players are clearly kept out of it.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-786	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in this report, but for time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation 10. This report deals with sport, outdoor life and games. I intend to go through each of these areas so that viewers and listeners can see what the Center Party is doing in these policy areas. The Center Party is concerned that young people seem to be moving less and less. Having a pulse-enhancing activity for one hour per day is a minimum to keep up with both physical and mental ill health. Children and young people have a whole life ahead of them, and good habits about diet and exercise are built up early. One group that we rarely highlight is older. The Center Party in its movements raises the need for older people's sports activities. I would particularly like to stress the need to keep muscles going. For older people strength training may be more important than cardio training. The Center Party has for many years stressed the importance of promoting a broad sporting life throughout the country where both established and new sports, including digital ones, become available to more people. This is more important than ever in view of the coronap pandemic. Madam President, I would like The influence of the Coronandemin on the sports movement, exercise and health is great. Through our budget cooperation, the Center Party has ensured that sport has received and is supported so that it can survive until we get through the pandemic. We also see how the coronapandemia has affected the conditions for an equal sport. We want to investigate this. I myself have come across examples from Sundsvall where female figure skaters at international elite level are not allowed to practice in the ice hall, while the city's hockey team, which plays in hockey ethos, which is the level below hockey all Swedish, which in turn is the level below the Swedish hockey league, SHL, gets to practice. Sundsvall Municipality interprets the Swedish Public Health Agency in such a way that the hockey team is considered professional athletes. That's why they get to practice, while the female figure skaters at international elite level are shut out. Madam President, I would like I would like to continue to talk about gender issues in sport. Sport is good for both physical and mental well-being. It is therefore important to find out why girls stop playing sports earlier. I would like an investigation to be carried out to develop proposals for solutions to these challenges, so that we can in turn give the Swedish Sports Federation a clearer mission to achieve gender equality in Swedish sports. Then, among other things, we need to review the distribution of grants and investment in civil engineering from a gender perspective. The existing tax legislation, which currently makes it more expensive and more difficult to sponsor women's sport than men's sport, should also be reviewed in this study. Madam President, I would like Another sporting issue that the Center Party has been pursuing for a long time is the need to create a national association-run parasports library. We want children and young people who want to try out different parasports to find their sport to do this. Parasport equipment is expensive. Therefore, a parasports library would be very useful. It is not just the issue of equipment that is a threshold. The Center Party also wants us to look at the practical obstacles that exist for people with disabilities and how we can facilitate the practice and competition in parasports. Madam President, I would like When cities are condensed and new communities are planned, consideration for sport and outdoor life must not be excluded. We have seen too many examples of sports areas being planned out or not being planned into new residential areas. We also have the very strange examples of how children's play and laughter on sports grounds are judged to be disturbing noise while the road next to the sports ground may have higher decibels than children's play may have. The same applies to motor sport, where the road to the motor stadium is allowed to noisy more than the engine stadium itself. These remarkable noise demands also risk killing the music and cultural life of our cities. To return to sports areas in social planning, we should have more spontaneous sports places in our urban environments. Playing children and young people must be allowed to be part of the cityscape. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we are good at organizing major events. I and the Center Party believe that the government and parliament should be in favour of attracting major international sporting events to Sweden. Major international sporting events have changed direction in recent years, in a positive way. Today we look more at how competitions can be conducted in a more environmentally and economically sound way than before. Falun and Dalarna will apply during the month of May to arrange the World Ski Championship 2027. Falun has arranged the World Ski Championships 1954, 1974, 1993 and 2015. For 2015, significant amounts were invested in the plant. It is therefore reasonable to use that investment for another World Ski Championship. Unfortunately, we did not get the Winter Olympics to Sweden. But if Stockholm, Falun and Åre would like to try one more time, I think that the state should support such an application. International sporting events give Sweden an opportunity to showcase us from our best side. Madam President, I would like Today, April 29, is the venereal open-air day. Because of the pandemic, Swedes are moving more in nature today than we have in many years. It is therefore good that 2021 is the year of outdoor life. There are campaigns going on around Sweden to get more people to discover the fantastic opportunities that our nature combined with our right of public access provides. The Center Party is pleased to see that the investment in outdoor life is not a one-off venture but that we do as our neighbour Norway and make it a recurring event, for example every four years. Outdoor life contributes to better both physical and mental health. I think we should make better use of these values. Madam President, I would like We who live in the countryside and also those who live in cities know the great importance of the village cottage, the district farm and other community facilities for the local community. Meeting places and premises for different types of activities are important infrastructure for democracy and security as well as civil society and meaningful leisure activities. The association-run assembly halls play a very important role here. Despite the importance of the assembly halls, it is felt in many places that it is difficult to run the business in the long term because the funding is fragmented and often uncertain. I believe that the assembly halls and the associations that run them should be given long-term opportunities to operate throughout the country. The assembly halls are also important from a different perspective: in crisis situations or when society needs the support of associations, for example when school premises are closed, when forest fires are taking place or when a place for vaccination against covid-19 is needed. This is something that is usually handled locally between associations and municipalities. However, I believe that national preparedness is also needed to ensure access to facilities that can be used in various crisis situations and that support for public assembly facilities should therefore be reviewed. Among other things, the aim of the aid could be extended and the strategic importance of the assembly halls for society's emergency preparedness established. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party would like to stress that it is extremely important to safeguard channelling within the now reregulated gaming market, that is to say, a very large proportion of gambling is done by companies with licences. It is a prerequisite for good player protection. Instead, the option of lower channeling makes gambling unregulated and therefore without player protection. Sweden's goal with gaming policy must be to have a healthy and secure gaming market under public control where the negative consequences of gambling can be reduced. We as many others take seriously how the coronapandemine affects gambling in Sweden, with increased indebtedness and mental illness as a result. The Center Party also believes that there must be moderation in advertising for gambling.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-805	Madam President, I would like Today, I am subscribing to the Committee on Culture. Exercise is a very effective way to combat ill health. It makes us feel better both physically and mentally. Many have witnessed this in the past year when isolation and shutdown of sports activities have hit us hard during the pandemic. When teams and competitions are not allowed, more people have found their way to the outdoor life or the gym, but golf clubs also show a boost. Fortunately, children have had to continue to practise, but on the youth side there have been severe restrictions. I saw an episode of teenage girls training handball in the dark out in the snow. It wasn't that easy. The effect has been that associations have lost young people, and now there is a concern that they will not return after the pandemic is over. They have also had distance studies for a long time, and one might suspect that they have been sitting at screens for long periods in a not entirely ergonomic way. This is a group that is at risk of both physical and mental illness. However, we should be aware that many young people lacked a leisure activity even before the pandemic struck. In one survey, about 40 percent stated that they could not afford to do what they would like to do. The same number said that the distance to leisure activities was a problem. The Spring Budget of the Left Party therefore proposes to attract more children and young people to find an activity that they enjoy. We set aside 500 million to create free activities, not just on summer holidays, as the government proposes, but all year round. The same survey also showed that as many as 22 percent said that the activity was not available or adapted to them. Of course, it's very disappointing numbers. Parasport Sweden has conducted a study to identify obstacles and limitations to a physically active life with sport for people with disabilities. The report takes a holistic approach and maps all the elements that record for a person's ability to play sports. These range from habilitation, rehabilitation and visual services to travel services, treatment, skills, finance, employment and the family's ability to help. The result was to equate with an obstacle course. To get through the obstacle course and reach the goal of a physically active life, many different obstacles need to be overcome along the way. Some obstacles are easy to cross while others are much more difficult. The conditions a person has together with what support you get determine how challenging the obstacle course to a leisure activity is. Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Left Party don't want it like this. We need to work much more focused to live up to the commitments Sweden has through the UN rules on participation and equality for people with disabilities. These include sport, recreation and leisure activities. It is time to tear down the obstacles that exist and enable all people in our country to live an active and healthy life. Both this year and last year we have had a whole battery of various proposals to just tear down obstacles to leisure activities. We have proposals relating to the right to take sports equipment with us in the transport service, the right to go to competitions with the transport service and an investigation to review the funding of the parasports. We have previously proposed 1 billion in investment aid to build new available sports fields. Yesterday our proposal for our amending budget was presented, and there is targeted support to help young people with disabilities get started with sport now that they have had to isolate themselves during the pandemic for so long. Today's report contains a proposal to review the costs for individuals. In many cases, engaging in sports when you have a disability can be very costly. For example, a wheelchair for rugby costs about SEK 75,000, and for those who are blind and need a guide or guide for skiing or running, for example, it is very expensive. Often, the basic rule is that the municipality and region do not provide sports and leisure facilities. You have to do it yourself. Medical arguments are usually needed to access the aids. A special leg prosthesis for running or a bicycle for competition is therefore often not covered, and it is up to everyone to raise for own resources. This puts sports at risk of becoming a class issue and many are excluded from the sports they would otherwise like to practice. At the same time, disabled people have a weak position in the labour market. They have low replacements. Families with children with disabilities have a weaker economy. The Left Party believes that it is important for society to offer the help needed for everyone to have the right to sports and exercise. We therefore want to see an investigation to close the economic gap that arises between disabled athletes and those without. I therefore support our reservation 7.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-818	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 1 and 8. In 2021, the sports movement in Sweden plays a very important role for individuals and society as a whole. It offers a community and a platform for people to develop. Swedish sport has about 3.1 million members and 650 000 non-profit leaders who are fighting for children's and young people's development. Sport plays a major role in strengthening public health and young people's access to education. It should be inclusive and remove barriers to exploiting different competences, experiences and talents. The Christian Democrats want a broad review of public support for health-related activity and health care. Such a review should pay attention to the possibilities for older people, children and persons with disabilities to exercise and exercise. 2020 was a year when many children and young people stopped sports due to the pandemic. As someone said earlier, the activity was already ahead of the pandemic. According to the Swedish Sports Federation, this is about a minus 6 million participants in 2020. That is very unfortunate. Indoor sports are the hardest hit, especially those involving close contact. Innebandy, gymnastics and martial arts have been particularly affected. There is a fall of 40%. Extra hard hit is the parasport that has decreased by about 51 percent. Happily, football is about the same level of activity as before, and sports such as golf, figure skating and equestrian sports have increased. But overall it is a serious decline for Swedish, youthful sports. The imminent risk is that children who quit sports will not find their way back to sport after the pandemic. That would be very serious from a public health point of view. Healthy habits, such as exercise, are established early in life. Madam President, I would like Mental and physical ill-health also have a significant impact on the national economy. Civil society sports clubs, associations and assemblies play a central role in countering these problems. Civil society could do more with the right conditions. If more children participate in sports or association activities, this will have significant health effects. The Christian Democrats believe that the work on inclusion within the sports movement cannot be stressed enough. Research shows that people with disabilities move less than the rest of the population. Efforts are needed to enable physical activity for these people. Madam President, I would like Participation in associations reduces exclusion and becomes a natural bridge to others in society. The networks and contacts provided by associations provide increased opportunities for, for example, work or own housing. Many children are found in a financial vulnerability that leads to segregation and ill-health. There are clear links between financial vulnerability and clearly worse health development in general, but also a clear link to increased mental illness. One explanation may be that children's leisure activities are expensive. The Christian Democrats have taken the impression of reforms in Nordic neighbours and believe that there is now a need for a broad reform that stimulates more people to move and engage in associations with a special focus on the children who are in financial vulnerability. The Government has proposed a targeted state grant to municipalities for free and contagion-proof love activities during the holidays of 2021 for children and young people aged 6 to 15 years. That is something that we Christian Democrats welcome. But – as someone also said earlier – don't let the activities be limited only to holidays! Too few children and young people achieve the recommended amount of physical activity. We Christian Democrats have developed something that we call the leisure card. It is for all children in grades 2 - 9. It is loaded with at least 500 SEK earmarked for participation fees in leadership-led activities in association life or cultural school. The amount of support will vary according to household finances. Children living in households with financial vulnerability will receive substantial support of up to SEK 2,400 per year on this card, which is very concrete. The reform means that almost 1 million children will receive support for active and meaningful leisure time. We allocate SEK 850 million to the leisure card. I have noticed in our debates in this House that there is beginning to be acceptance of the leisure card. You can often talk about rather fuzzy things, but here it is very concrete. It is a card charged with 500 SEK for all children in grades 2 - 9. Of course I'm proud of this proposal. It is really interesting that several other parties are now approaching this. In the past, I have discussed leisure money on a number of occasions with my political so-called opponents. It has been said that that is not something to invest in, for example because you want to see a general welfare that everyone should enjoy. The leisure allowance would only be available to vulnerable children in connection with social services. But the leisure card is for all children in grades 2 - 9. It is charged with 500 SEK. I have noticed an increase in the acceptance of those who have previously criticised leisure money, and I am very pleased about that. It was already before the pandemic a challenge to get more young people moving. This challenge is now even greater. We really need to change up to help our children to have a healthy and fun life in the community and joy of sports life. And I want to agree with Christer Nylander – it should be fun too.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-833	Madam President, I would like The beauty of sport is that it does not only belong to elite athletes, clubs, leaders, trainers or certain social classes. The beauty of sport is that it belongs to society. It also belongs to all fans. The beauty of sport is that it belongs to all of us. As a social democrat, I am convinced that changes happen when people hook arms and demand change, that together we make a difference. About two weeks ago, all of us who love football received a message that felt a bit like a lump in the stomach. Some of our by far the largest football clubs in Europe had decided to join forces and create a closed super league. But what happened? The decision was not anchored– not with the clubs, not with the players and not with the fans. Dissatisfaction was great. Fans, football players and clubs all over the world joined forces in protesting the greedy proposal. Today, the majority of the law has chosen to leave it. The charm of football – and all sport – is that you sometimes win and sometimes lose and that sometimes there comes a newcomer, a underdog, an unknown name or team, who makes a success. We love that. In closed series you lose that charm. Sport belongs to all of us. Madam President, I would like For over a year we have been living in a different reality from the one we are used to. For over a year, not only Sweden but the world has been fighting a pandemic that has now taken the lives of over 3 million people. But the pandemic is not just hitting our economy and our jobs hard. It also affects our everyday lives, our life patterns and our health. Sport, as we all know, was among the first to be affected when society shut down. But sports were united, and despite pain and pain for themselves, they were determined to be part of the struggle to stop the spread of the disease. For this I will always be grateful. But thankfulness is also mixed with sorrow, because I see how the responsibility that has been taken hits hard on sport. The Pandemin hits our sports movement hard as we know it – against its economy, against its membership development, against its breadth of activity, and more. It hits our public health and our physical and mental health. It strikes hard at the community in a society where people can meet in joy and sorrow through the love of sport. Throughout the pandemic, I have been in constant dialogue with the sports movement at all levels. Everywhere, the same picture hits me. There is depression and concern for the future, but there is also a great struggle that inspires. Clubs and associations have changed their trainings. Coaches and leaders have found new ways to communicate with their athletes and teams. Associations in different sports have started dialogues to check how others are doing to reset and make sure to have infection-proof trainings. At the moment the motivation campaign Backa sport is also under way. It is a project where famous sports profiles in different sports inspire and pepper others to continue – to hold on, hold on and keep going. The cycle of sport depends on its members. Of course, this is something that has been put at its head when you can no longer practice what you love. In discussions with local sports associations in Hässleholm, it became clear how difficult it is to motivate a swimmer or a wrestler to continue to practise their sport when you cannot be in the pool or on the wrestling mat but have to change your training and run on loops in the forest, for example. Above all, this effect has been seen in our young people. It is a group that must be prioritised in the further work – for their long-term health and for them to continue to carry the sports movement. They're the ones who'll be part of the width. They are the ones who in the future will wear our Swedish colours with pride. They're the ones who are supposed to be our future judges, coaches and leaders. They're the ones who'll inspire the next generation. That is why I am grateful that the government not only has sent large packages of support to sport, but has also pointed out that this support should particularly mitigate the negative effects of the coronapndemin on children and young people. Yesterday, I was delighted to go in and change my speech. Then came the message that we can finally get started with matches and competitions for children and young people. The statement from the government and Amanda Lind is clear. As soon as the contamination situation allows, there are more opening plans for joy, motivation and community. Finally, we will also have to work to strengthen sport in the long term. The inequalities and thresholds that exist in sport must be removed. We Social Democrats will never accept sport becoming a class issue or excluding people because of gender or functional variations. This has to go. The beauty of sport is that it belongs to all of us. Madam President, I would like Today is the day of outdoor life. I fully support the idea that Swedish Outdoor Life has that all of Sweden needs an outdoor day. I hope that there will be a number of activities in schools and in the workplace today in this spirit. It is of course incredibly rewarding to see that more and more people in 2020 have found their way out into Swedish nature. Me and my daughter are two of them ourselves. At home in Hässleholm it has been full in the barbecue areas around Hovdala, which is a fantastic natural area in my home municipality. Seeing people take responsibility and find infectious ways to socialize with their loved ones through a shared walk in nature or over a grilled sausage has made me happy. I hope that this is one of the positive consequences that will continue to exist. The year 2021 is also the year of outdoor life, and Svenskt Friluftsliv has a collaboration with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to implement it. As part of this, each month there will be a new theme, and about 150 actors involved in implementing it. Extra focus has been chosen on grades 4 to 6 and the people who are unaccustomed to moving in nature. The purpose of the year is, of course, to highlight outdoor life and to get more people to test it and continue with it in the long term, to raise awareness of the values of outdoor life and the right of public access and to increase collaboration between different organisations. One of the major challenges in this area is the population's rather low level of knowledge of nature and right of public access. For with rights comes also obligations. While more people are moving in nature, we also see how littering has increased. We have quite a consensus in the Committee on Culture that we need to strengthen this knowledge. I think we all agree that the school is of great importance to increase them. It was therefore gratifying when Minister for Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund announced that dialogues are being conducted with the Education Committee on this issue. Nature belongs to us all and everyone. As the knowledge of our forests, lakes, watercourses and mountains increases, the understanding of how people and nature must interact also increases. Madam President, I would like I have spoken before about the gambling abuse my brother has. Unfortunately, the pandemic has led to more people in my neighborhood developing a gambling addiction. You can no longer say no and think: just one more time. When it comes to the game questions, however, I did not intend to talk a lot about that. I have made it clear where we Social Democrats stand. We're supposed to protect consumers. We're going to reduce gambling addiction. We're going to strengthen the utility lottery. We're gonna stop the match fixing. We're here to protect our license system. The reason why I choose not to speak more specifically about this time is that tomorrow, 30 April, the window for the round of consultations on the final report of the Gaming Market Investigation will be closed. These are issues that we must continue to work on. We will soon have to debate them again. Madam President, I would like I see that I have exceeded the speaking time, and I apologise for that. I shall conclude by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Culture to be approved in the KRU2 report, and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-Fv8AVGKd8J6uUnB1at3Wnk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Wallentheim! We are not only spokespersons of cultural policy, but also spokespersons of sport policy. It's very inspiring. I very much respect your strong commitment to leisure, outdoor activities, scouts and other things that you're doing. Today, I would like to ask where we are with regard to the leisure card. It is possible that the leisure money previously had some flaws. The n was directed d to a particular category. It was not a general well-being, but they were simply directed d. What was then called for was a more general approach. Now we have the leisure card. We will bet SEK 850 million. My question is simply: can we find something in common here so that we can get on with this?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-862	I would remind the honourable Member that the Members speak through the President and do not use you and you.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-863	Madam President, I would like Had it been that Roland Utbolt had not requested a reply to my speech, I would probably have been almost disappointed. We have had this debate quite a few times about leisure money and at some point also about the leisure card or at least about the thoughts you had. I would like to take this opportunity to look at Mrs Engblom, who pointed out in her speech that the advantage of our committee is that we can usually find things that unite us rather than differ. Now it is, Utbolt, that you have reconsidered when it comes to leisure money. Instead, you have developed a leisure card. I appreciate that Roland Utbult and the Christian Democrats have found another way of presenting this, because I know that the purpose of it is good. I am one of those who have mentioned that we believe in general welfare. I will admit that the idea of the leisure card captures me more than the idea of leisure money. There's a basic idea that I think we can spin on. I still stand by the fact that we believe in the idea of spending money on welfare and on municipalities and regions that have to take responsibility for ensuring that more children and young people come into contact with sport and leisure life. If you continue to spin on this idea and continue to talk to us about how we increase the movement for our children and young people, I believe that we can jointly find solutions to increase the movement and reduce sedentary behaviour among children and young people.
i-CXxr2qeJRt338KhcFPZWRW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Wallentheim! Someone once said: We are fighting for culture both within our parties and out in society. Who said the winged words? It was actually Anna Wallentheim. I will never forget when the honourable Member said that. It was very apt and good. We fight for culture and sport both within our parties and in society. I'm very glad we're still finding something in common here. I thought I was going to sing How cold you are about your hand, Rodolphes aria in La Bohème of Puccini, but I didn't have to do that. Actually, here's an outstretched hand. We will see how far it will go, but I have good hopes for the future. Thank you for this!
i-7b92e61b1124a389-871	Madam President, I would like Like Roland Utbolt said, I still stand by that thought. We must fight within our parties to highlight leisure, sport and culture. Roland Utbolt highlights the fact that if we are to get changes, perhaps it is right here that we need to hook our arm. We want to reduce sedentary sitting and increase the movement for children and young people, people with functional variations but also for older people. We have quite a consensus on this. If we are to bring about changes regardless of government, perhaps we need to arm the committee in order to highlight this. I'm not buying the idea of the leisure card straight off. But if this idea continues to develop, and also our thinking about how we get municipalities and regions to stand up and take on this responsibility, we may be able to find a solution eventually.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-874	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. This year it is the year of outdoor life, and today it is the Swedish outdoor day. This day is celebrated every year to pay attention to and promote a good outdoor life – to be out in nature without leaving debris or traces. Of course, I had wished that I could have celebrated the day at a bird's lake with binoculars around my neck. But, Madam President, it will have to wait. I can celebrate the day by making a speech here in the Riksdag on outdoor life policy. But it is not possible to skip sport, which has been hit so hard by the coronapndemine. I would therefore like to say that it is very important for the sports movement to be able to operate on the basis of the current state of infection and, above all, can now have the power to start up again once the situation permits. This is particularly important for the health and well-being of children and young people, but, as many have said in the debate, it is about all of us. It is the Swedish Public Health Agency that can decide when, for example, there can be game games for children's and youth football again. During the pandemic, the government has given priority to children's and young people's opportunities to have a decent everyday life. This has been done by, for example, leaving schools and preschools open, and much more open than schools have been in many other countries in Europe and the world. Children and young people in Sweden have nevertheless been able to play sports to quite a large extent, except for a period this winter. Sweden is also different from many other countries. But now, like everyone I have heard speaking here before, I hope that the spread of infection will decrease, that vaccination will be carried out and that we can attract many children and young people back to sport and, of course, also to outdoor life. Nature is probably our largest sports facility. Because of the coronapndemine, many more people have found their way out. Thanks to the campaign conducted around the years of outdoor life, we reach even more people who come out into nature. The open-air policy objectives are about to turn ten years old, and they have been evaluated by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The evaluation contains a number of proposals. One proposal is to continue to support outdoor organisations. That is something that the Green Party really believes you need to do. Activities for children and young people are particularly prioritised, and it is especially about the opportunity for children and young people to learn to socialise with nature. The Green Party thinks this is important. And with this comes physical activity and knowledge of nature. A review of the social security contributions law is needed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also says that it is desirable that such a review be carried out and that there should be the same exception for outdoor organisations as for sports associations. This too seems to the Green Party to be worth supporting and pushing. Another point from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is that there is a need for more protection, management and restoration of valuable nature. Investments in the social values of forests are needed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that there is a need for milestones in the area of clean forestry. So we also need a greener forestry policy for the sake of outdoor life. It is a question of ensuring knowledge of the right of public access, which is, of course, the basic prerequisite for continued, and in some cases strengthened, action. It is needed to increase awareness of the right of public access. We need to strengthen the role of the school in outdoor work. I am glad that Per Bolund was in the Culture Committee the other day and was talking about these issues. During the pandemic the visitor pressure in the nature reserve has increased. In some places it has led to wear, litter and congestion. This has led Friluftspromotion to publish an article quite recently and appealed to us politicians to take strong action. We have a very important task in ensuring that we can strengthen opportunities for increased outdoor activities now that so many have finally found their way out. The focus of Friluftspromotion is good connections with public transport and cycling to different natural areas. You want to see clear information on the internet with maps and rules in several languages, but also signs out in nature. There should be better information about the right of access, and you want to see efforts to build more leads, wind shelters and fire sites. It's about putting up trash cans. It is also a matter of ensuring that there is silence in the areas so as to shield noise from the surrounding nature. Of course, you should also invest in adaptation for people with different functional variations. Just as in this debate we have talked about parasporten, we will probably start talking more about parafriluftslivet in the future. It is a tremendous joy for many who have a disability to get out into nature. This also requires investments in various disability adjustments of trails and places in the form of ramps, tactile signs and so on. Extra conditions are needed for those who have special interests. It can be winter trails for tourist skis and trails for mountain bikes. This is precisely the case with cycling trails parallel to the hiking trails is extremely important in order not to tear down the hiking trails. Madam President, I would like The right of public access, as I said before, is extremely important. And it's about to become a World Heritage Site. It's fantastic; it's really a unique opportunity we have in Sweden that everyone can come out into nature. Six out of ten Swedes are now saying that they are against a weakening of the beach protection, according to a study that Sifo has done. The public wants to continue to have access to beaches, swimming and outdoor activities. The size of the wallet must not determine the possibility of this. The risk is probably quite great that if we loosen the rules around the beach shelter, more of the most valuable nature, which is the most loved of Swedes, will disappear. I find that very unfortunate. We need to take this with us now and take it into account when beach protection is discussed and negotiated in politics in the future. We must not risk the Swedes' opportunities to walk, hike, swim, add with the boat at a dock and so on. I would like to conclude by saying that I thought it was an interesting debate, Madam President, from the Christian Democrats on the leisure card. It sounds very positive to invest in such a thing. But I must add that there is a total blow in the air in a situation where the Christian Democrats are joining forces with the Swedish Democrats to lower the general and general child allowance. I hope that doesn't happen.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-894	Madam President, I would like I would like to dwell on the questions of gambling, because my colleague Annicka Engblom has well explained everything else in the report. Despite the fact that more than two years have passed since the new gaming law came into being in broad political consensus, the gaming market still raises major political debate. The handshake made by the opposition at the time with the red-green government is increasingly drifting apart. The whole idea of re-regulation was to provide security for players, predictability for the players and clear rules of play, not least on the part of the state. All of this is put at risk by the government's undermining of the reform. Madam President, I would like The aim of the re-regulation was that at least 90 per cent of the gaming would take place with operators with a Swedish licence. Today, figures show that about 75 percent of online casinos play at gaming companies with a Swedish license. This means that a quarter of all gambling on online casinos is done by foreign illegal gaming companies, operators who really should not be allowed to offer games at all on the Swedish market. Immediately after the re-regulation, the government set up an investigation that would, among other things, review how marketing bans could be implemented, despite the fact that the market had not sat down and that it was really far too early to draw any conclusions about the re-regulation. I can't interpret it as anything but a populist outcome to stifle an opinion there and then. Unfortunately, as a result, the investigation has now also proposed a partial marketing ban, which we Moderates are opposed to, as channeling risks further deteriorating. In addition, they have attracted gaming companies to Sweden to solve Swedish license. They then want to ban the marketing of their products. One important aspect that is forgotten here is the issue of commercial freedom of expression. Companies that legally operate in Sweden must of course also be given the opportunity to market their products. Otherwise, there is a risk that many will find illegal gambling sites that simply lack responsibility for those who play. Madam President, I would like Now the government has added another investigation, which will look at how unlicensed games can be stopped. It is welcome, but it has chosen not to give the investigation the task of reviewing how the implementing provision in the gaming law should be designed. A change in it could have made it illegal to offer games to Swedish consumers even if they do not directly address the Swedish market. Today, for example, they are required to charge in Swedish kronor or have a website in the Swedish language. It is not illegal if they do not have this. We Moderates would have liked to see this as an investigation directive. Another thing that this investigation should look at is the question of how match fixing can be prevented. It is very good, because neither sport, the gaming companies nor the spectators are the valet of its existence. In addition, it feeds organized crime. Here too, the Moderates have proposals, but these are also proposals that the government parties have said no to. Among other things, it is a matter of giving sports players and gaming companies an obligation to share information among themselves in case of suspicion of match fixing. They do not have that obligation today, and they are therefore not allowed to share that information because of the General Data Protection Regulation. Another measure we want to get is for Sweden to sign the Council of Europe Convention against Match Fixing. Sweden has not yet done so even though it was adopted already in 2014. Madam President, I would like Another concern is the government's temporary regulation on responsible gaming measures, which contains a number of restrictions on the gaming market. The most intervention is the one about deposit limits. Although gambling problems have apparently not increased during the pandemic, the government has argued this as an argument for the measures. The Government of Shekarabi has been notified by the undersigned as this appears to be unfounded. Using the pandemic as a pretext for severely restricting legal activities is very serious. It risks the entire Swedish licensing model. In addition, the Regulation is now scheduled to be extended. There is every reason for the Riksdag to be self-critical that the government was given such a large mandate to impose restrictions through regulations regarding gambling law. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to raise the issue of the conditions for the lotteries of general interest. Anna Wallentheim well lifted them up earlier. Here too, the Riksdag has reason to be self-critical. We forgot about them in connection with the previous re-regulation. With the new gaming law, the technical regulations for certification and licensing became far too burdensome for lotteries and bingo halls. It is now the task of politics to correct this. Civil society and Sweden's rich association life are in many ways dependent on the free means that lotteries make up. And as a moderate, of course, I think it is important that not all funding comes from the public. The gaming market investigation proposes relief for these. I hope that we in Parliament can reach a broad consensus and quickly find a solution in this area. It should not be a political conflict. The same thing, as in the case of licensing and certification, is with the issue of commodity premiums that lotteries have been able to give their loyal subscribers in the past. Now they are prevented from doing so, because it is equated in the gaming law really with bonuses for online gambling. This mistake must also be corrected. I hope that in the future we can have a better consensus on gambling issues and that the government, instead of slipping out of the hands they did to the opposition in the run-up to re-regulation, can ensure that we care for and defend the reform that we have politically spent so much time, energy and energy to achieve.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-909	Madam President, I would like In these times all have thoughts about the pandemic. When you mention the city of Athens, I would guess that many people are thinking about the next trip abroad that might take place sometime. But some of us, especially those who are in the Chamber right now, may also get a picture in the head of the Golden Age of Athens, the time when great thoughts were thought, when art and literature took great leaps and when the construction of society changed. Aristoteles thought new and sorted, and Platon talked with Sokrates. It was a time, one may say, that has characterized much of the history of the West and perhaps all mankind since then. At the same time, many people at the time in Athens did not notice anything of this. Contemporary travelers tell us that many people lived in misery. Only a few people participated in the democratic system and only a few understood what the big ideas were really about. The fact that we now think of the golden age of Athens as we do is a consequence of reality but also of how we presented, told and interpreted reality. From an early age, the image of Athens as a capital of thought and learning was deliberately begun on the part of these active people. It then continued under the Roman Empire and thereafter. That time and place mark our vision today too. There is a reality; a story and a description of reality. Whoever owns the description of reality has a power over how we more than 2,000 years later think about what happened then. What really exists and is real is important for understanding how it is interpreted and told. That is why cultural heritage is so important and difficult to think about. We have a part of the global and human cultural heritage to manage here in Sweden. It has come to us partly because people here have created it, partly from the golden age of Athens via the Roman Empire, Islam, Byzantium, Christian Church, Renaissance and much more, and it thus lives with us as it was then, for example through the alphabet and in many other ways. Our cultural heritage, too, is thus part of what was then, while it has been added to some of the things that we have created here. Our cultural heritage can also be told in different ways. It is no coincidence, Madam President, that Swedish kings have often had people around them who have written their chronicles and told of their great deeds. How we tell our history, which stories about our cultural heritage are highlighted, break through and dominate our perception of times, of things, of thoughts, is sometimes a result of chance but often a well thought-out PR campaign. Madam President, I would like Our Swedish cultural heritage is a result of international and domestic impulses, old traditions and new forms of expression, a desire to preserve and search for new ones. It is experience, knowledge, people-to-people contacts and historical events that have changed our culture and created what we live by today. But it is also the story of this, not only the reality but also the story of what has been. The owner of the story has a great influence on how we work and think today. Our cultural heritage thus bears a common memory but also something to understand from the outside; to grow as a human being through education and to look forward, to stand on the shoulders of giants. There are, of course, different views of cultural heritage. Some want to use it to shape people and the nation. We liberals take the individual perspective and think from a bottom-up perspective, that is to get people to grow in the encounter with outstanding thoughts that other people have thought and to grow in the encounter with things that others have created before us. It is a way to form, develop and grow as a human being. Madam President, I would like There are many motions under discussion in the report, and it is, of course, a motion report. It also says something about commitment to cultural heritage. There are sports about cultural heritage around the country where sportsmen want to highlight things that are important to them in their parts of the country. There are also motions based on the ideological starting points of the various parties. Let me mention two Liberal Members who have motions in the report, who say something important about my party. Robert Hannah, Liberals, wants the Living History Forum to be given the task of supporting municipalities that want to establish so-called tripping stones. It is a way of preserving our memory and by name honouring the victims of Nazism's persecution and policy of extermination. Barbro Westerholm has exercised to strengthen the work on cultural heritage issues related to LGBT history and so on. Liberals also want to see increased commitment and cooperation aimed at protecting the international cultural heritage that is now threatened in many ways by the conflicts around the world. Cultural heritage is sometimes a clear target for those who want to change the story of history. The report also deals with proposals on the Sami cultural heritage. These include repatriation of remains and religious objects. Many of us in this House, and many of us in Parliament, have reason to be self-critical about how these issues have been dealt with in the past. It is now time to get this right and ensure that there is an idea of how responsibility for that story is to be financed. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a reservation in this case. It concerns international cooperation on cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is largely a web of international experience and cooperation between regions and local cultural heritage that has grown together. Some are outside our own country. International cooperation on cultural heritage issues is therefore also important. To create innovative exhibitions, you sometimes need to borrow things from abroad. There is sometimes uncertainty as to who is the owner. Deposits can sometimes be difficult, such as customs requiring some form of deposit. It can be difficult to bring something here because it cannot be guaranteed that it can be sent back. This may seem to be a technical and difficult issue, but it also creates difficulties to tell us how our cultural heritage relates to the outside world. Therefore, the Liberals believe that the government should return with proposals for measures to facilitate. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-926	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I notice words today. Earlier I noticed the word motion report – and how nice I think it is with all the thinking work. Now I am staying for a moment at the word cultural heritage. It's a nice and beautiful word. I think Christer Nylander described the word so well. He began a long time ago with what characterizes a society, what characterizes a history and what characterizes the population. Cultural heritage also means cultural responsibility, taking over a cultural heritage from previous generations, interpreting, managing, preserving, developing for those who come after, for my daughters, for their daughters and sons and beyond. Cultural heritage is material, what we see and touch, can live in and climb in, and it is traditions and cultural and natural environments. These are also ways of thinking in which we have fellowship. It is a great responsibility, and we must take that responsibility. I would like to focus on two things, Madam President, including many of those who manage cultural heritage in the form of museums. Today, at lunchtime, the spring meeting of museums, which has been going on since Tuesday, ended. These were fantastic discussions. I've learned so much these days from listening to lectures about the work of different museums, what happens inside the scenes, so to speak, besides what we visitors see. There is an enormous amount of competence and knowledge, which, unfortunately, for various reasons which we in the Committee on Culture have received reports are under threat. In particular, these are museums which are not large and state-owned but are regional or local, run in foundation form or private. They have suffered particularly badly during the pandemic because of the restrictions on visitors who have thereby affected revenue. We Moderates underline the importance of museums for learning, learning and managing cultural heritage. One example we have highlighted in a motion is the maritime and vehicle history heritage. There's something special about that. Maritima and vehicle history should not be inserted into buildings; they should roll, fly and float. It also requires skills, which need to be transferred between generations. Funding is also needed. These are costly activities, and it is by small means that they are carried out. For a number of years in committee, we have pointed out the importance of extra support, not just good advice, for maritime and automotive museums, mostly driven by high-skilled enthusiasts. I very much hope that the government will accelerate this support before our cultural heritage rots, rusts and decays in that respect. Madam President, I would like The second thing I would like to underline, which we in the Moderates have put forward and which I believe– no, I do not believe; I know – that we feel a great sense of community and also expressed ourselves in the discussion we had with Amnesty Sápmi on Monday, in which several participated, is the section dealing with identification, repatriation and return, I choose to use instead of drawback, of Sami objects in museum collections. That is our duty. You can imagine yourself if someone were to dig up the graves of your parents or other relatives to engage in research — measuring skulls and legs, and so on. It's completely indecent. There is nothing to discuss here, but this work must increase and proceed – of course in a legally secure way, Madam President. It is important to ensure who claims and which of these are returned. But it's a form of decency. It is not enough that we have the guidance that the National Heritage Office – very meritorious – has produced, but, as Mr Nylander mentioned earlier, a national regulatory framework is needed on this. The museums wishing to contribute to return should have support and funding, and it should be national. I would also like to point out in this connection that sometimes when the debate deals with various Sami issues we and they fall into our hands. I would really like to emphasise that a repatriation work, an identification work and a return of both human remains and sacred objects is a collective Swedish responsibility. We are all Swedes, and this is part of our common cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 6 in paragraph 4.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-935	Madam President, I would like The flower time now comes with lust and mirage great. You approach, sweet summer, when grass and crop germinate. With gentle and lively warmth to everything that has been dead, the sun's rays are approaching, and everything is being reborn. Yes, in just over a month's time we will hear schoolchildren in both Sweden and Finland singing about the wealth of Gud's goodness in this iconic hymn, thus passing on a sounding cultural heritage on trodden paths where the same psalm has actually travelled for more than 300 years. Swedish cultural heritage lives and survives even after harsh pandemic times. But it requires care, dedication and a little fucking embrace if the expression is allowed. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, but I only ask for reservation 2 in paragraph 1. Swedish cultural heritage must be protected, nurtured and shown. It is our duty and our joy. It has its own value so that we do not forget who we are and where we come from. It also has a social and economic value for our welfare model. We have inherited it from our ancestors, and we borrow it from our children. It's not for us to rewrite or correct from the contemporary side-sided blind spots. It's not open to melancholy. It's not open to melancholy. It's not open to melancholy. It stands by and by itself. Today, it is more important than for a long time to prevent wrong and unreasonable rewrites of history. Sweden's museums are some of the actors that manage and convey our historical heritage, and the task of museum policy in all respects must be to strive for evidence-based knowledge transfer from the collections in order to avoid future museums becoming platforms for politicisation. The museums have limited resources, and there are cases where the funds are not sufficient to meet the tasks assigned to them. In such situations, it is problematic if too much responsibility for the priorities that need to be made is placed on the museums as it shifts responsibility for decisions due to insufficient resources. At the same time, it is the museums themselves who know their activities best and know where the needs are at their greatest. We believe that the government should therefore clearly present different scenarios with balances and priorities that may need to be made and why. It would provide the museums with guidance on how to act in relation to the assignments to acquire, preserve, convey and exhibit, but also to promote research and research opportunities, and it would give the Riksdag transparent windows in its control power over the government. Madam President, I would like Society is obliged in our joint contract to protect both Swedish majority culture and national minorities' historical, cultural and linguistic variations. For those belonging to a national minority, the right to culture, language and identity is decisive, regardless of whether the individual identifies with the culture of the national minority only, by the culture of the majority population or by both. It is also important to safeguard the individual's freedom to choose their own belongings or belongings. We want the government to investigate the possibility of safeguarding the heritage of national minorities in consultation with the parties concerned. Sweden and Finland have been one for many centuries, and Swedish cultural markers have in some cases a stronger protection in our former eastern part of the country than in our own country – for example the language. In addition, Finnish schoolchildren sing the same melody as the Swedish ones in just a few months' time. The Finnish heritage and its impact on our cultural and agricultural landscape is large in our own country but unknown to many. In several of the Swedish landscapes there are contiguous forest areas that have been strongly characterized by older Finnish culture with farm names, building styles and location names. Add to this the remaining arable land that was broken in the 17th century by cutting down forests and sawdust turned the land into arable and pasture land. These environments are unique. In Finland there are no preserved smoking cottages in the original location, as it does on both sides of the border between Värmland County in Sweden and Hedmark County in Norway. Main settlements and finns are also located in Dalarna County, Gävleborg County and parts of Västernorrland County. The Swedish Democrats want the Government, through the Värmland County Administrative Board, to work to protect the coherent forest Finnish settlement and cultivation environments, which today have little or no protection, and also take the initiative to promote them as World Heritage Sites under the UNESCO World Heritage Convention. Finnskogen in Värmland County with its finns and smoking cottages is the largest contiguous area in the country with this type of settlement and location name. Madam President, I would like Allow me for a moment to sweep over the country from Värmland to Östergötland and attach the needle to the map and draw attention to the ancient sea town of Vadstena, a national destination of rank. The rich cultural heritage shown by Sancta Birgitta Klostermuseum in Vadstena is of great importance not only to Östergötland and Sweden but also to the Nordic countries and the international community. The museum is now run on a voluntary basis by the Birgitta Foundation, but the non-profit association has long been courting regional actors, national authorities and elected representatives to depict the fragile situation of the business and to seek a new principal and sustainable financing. The business finds it difficult to manage financially and is facing a threat of closure, for example because the funds received from sales, grants and donations are not enough. It has been expressed in the media that the association will in the long run not be able to run the museum and manage its rich heritage for the future. The situation is increasingly critical. Given the importance of the site, the environment and the heritage and that it is of national interest, the Swedish Democrats are concerned about the situation. We are now analysing the situation and working actively to make a sustainable solution for the future possible. Madam President, I would like Throughout our country, our common history is portrayed in layers of cultural environments, often of high cultural historical values. Everywhere we meet places and environments that carry human life and personal history, but also historical building methods, color choices and materials with aesthetic sustainability and awareness. Our rich flora of cultural environments is a link to the past and part of our collective memory. However, the Swedish National Heritage Board's report Cultural historical values in plan and construction processes from 2020 shows that many municipalities have no access to antiquarian expertise in the planning and building permits processes. Half of the country's municipalities lack cultural environment programmes. The protection of cultural values in detailed plans and site regulations is weak. At the same time, we know that adequate competence is crucial to ensure that historical chapters and environments are not belittled, distorted, damaged or even demolished and history is thus lost. Legislation has long underlined the responsibility of society, and not least of the public, to care for, preserve and show cultural historical considerations. It is expressed through the Cultural Environment Act, the Road Act, the Railway Act and the Planning and Construction Act, of course. We believe, however, that a concerted approach is needed to deal with current known problems. Part of this is to strengthen the general protection of cultural environments through increases in funding. The second is to stimulate the strengthening of skills in the municipal administration. In addition to this, we believe that the municipality should see how these can be integrated and take greater responsibility for cultural environmental values when it comes to commercial operators. Therefore, we believe that the government should set up an investigation into cultural environment stimulation and sanctions for infringements in sensitive cultural environments. We also want to see national objectives and guidelines that promote cultural planning, strengthen coordination to ensure a holistic approach and start a national review of how to ensure the application of existing legislation and municipal competence. Madam President, I would like The legacy and responsibility are shared. It should be in the walls.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-961	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Centre Party's reservation 7 in the report to be approved. Madam President, I would like In culture and free society we have the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. We can also develop through meetings with the unexpected and have other perspectives on our life and society. The importance of this is also evident now under the coronapndemine, as our cultural heritage has been important places of interest that more people have now had the opportunity to discover since the pandemic has allowed most people to vacation here at home in Sweden. Great commitment and great creativity have been shown to reach out with culture despite the difficult conditions. This is because we people need cultural experiences and need to learn more about the history our cultural heritage conveys. Increased interaction on cultural heritage issues between politics, business and committed enthusiasts can also create increased conditions for jobs as well as for local and regional development, attractiveness, tourism and knowledge development. We must make use of this when society now needs to come back wide after the pandemic. Our cultural heritage then needs to be accessible to everyone. Madam President, I would like to highlight the ecclesiastical cultural heritage here. It is a cultural heritage that is of great importance to our society and which is of importance to all of us. Everyone living and staying in Sweden has the right to participate in this cultural heritage. In the church cultural heritage you can see traces from the history of the district and the country. But this cultural heritage needs to be made more accessible to all. This can be done, among other things, by providing information about the cultural heritage in an accessible way, for example through text in easy-to-read Swedish or in sign language. Digital development can also provide new opportunities to further make the ecclesiastical cultural heritage available, for example. Madam President, I would like The mobile cultural heritage, as several before me have mentioned, is another example of a cultural heritage that involves many people in our country. The mobile cultural heritage is vehicles that have been used and transported people and goods around our country – in short, history carriers from a time when our society became increasingly mobile. Every weekend and almost every everyday evening during the bright season there have been events around our country where the moving cultural heritage has been recognised and not least used. There are many who spend much of their leisure time preserving these treasures, and it is mostly nonprofit forces that renovate cars, boats and airplanes and run museum railways and museums for these jewels. At the same time, this creates jobs and entrepreneurship in many different ways. It can be about sales of spare parts as well as mechanics and workshops with specialist knowledge, but not least about tourist destinations that generate both trade, restaurant visits and hotel overnight stays. These are activities that have had a difficult time during the pandemic. All of this is often created in smaller towns and not least in rural areas. However, Madam President, there are examples of how both political decisions and the interpretation of regulations by the authorities have been and are obstacles and how cultural heritage objects have even been lost because of rules of interpretation, rules and laws. More needs to be done here, and quickly, to facilitate the preservation of our mobile cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like The Sami are one of the indigenous peoples of the world and indeed the only indigenous people in Europe. Sápmi is called the large land area that spreads throughout the northern part of the North Calott. Sápmi as a concept includes both the country of Sápmi and the people of the Sami people. The Sami have a long, coherent historical connection to the area – an area in which they have carried out their ministry and developed their culture, which dates back to the time before the formation of the nation state. The abuses and discrimination to which the Swedish State has historically subjected Sami and other national minorities and which, I must say, are still ongoing on many levels are often unknown to both decision-makers and the general public. However, discussions and questions about this have been held for a long time in Sami society and in Sametinget. The fact that the process of the Truth and Reconciliation Commissions has now finally begun is very welcome and long awaited. Without proper scrutiny where things are highlighted in the light, Sweden cannot break free from outdated and discriminatory notions of Sami and national minorities in general. Another way to now heal the wounds caused by state historical measures is the repatriation of Sami remains. Repatriation is a process of returning objects or remains to their original or rightful locations. It also houses a reconciliation effort that involves settling with a painful past and restoring trust between the one who took and the one who was afflicted. In the 2018 Museum Act, it is clear that museums will participate in repatriation. Also in the international museum cooperation ICOM's regulations and the indigenous convention, it is clear that repatriation will be done together with indigenous peoples and local peoples. In connection with the new Museum Act, the National Board of Antiquities was also tasked with developing guidelines for museums and presented two documents on the matter in 2020: Support in the management of human remains in museum collections and Support for museums in return matters. Madam President, on behalf of the Center Party, we believe that it is now urgent for the state to ensure, as a matter of urgency, the rules and funding for the continued repatriation of Sami remains and cultural objects.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-975	Madam President, I would like My contribution today will be about our racist heritage – also a cultural heritage that needs to be highlighted and recognised. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 14. Racism comes in different forms and takes different forms. It varies depending on context over time and space. Sometimes it is directed towards more specific groups and can therefore take special forms, with its own history and background. Sometimes an undefined one is the target, called an immigrant or a foreigner. Racism is often used to distinguish between different groups and to counter each other in order to create divisions in society and weaken the link between people. This fragmentation and exclusion mean that people who are marginalised are left out and become targets for exploitation as cheap labour or for cuts, impaired welfare and restricted rights. The attacks that are initially directed at some of us spread quickly and easily in a divided society if we do not stick together. We must therefore see how the insecurity of our fellow Member, classmate or neighbour is also our insecurity. Madam President, I would like A disgrace in our history is the long-standing discrimination against Sami people. Unfortunately, it is still the case that knowledge is not very widespread about how the state has acted through centuries. Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity here today to explain the full extent of that oppression, but to give a brief overview. From the last decades of the 19th century, racial biology influenced Swedish Sami politics. Politicians and researchers claimed and sought evidence that Sami were born with certain characteristics that made them inferior to the rest of the population. Public research grants were used to measure and compare the shape of skulls in the Swedish majority population, Sami and Swedish finns. The measurement was made both on living people and by digging up graves. Long skulls were considered higher standing than short skulls, where Sami were counted. 1,300 living Sami were examined and photographed. It was adults and children, with and without clothes. In 1922, the publicly funded Racial Biology Institute was founded in Uppsala, the first in the world. The department had the politicians' mission to maintain high quality of the Swedish population, which meant that race mixture should be avoided. Although the Sami were not directly identified as a group that would be subjected to forced sterilisation, it is nevertheless clear that many Sami were subjected to these abuses, which were carried out from the mid-1930s to the mid-1950s. It was only 70 years ago... not long ago. Madam President, I would like Sweden is committed to following the UN Declaration of Indigenous Peoples. It states that indigenous peoples must have insight into and influence over the management of their own cultural heritage. Despite this, a survey from Linnaeus University from this year shows that Sami are rarely involved in archaeological projects related to their own cultural heritage. The influence is practically insignificant. This often means that Sami feel run over and overlooked, but also that archaeologists may miss out on important cultural historical information. In addition, the study shows that the management of Sami cultural environment care differs between different counties and between different archaeological companies. This in itself is a problem, as it is difficult to know what applies in a particular area. Requirements for the restoration, repatriation of sacred objects and remains, have been raised among the world's indigenous peoples since the 1970s. Repatriation is about the right to the past and your ancestors. It is also about reconciliation between indigenous peoples and states. The Association decided in 2007 to require the full identification of all Sami skeleton material in all government collections, a survey of how museums and institutions have usurped the material and a repatriation of Sami remains and other sacred objects. In this report we have exercised that this issue must be given higher priority. We have also set aside money for that in our budget. We believe that the state must be more active and be more committed to these issues. It cannot be that individual descendants should have to pursue this process against the state on their own. The guides produced a few years ago are good, but more is needed. Madam President, I would like The rights of the Sami have been strengthened in recent decades, but the abuses and discrimination suffered by the Swedish state and which are still ongoing on many levels are often unknown to both decision-makers and the general public. International bodies such as the UN and the Council of Europe point out recurring shortcomings in how Sweden respects Sami rights as indigenous peoples and how discrimination affects Sami life and situation. Civil Rights Defenders has recommended Sweden to set up a Truth Commission. The Equality Ombudsman and the Sameting have also pointed to the need for change and called for measures that dissociate themselves from and break with colonial heritage and discriminatory structures. Sami organisations and representatives have also raised the issue for a long time. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has long been involved in this and believes that a Commission of Truth should be set up. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister for Culture has announced that such a commission will be established by the government and the Sametinget. We also welcome the work that the Sameting has done to anchor a Sami Commission of Truth and that we have now come a further step on the road with the submission of its report to Amanda Lind on Tuesday this week. The idea of a Truth Commission is to compile and describe abuses and wrongs that have taken place by, among other things, allowing individuals who have been affected to tell their story in different ways. According to the Left Party, a commission of truth is necessary for the development of Swedish Sami policy. Madam President, I would like A similar work is proposed when it comes to Sweden's involvement in the slave trade. Sweden's role in the transatlantic slave trade is something that is hardly affected in school books. At universities and colleges the subject is treated sparingly, and there is very little research in this area. However, the issue has begun to be discussed in connection with the extensive protests and demonstrations against racism that we saw around the world last year. This results, among other things, from the fact that the 15 Member States of the Caribbean Community, Caricom, have demanded an apology from Sweden and several other countries for our involvement in the slave trade. The demand comes from a Commission which was set up seven years ago and which calls for compensation for atrocities during slavery. Sweden played a small but active role in the international slave trade. Swedish ships transported enslaved people from the African continent to the Swedish colony of Saint-Barthélemy, which was a thriving West Indian free port for commerce with slaves and other commodities. During this time, Sweden dominated world trade with iron – the metal used to manufacture weapons, chains, chains and tools and was therefore central to the slave economy. Slave auctions were also held on the island, giving tax money to the Swedish Crown. According to Caricom's compensation commission, Sweden and the Swedish royal house profited from slavery. That is why they demand an apology from the Swedish government and the royal family to the peoples of the Caribbean. In a longer report in the newspaper Expressen, the government believes that there has been a dialogue with the Commission and that no formal requirement has been made. The Left Party agrees that Sweden should apologise for its role in the transatlantic slave trade and that it should do so by drawing up a White Paper – a White Paper that helps to highlight the crimes and abuses committed and to increase knowledge of the history of slavery and its significance to racism today. There should be no need for a formal request, but it should be self-evident for the government to address this issue. We also propose, Madam President, that, in order to make Sweden's role and responsibility visible, 9 October – the day on which the last African in Swedish ownership was released in 1847 in the then Swedish colony – should be made a national memorial day in honour of the victims of the Swedish transatlantic slave trade. I apologize for exceeding speaking time.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-997	Madam President, I would like I agree with the reservations of the Christian Democrats and with the special opinion, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 5. The reservation highlights an important area in the cultural heritage sector: the fluid cultural heritage. The Committee on Culture has drawn attention to both the moving and the flying cultural heritage, but this concerns the fluid cultural heritage. Examples of this are the shipping tradition of an ancient history several centuries back in time. But we also have the fishing tradition on the west coast, which involves several hundred years of development of fishing gear, fishing boats and boat structures and a hard toil, often in hard seas on the North Sea or all the way to Iceland and the Shetland Islands. I myself have my roots in this important basic nutrition. We want the question of who is responsible for the fluid cultural heritage to be investigated. Knowledge of its own cultural heritage, material as well as intangible, includes common values, dialects, traditions and popular memories. It gives people security in their identity. It is necessary for us to be able to meet and respect the cultures and traditions of others and is a strong health factor by strengthening the sense of context. This particular context is important for every human being. The famous psychologist Aaron Antonovsky says that the purpose of life in human terms is to experience that you are part of a context and that you have a task. It can also be said to be the tradition we live by. We have been shaped into what we are by the values that shaped previous generations: that mine is mine and yours is yours but that we are at the same time generous towards our fellow human beings, that we respect each other and that we need each other in a functioning community. Democracy is the worst form of government there is, apart from everyone else who has been tried through the ages – as Winston Churchill says. One can wonder where democracy was formed. Anyone who has read his history knows that much of our democratic thinking comes from the Greeks some 400 years before Kristus. Christer Nylander explained very graphic and insightful here what thoughts were formed at the time. But what has made the strongest impression on us in the Western world and shaped us into what we are today is undoubtedly the ecclesiastical cultural heritage. Per Lodenius made that point in his speech. Vetenskapsjournalist Maja Hagerman has portrayed when Sweden became a Christian kingdom in the turn of the Viking Age and Middle Ages:中 Christianity brought with it many things that have become so obvious... as this that one person cannot own or sell another... The church left its mark on society, on things that then came to follow people through centuries and thus shape us as well. ..................................................... The great humanist and philosopher of Social Democracy Alf Ahlberg, once the headmaster of Brunnsvik folk high school, wrote this: ..................................................... Cultural heritage is constantly changing and arises in the encounter between the old and the new. By forming cultural heritage in interaction with the outside world, it also becomes an important tool in the fight against racism and xenophobia. Cultural heritage can contribute to increased growth and more jobs. In the entire cultural heritage sector, 300 000 people are working in the EU and 7.8 million jobs have been created indirectly. Cultural heritage is not only about past and present, but also about the future that we create together and the values that will shape future generations. Madam President, I would like Let me say something about what several have been on here, namely the repatriation of Sami remains and objects, and the views of the Christian Democrats on it. For the uninitiated, it is a matter of returning remains and objects found in museums to the Sami people. The Sami journey through time has not been easy. When I saw the movie Sameblood, I was arrested by several events in the film where it was about discrimination in different forms. Jessica Wetterling described both interesting and in-depth what this was about and gave several examples. I have also had the privilege of participating – as a resident quite far from the context, I have to say – in the Sami Parliament on two occasions. Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, said: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that through their creator they are given certain inviolable rights, among which are life, freedom and the pursuit of happiness. We Christian Democrats believe that the issue of returning Sami remains and objects needs to be resolved. But it is also important that this is done in the right way. There is a new museum team that says that museums will participate in the repatriation. I think I'm going to stay there and just end up with everything pointing out that this is going to be solved. When we hear the various speakers here, we hear that there will be a solution in the future that the Parliament will support. I prophesy about this, I was about to say. These are sensitive and difficult areas, and it is of the utmost importance that it be properly managed in the future.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1012	Madam President, I would like Last Friday I was at the Moderna Museet here in Stockholm and saw the exhibition Giacometti – Face to face. It was the first time in a whole year that I experienced a physical exhibition at a museum. To improve once again in art and aesthetics, cultural heritage and the different forms of expression of culture, and above all to see the reactions of others in the meeting, actually touched me. There are of course many thoughts and feelings that emerge after a year of distance, homework and lack of public and social space and culture. The fact that more and more museums and art galleries can now be opened up again is due to the new Pandemic Act. On 11 March this year, the government decided that museums and art galleries would be subject to the same congestion rules as for restaurants and gyms. Since then, more and more state, regional and municipal museums have opened up, and interest in booking a visit is steadily increasing. Of course, it's not like it used to be. The Pandemine harvests human lives on a daily basis, and safety is of course a top priority. Today you buy a ticket for a specific entrance time and check in yourself by self-scaning on site. You have to follow arrows and floor instructions that tell you how to respect the distances. Hand spirit is available, and staff remind us from time to time that it is important to keep a distance. Madam President, I would like It is not an easy task to open an audience with restrictions and with staff to work closely with visitors. The fact that more and more museums and art galleries have chosen to open is about the realization that the pandemic will last a long time and that a cultural offering is needed even during this time. Peter Skogh, director of the Museum of Science and Technology, has just expressed the importance of keeping the museum activities going in order to give culture a place during a very difficult time. Madam President, I would like We know very well the relationship between culture, democracy, health, well-being and sustainability, at least in this committee. Taking part in culture really deepens our analysis, our education and our emotional understanding and interaction. Coronapandemia has shrunk that field. And even if it is possible to carry out outdoor activities and watch films and comics at home, the need for the physical dimension of art and culture grows. The fact that the museums have now opened breaks the isolation and makes us people feel better mentally. Metaphorically, they create a spiritual space for processing. The more I think about my museum visit the other day, the more I think about how severe restrictions can harm more than protect. Madam President, I would like In this report, the Parliament's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media deals with up to 95 requests for exercise concerning cultural heritage issues from the general period of exercise. These include the conditions for the activities of museums, the cultural heritage of national minorities, cross-sectoral cultural environment work and the protection of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. During the preparation, the committee has received information from the National Antiquarie Office and the Swedish Museums about the location of the museums, the cultural environment and the collections in a broad sense, but also in relation to the coronapandemin. In its latest report, from March this year, the National Heritage Office describes that many museums have an imbalance in their funding in relation to society's claims to the activities. Fixed costs are increasing while there are major revenue challenges, not least due to the pandemic. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Heritage Office to analyse this by 15 June and present proposals on how the agency can be a support in the work of museums to adapt to the changing conditions that the pandemic has brought. The Museums of Sweden and the trade union DIK have also looked at these issues. According to the Swedish Museums survey for 2020, 50 per cent of museums have a worse economic location than in the previous year. 52% report poor opportunities for active community management. But to the question of why it looks like this, the answer is that it is believed that this has been preceded by years of economic erosion with increased costs and reduced revenues. At the same time, 65 percent feel that the principals have a good understanding of the economic situation of museums. 68 per cent feel that the dialogue with politics is good and that political commitment to the issues is steadily growing, not least in the light of the 2015 museum investigation, free admission reform and the new museum law from 2017. That is why it is important, as the report states, that the policy is constantly following up the issues in order to ensure an appropriate museum activity that can contribute to meeting the cultural policy objectives. Madam President, I would like A debate that has taken off during this time has been about the sale of art and cultural objects by museums to get through the pandemic. Some well-known international examples include the sale of art objects at The Royal Opera House and the fact that the Brooklyn Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art have conducted auctions of cultural objects to manage their finances. It is a terrible development of the economic crisis that the pandemic has led to works that are available to the public and in the public sector being sold to private collectors. It makes cultural heritage, art and culture poorer, as well as understanding history and another contemporary. Here in Sweden we can be happy that we have a strongly publicly funded museum business regardless of whether the state, region or municipality is the principal. The museums have stronger public protection and not the same income loss levels. The budget cooperation parties have also guaranteed during this time through crisis support that no Swedish museums will be in a serious financial situation during the pandemic year. But, of course, there will be a need for a review of the museums run by foundations, privately or by our Swedish peoples' movements, which have been particularly affected. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention a few issues which I consider to be of paramount importance for future cultural heritage policy. We will need to make an impression and work on the proposals that the Restart investigation and the National Anti-Varial Office are proposing in this changed situation. The museums are calling for a strategy to increase the digitization of both objects and shows to promote innovation, increase accessibility and reach out to more people, especially museum groups that now seem to have found the museums digitally. The collections need a special effort in order to protect and preserve the objects for the future and the professionalism that exists in this area. In order to increase international and intercultural cooperation and exchange, it is important to have the possibility of borrowing objects between the museums of different countries. Sweden currently lacks a regulatory framework that can guarantee that items borrowed are also returned. Therefore, I welcome the investigation into protection against procedural measures for borrowed cultural goods, which will report on its mission on 30 April. Finally, efforts will have to be made on the cultural debt that has particularly affected children and young people this year. Cooperation between schools and the museum industry needs the support of politics. I do not think that this speech should reinforce the issues that have been raised here very exemplary in terms of minority policy and, above all, the situation of the Sami people. I have done so in previous speeches, but I fully support the reflections and thoughts that have been expressed here. In the light of the above, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1031	Madam President, I would like One issue that many people have touched on here today is the situation of the World Heritage Sites. We have also touched on the fact that much of our cultural heritage can be of international value, but some are also nationally located just like the World Heritage Sites. I am genuinely concerned about the status of many of the world heritage sites that Sweden manages. We have been reached in recent years with high-profile reports on the situation of Birka, Drottningholm and other major world heritage sites. The main problem is that there are no resources, says many of the world heritage sites. Excavation is taking place, and the service as permanent overseer at Birka, for example, has been discontinued long ago and has been contracted for the season. We have seen that Stockholm University cannot afford to do excavations because the rent to the National Property Board is too high. Acidification risks undermining some of what remains in the soil. The County Administrative Board waits with excavations because it feels that better techniques are needed. Other nations' representatives on world heritage issues often believe that Swedish World Heritage sites receive solid state support, but many of the world heritage sites in Sweden feel that there is a lack of resources to collaborate with research and that political will behind the World Heritage Strategy is also lacking. My question to the Social Democrats and Lawen Redar, who may be regarded as representing the dominant government party, is: Why are the government and the Social Democrats so uninterested in taking action to care for the unique world heritage that Sweden actually has responsibility for the future in the international community?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1036	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member raises an incredibly important issue. This is largely about the general resource issue that has been put into cultural heritage and cultural heritage policy. I am not of the opinion expressed by the honourable Member here that there is no interest in world heritage issues and, above all, cultural heritage policy in Sweden. We have developed a whole bill that covered among other things a new museum team that was implemented in 2017. The museums have welcomed this in order to promote professionalism, research and so on. It has taken off and had amazing effects. The resource issue will be on the agenda of politics, I mean, for a very long time to come. Unfortunately, this will affect the skills, collections and museum activities as well as the World Heritage Sites. We will need to analyse both how the coronapndemin has affected the revenues of museums and, from that perspective, also take a major interest in the whole issue of resources in terms of cultural heritage policy. I am of the opinion that much more will be required in future analysis of cultural heritage policy. This is an area that must be put on the political agenda at an even higher level than before.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1040	Madam President, I would like At the same time, the Social Democrats are good at saying no to many reinforcements of funding that would just remedy this situation, that is, the billion-dollar cultural heritage proposed annually by the Swedish Democrats, which would prevent large parts of Swedish cultural heritage from literally crumbling. It is a question of neglecting the list of church antiquarian compensation and rejecting a cultural heritage fund and root and most of the reforms that actually increase funding for cultural heritage. It will be a follow-up question. The fact that there is a strategy on the table is one thing, but what does it mean for the Social Democrats? There are now temporary contributions, for example, to work on the strategy. But it is obvious that it has had no effect. What should be taken into account when the grant runs out? It is believed that the government parties' position is that the municipal and regional level should take increased responsibility for several of the world heritage sites. But I believe that it is a national and international commitment in which Sweden as a state has a great responsibility. I ask again what Mr Redar thinks.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1045	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to see cultural policy as the whole. Indeed, it is not just cultural heritage policy that must enter into budgetary work. There will be a lot more investment in everything from film politics to art, public education and so on. An entire ecosystem of activities will work here, in order for us to understand the cultural heritage and for all the different art forms that tell us further how we can work with culture, in the form of language and its different aesthetic forms of expression. I am of the opinion that the Swedish Democrats attach great importance to the cultural heritage, but cut sharply in all other areas. I would like to see an increased interest in cultural heritage policy, that we are working on resource issues and that we are further analysing what is to be done after the pandemic. It's an incredibly important piece of work. But it must not be at the expense of other cultural areas. Unfortunately, that is what I believe is the cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1047	Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage is our common memory. It helps us, and guides us in, to understand who we are and where we come from. Traces of the past make our history visible. The tracks tell about meetings and influences and how knowledge has walked, reformulated and accumulated. They tell us how languages and cultures, knowledge and techniques have constantly been and are in motion and are constantly evolving. Cultural heritage must be preserved, used and developed. Not least the last point (a) - to be developed - is important. It is all too often forgotten, consciously or unconsciously. But it tells of the very change in being human. Just as our own personal memories can be deceptive, our common memory is in continuous need of interpretations and reinterpretations, in order for us to understand it. An independent interpretation process is therefore important. Cultural heritage should not be used for political purposes. We'll land all too often wrong. We have seen examples of this in history. Accessibility, which calls on everyone to understand and interpret, but also to experience artifacts and ideas from previous generations, is central to the preservation, use and development of cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is our common concern for all of us. It is the collections of our institutions, our common cultural treasures, but also the language and way of life of individuals. It is buildings, environments and traditions, but also many other things that together form the cultural heritage. However, how cultural heritage is more specifically defined should not be a matter for politicians. Cultural heritage is defined by how it is perceived and used by all of us, jointly. To the extent that it needs to be determined and defined, it must be done by the profession and research. The policy should create an organisational framework and preferably finance the cultural heritage institutions, the memory institutions, while the expertise should be responsible for the management and possibly the definition of cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like Since 2017, we have a museum team. It was adopted during the last term of office, with the Green Party in the government and with an environmentalist Minister for Culture. It is the first of its kind in Sweden. I'd like to lift it up. The Museum Act establishes the independence of museums from politics and formalises the principle of arm's length. The Museum Act also strengthens the status of museums as knowledge institutions. All of this is central and important to the Green Party. We have carried out a reform with free admission to our museums. It is scalable and can be expanded to include more museums. It is important that entrance fees do not stand in the way of people being able to take part in our common cultural treasures – the experience, the possibility of valuation and interpretation. Cultural heritage belongs to all of us and should be open, free and accessible to all. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my relatively brief speech by highlighting two approaches from a motion tabled by my party friends, which is also dealt with in this report. It's about the Sami people. Earlier in the debate, we have heard the words of all parties speaking warmly for the return of Sami remains, offerings and other objects. Of course, the Green Party is also behind this. Where there are obstacles to such processes, as it does, they should be reviewed and removed. These are not least economic obstacles. Funding needs to be solved. Resources need to be added. The second is that we need better visibility of Sápmi and the Sami as part of Sweden. The Sami need to be allowed to take much more space in the public space. We are happy and much better able to encourage and encourage, for example, the use of Sami local names and names in public places. To use and develop Sami in such an easy way in Swedish society also helps to preserve. To preserve, use and develop--that's where I started, and that's where I quit. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1057	Madam President, I would like Folkbildning has a long and proud tradition of contributing to education and democracy in our country. The development of our democracy and the opportunity for people to influence their life situation and participate in the development of society are important elements to which peoples' education contributes. In addition, it increases people's education and education levels and increases both interest in and participation in cultural life. Unfortunately, people's education is on several fronts. Rarely has the education of the people been as rewritten as in recent years, however, for completely different reasons than desirable. Headings on subsidy fraud, funding Islamism and other irregularities have hailed over the study associations. After major and persistent criticism that culminated in the grant crimes at Järvafältet, the Folkbildningsrådet launched a special review of the study associations' activities over the last three years. The results of the review were recently published. It showed that at least 1 million hours were misreported, that is, they existed no more than on paper. Thus, study circles reported in several study associations had never taken place. Darker speech is also believed to be very large. A very small part of the activities of the study associations have been reviewed. In one of the related study associations of one of the government parties, only those with more than 720 study hours per year were examined. This means, Madam President, participation of 14 hours a week per participant, every week throughout the year. It is, of course, completely unreasonable since it can hardly be considered a part-time job to participate in study circles. Unfortunately, peoples' education, like many other sections of civil society, has become part of a subsidy industry complex. Increasingly, civil society has become dependent on contributions from the public sector. One can discuss how its freedom and independence are affected by it. For me as a moderate, society is always bigger than the state, and a strong and independent civil society is an important and cohesive kitt that brings people together and sustains our country. That tick must not be torn apart to make hour-hunting, organised crime and deliberate cheating in order to make contributions more important than the activity as such. Madam President, I would like It is therefore so sad when people's education is attacked by organised crime in the form of subsidy fraud. We Moderates have long pointed out the problems of peoples' education, both the lack of control and supervision, and the fact that the current democratic conditions are not sufficient. Let me take an example. The study association Ibn Rushd is perhaps the study association that has been most attentive. It has long been criticized by researchers as well as debaters for not least its organisational links but also personal relations with organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood. For the uninitiated, I can inform you that the Muslim Brotherhood is an Islamic global network that wants to transform the secular state and derive legislation from Sharia. This is something that any person who believes in Western liberal democracy should fear. We know that parallel societies are emerging in Sweden, where simple visas counteract adaptation and integration into Swedish society. It helps to maintain norms and structures that we should simply not accept in our Swedish society. This means that operators receive tax money in the form of grants to establish and maintain. We Moderates have exercised and put forward proposals for committee initiatives here in Parliament to tighten up the conditions for democracy. In addition, we want to take away the Public Education Council's official practice so that control, supervision and grant granting are gathered under an umbrella and managed by an independent state civil society authority. Today, the Riksdag could have had a proposal for an external and independent review on the table to take a position on. We Moderates have been pushing this issue for a long time, and we, together with scientists and debaters in the public debate, have drawn attention to this. In addition, we have put forward proposals in the Committee on Culture. Throughout the period when it has been storming and revelations of cheating and fraud have been hailing at most, it has been dubiously quiet from the left and middle parties. It has been chosen, Madam President, to put its head in the sand. Not until reputable researchers revealed in Dagens Nyheter that up to 60 – 70 percent of the study associations' activities can be outright cheating, did a couple of party representatives who are involved in this debate later come out and said that they thought it would be appropriate to have an external review. Nevertheless, they chose not to support our proposal for a committee initiative for a thorough and independent review. Thanks to the fact that we moderates, together with other actors, have stubbornly refused to release the issue, the Swedish National Audit Office has now chosen on its own initiative to do its own review. I do not think that this examination would have happened if it were not for us to have been very stubborn in drawing attention to the issues in the public debate. I assume that it is this review that the left and middle parties will be hiding behind today. The problem is, none of us know what we're hiding behind. We do not know how extensive the review will be, what parts it will look at or what the timetable for the review will be. It is good that it is done – misunderstand me correctly – but unfortunately it is also a reason for the JÖK parties and the Left not to vote for the thorough and independent scrutiny that the Moderates have demanded in the Committee on Culture. To conclude, Madam President, I regret that a majority of parliamentary parties do not think it is serious enough that hundreds of millions are probably cheated off every year – perhaps it is even up to billions – to do something thorough. However, I would like to give a clear answer here and now to voters as well as civil society and other stakeholders: we Moderates will never accept cheating, aid crime or, for that matter, systems in a subsidy industry complex that bring disgrace and shame to civil society or challenge our Western liberal democracy. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1071	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 from the Swedish Democrats and others. The public education system has the potential to be an important and constructive actor in society. Of course, they are often in practice such an actor in ordinary Swedes' everyday life. This has been the case in history, and this may still be the case. You can make a positive contribution to people's education. It has the potential to strengthen democracy and much more positively. The Swedish democrats clearly see the potential of public education. But for it to reach its full potential and be the constructive force in society that is desirable, the sleeves need to be rolled up properly in order to address the major problems that have become apparent in recent years. Madam President, I would like General courses organised by folk high schools have an important role to play in adult education. This may be a second chance for some people when it comes to reaching upper secondary and higher education qualifications. Over time, the general course has come to dominate the content of folk high schools. When the peoples' education system was reformed in the early 1990s, it was established that general courses would form the basis for the activities of folk high schools and amount to at least 15 per cent of the total state-funded activities. More recently, however, it has been about 40 – 50 percent. The Swedish Democrats would rather see the special courses given greater focus, and we want to see a new goal that general courses should represent about 15 percent of the activities of folk high schools. Folk high schools must not be turned into a kind of reserve compux alongside the regular education system. In that case, the distinctive character of peoples is at risk of being lost, that is to say, what distinguishes them from the ordinary education system. Madam President, I would like The government's policy on education is in many ways problematic. Then I am not only thinking of the laxity that has been shown in stopping state aid to Islamism and the like, or how one has ignored the risk of widespread fraud and fraud in the study associations. The problem is also about how people often think too instrumentally about the education system. For example, money has been earmarked for peoples' education for various integration-like measures. The government, through its policy, is trying to delegate to the peoples' education system and civil society to solve serious societal problems that it itself has caused. What if, instead of throwing them into the laps of civil society, you tackled the problems yourself when you are in a government position? The fact that the government does this, especially given the often hysterically high tone it has against the opposition's view of cultural policy, is remarkable. They are trying to convert people's education into a kind of integration slot. It would, in my view, be more of a threat to people's education and its distinctiveness. Madam President, I would like It is often said that peoples' education can be an important player in strengthening Swedish democracy. This is often the case. The history of Sweden shows that. Unfortunately, however, this has not been so true in recent years. The other day we were also able to participate in the media in how ABF, which is a state-granted study association, deals with what can be regarded as a kind of registration of opinions. In Ockelbo in Gävleborg County they kick out valued employees from a youth farm on the stand when it comes to the media that they voted for, in this case the Swedish Democrats. How it rhymes with equal treatment and the purpose of democracy that exists with peoples' education and the state's support for the same, I think many people in the cottages are asking themselves. At least I do. Madam President, I would like One issue that has gained a great deal of focus during the term of office is state aid to various types of extremists. I am talking not least about the Islamist Association of Study Students Ibn Rushd, which continues to receive millions in state subsidies despite extensive links with the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood. Here, the Swedish Democrats have long been the clear party in this House. The Islamists should not have a single crown of taxpayers' money. In November, the government presented a new investigation to develop sharper democracy conditions for state contributions to civil society. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. But it's very slow, and it's not resolute enough. We Swedish democrats are not convinced that the regulations that will follow from the investigation will be enough to put an end to the contributions to the destructive forces that are getting them today. The investigation that has been set up has time until the end of this year. So it may take us all the way to the next elections before we get a new regulation in place. This is not acceptable in the emergency situation in this area. Therefore, the Government should act urgently to ensure that any kind of temporary regulation is in place until a longer-term one can be introduced as a result of the investigation. But other measures also need to be taken. This is why, among other things, the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Culture have acted to call the Folkbildningsrådet, so that we can get answers to many of these questions. Madam President, I would like It is certainly welcome that more parties than the Swedish Democrats have woken up and taken the initiative in our direction with regard to state aid to extremists. For a long time we were very alone in talking about this issue in this House. But in order for a change to be perceived as genuine and actually having an effect in practice, I think that we need to act consistently. If, as a parliamentary party, you want to put an end to state contributions to Islamists and similar actors and vote against them in this House, you cannot vote for them then when subsidies are to be distributed out in the municipalities and regions. Here I call for more consistent action by several parties in this House, although I naturally welcome the direction that I see many have chosen to take. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say something about the high-profile debate on fraud and fraud among study associations. The Swedish democrats have long seen that there are risks built into the system. That is why we have been exercising for several years in Parliament that a new player, independent of the activities that receive funds, should be given the task of allocating funds to education in order to avoid today's built-in conflict relationship. It is gratifying that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have also supported this in the form of a joint reservation. We have also welcomed and supported the committee initiative of the Moderates in this area. That is well in line with our policy. However, I am amazed at the way in which the other parties think, which sit on their hands and do not take the initiative to get to the bottom of the fraud, fraud and self-examination, and which even in this House today do not support these proposals. Madam President, I would like To sum up: Folkbildning has a great potential as a force for forming the population and teaching it about democratic processes. But at present there is still a long way to go before this potential is achieved. There are threats to peoples' education and its specificity in the form of too instrumental thinking from the government that transforms peoples' education and uses it as a tool for something other than it once came into being. There are also threats in the form of state subsidies that go straight into the pockets of Islamists and other forces that do not want Sweden well. There are also threats to the formation of the population in the form of the naïve structure of the allocation of funds, conflicts of interest, self-reviews and the like. This has made it possible for taxpayers to spend huge amounts of money. We cannot accept that. If we can get to grips with these problems, the situation could be incredibly much better than it is today, and I really hope that will happen.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1088	Madam President, I would like Today I am lending my vote to Vasiliki Tsouplaki, who is unable to take part in today's debate because of illness. It is something I do with joy, because education is an issue that is very close to my heart as an old folk high school teacher. Folkhögskolan is a form of education that we should be very proud of. With its pedagogy and its freer design, it has given many generations a new chance for education and training in adulthood. As stated in the national goal, people's ability to influence their lives is increased and they create commitment to participate in social development. I very much hope that there will continue to be broad support for preserving the special position of folk high school in our educational system. It is needed more than ever, and it also needs to be seen in the draft budgets. There is a concern at the moment in many of the movement-driven folk high schools that the pandemic is digging deep holes in the economy. Especially tough is it for schools that have boarding facilities and usually walk around with the help of conference guests, summer courses and other events. Even before Christmas, the government was informed about the situation, but no specific support was received. It is welcome that there is a pot to strengthen funding per seat now in the spring change budget, but it is too little and too late. During the last parliamentary budget negotiations, the Left Party, together with the government, received 8 000 new seats, and we continue to propose efforts to strengthen the quality of education. In the run-up to this year, we proposed a reinforcement of 160 million to compensate for increased teacher salaries and an increased number of participants with a need for additional support. In our proposal for our amending budget, we propose a specific pandemic aid of 100 million. It is important not to get rid of staff and premises in a situation where more needs to be done in order to offer room for, for example, upper secondary school pupils who have not completed their studies remotely or the unemployed who need new vocational training or need to obtain higher education qualifications. Madam President, I would like The issue of follow-up and peer review raised by several parties in today's debate is to be taken seriously. It is very unfortunate that there are people who make use of the important contribution to peoples' education in order to shoe themselves and thereby also risk damaging public confidence in the whole system. In this context, however, it is important to remind us that the fraud in Stockholm referred to was discovered by the study associations themselves. It took too long, but important lessons have been learned from what has happened. As legislators and contributors, we must ensure that we have good regulations, control systems and clear systems of accountability. But it is always important to strive for the right balance between trust and control. Contributions to ensure the living life of associations, studies and ultimately the strengthening of democracy must not be eaten up by the cost of administering contributions. Several parties are concerned with the question of whether an authority should not take over the role of the Folkbildningsrådet to distribute grants and control the activities. For us in the Left Party it would be a step in the wrong direction. Nor is the responsibility of an authority a guarantee that no one will be able to make use of the system. We believe that it is positive with the system we have where national associations such as Swedish Friluftsliv, Rikssportsförbundet and Folkbildningsrådet can distribute the grant to the member organisations. This ensures that the distribution has support within the movement and that there is a close dialogue about the use of the grants. We are seeing more and more signs that civil society is being called into question. Representatives receive threats and hatred, and the good examples, the fine activities carried out daily by non-profits, rarely get a place in news reports. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to see tougher democracy criteria for our association life and put their hope in the investigation that hopefully will soon come to Parliament in the form of a bill. I mean, we should be careful not to shoot ourselves in the foot. We must not be so afraid that money will end up in the wrong organisation so that we create an overly detailed or politically coloured system. If it is the case that authorities start to register the views of representatives in their systems, monitor what is said and written in social media and check what is expressed on arrangements, we can ultimately damage the democracy we say we want to protect. I am not saying that this is what the report today reveals, but I would nevertheless like to highlight this concern. That is also why we have a motive reservation, number 3, to which I would like to call for approval. It is a sign that we want to see democratic criteria that are clear, more uniform and transparent and that give a great deal of freedom to civil society, rather than saying that they should be tough. There is a need for good transparency in the activities to be funded and for a confident dialogue between authorities and associations. The starting point should be to encourage and support so that it becomes right rather than finding faults and trappings. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to return to the question of the study associations and the detected fraud. I would like to stress that we from the Left Party have full confidence that the Folkbildningsrådet and the study associations have now found a new model that is safer and clearer than the one that existed before. In particular, the music business has received an insight that was really needed. I see that the opportunity has been taken to turn the crisis into an opportunity to improve both the preparatory work and the post-control of study activities. There is also a regulatory framework with a parliamentary decision at the bottom for external auditors to be appointed and assignments for Statskontoret to conduct regular follow-ups. The review that has now also been announced by the Swedish National Audit Office may also provide additional tools to improve procedures. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who make a daily contribution to the education of the people. It is all teachers, circle leaders and participants who share thoughts and knowledge and develop together. It is all other employees who make learning possible and who develop our residential areas. They ensure that we get culture and education in all the countries and that meetings can be held, both digitally as well as with a cup of coffee and a good cake. Folkbildning has meant a lot to the development of our democracy, and hopefully peoples can continue to play that role for at least another hundred years.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1107	Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 4. It is not possible to avoid what has happened in recent years in the field of study in Sweden. Then I am thinking of the amount of cheating and fraud that has occurred and which has given negative publicity to the study associations and the umbrella organisation Folkbildningsrådet. A certain number of people and groups – far from all, but too many – who received grants from study associations have abused that trust. At the same time, the control apparatus has not functioned, creating room for these frauds. The Folkbildningsrådet is a non-profit association with certain official assignments given by the Riksdag and the Government. The Council is governed by its own statutes and 15 members. The members are the study associations in collaboration, Sweden's municipalities and Regions and the interest organisation of the schools of motion, also known as RIO. The Folkbildningsrådet decides on the allocation of money to public education actors and also carries out audits and follow-up of the correct use of funds. So this is something that has not worked satisfactorily with regard to the study associations. Most of the time, study associations have been subjected to fraud involving the same participants in study circles in several study associations at the same time. It has also emerged that eight out of the ten study associations operating in Järva were exposed to fraudulent activity. It is therefore a widespread problem of misuse of tax funds that demonstrates the need for reform of the system. The Folkbildningsrådet has submitted a report on behalf of the government and presented measures to strengthen control and stop cheating and fraud. The study associations have also presented a list of measures for errors and cheating within the study associations. The Swedish National Audit Office has decided to begin a review of the control and follow-up of state aid to study associations. We have expressed from the Christian Democrats that we believe that the measures are still not sufficient. Madam President, I would like Another issue concerns the conditions of democracy in order to receive subsidies. We do not see any fundamental obstacles to the fact that study associations are based on a religious basis. On the contrary, many organisations on a religious basis are an important part of our civil society. However, the state should not fund organisations that challenge Western democracy. Therefore, we believe that the Riksdag should call on the government to tighten up the democratic conditions in the regulation on state grants for the formation of people so that grants cannot be awarded to study associations that counteract democracy and thus do not stand up for democratic values. Madam President, I would like A completely different issue where the Folkbildningsrådet is an important party is folk high schools. When a student chooses to study outside his or her own region, the region in which the student is written has paid for the student to the folk high school where the student is studying. This is called mobility support. Since folk high schools are often small, this support is an important addition for them to be able to get the business going. During the year, a debate has erupted following the departure of certain regions from the practice of mobility support. Without mobility support, some folk high schools are at risk of being hit particularly hard, such as movement schools such as the Christian folk high schools and the people's high schools of the labour movement, as well as those specifically targeted at people with a certain disability. In order to avoid this vulnerability to these folk high schools, I believe that the possibility of transferring the entire funding responsibility for folk high schools to the state should be explored via the Folkbildningsrådet. The educational form and the ability to give people who do not otherwise succeed in the regular education system a way forward and a second chance are important elements for folk high schools. They play a very important role in the Swedish education system. The strong link with civil society makes this form of school extremely important to protect.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1120	Madam President, I would like A while ago I made a visit to a small town in Sweden called Odensvi and then took the opportunity to read a little bit about the history of the place. I read about the bookkeeper Bisterfeldt, who, as early as 1757, provided reading instruction for the children in the village. I read about the landlord who thought that the village needed a real school and made sure it was there. I read about the lecture association started in 1905 by some curious villagers. The idea was that educated people had a better chance of taking responsibility for their own lives but also for others and for the common. That's what it looked like around Sweden. In parallel with the struggle for economic freedom, democracy and the right to vote, initiatives were taken around the country to strengthen education and human spiritual growth. What happened around Sweden then, at the time, is an important reason why Sweden became the country that it became. This is one of the reasons why Sweden grew strong and stayed together and that we got a democracy from knowledgeable people. I think it is important to recall that history, not least in times when peoples are being intensively discussed and questioned in some circles. Madam President, I would like The fact that people's education is discussed and debated extensively is basically a good thing. It is best, of course, whether it is about the power of education for democracy and the development of society and therefore the ability of people to make independent decisions. It is important that peoples' education is recognised for their ability to help people get into Swedish society, break the loneliness of the elderly or make it easier for people with disabilities to take control of their own lives. But now the debate has rather been about something else. It has been about cheating and criminality, and sometimes about anti-democratic forces that may have benefited from support that they should not be allowed to take part in. Instead, this money should go to the patient democratic work that is part of the important heritage and present of peoples' education. That is unfortunate, and it is unacceptable. Public education is best served, Madam President, by being free and voluntary. In order to combat what has now happened and revealed – from crime, cheating and carelessness to possible support for non-democratic forces – one has to think about how that free and voluntary force can be maintained while doing something about it. Tax money should not go to things for which it was not intended. That is why there is an important balance to be struck: how do you maintain voluntary activity and freedom? And what measures should be put in place to maintain and increase trust and be taken when trust is put to the test? It has been said earlier in this debate that those who do not support the reservation have stuck their heads in the sand. But the fact is that we who have done so have instead stuck our heads in the facts and scrutiny and really tried to understand what has happened. I have spent a lot of time – and I know that many members of the committee have done so – trying to understand and get into what has happened, talking to people, finding out sources and trying to understand this fundamentally. It's pretty hard. It is quite difficult to understand what has happened, and it is quite difficult to understand how it could have happened. But perhaps it is even more difficult to understand how to act in this situation. If you do not want to overturn trust and if you do not want to overturn the freedom and the voluntary nature of the system, then you really need to understand the system in order to take the necessary measures. There is probably a need for some precision in this work in the future. I think that the majority of the committee has landed in this way quite reasonable – perhaps not perfect, but quite reasonable. We say that Statskontoret should conduct regular evaluations and follow-ups of public education. I think that's reasonable. It has been included in the debate before that some authority should do so, and now the majority of the committees point out that we believe that Statskontoret should be given the task. Probably we will also soon have an external auditor on the Board of the Folkbildningsrådet. I think that's reasonable. In addition, we urge the government to speed up efforts to implement the important regulatory frameworks to ensure that we get democracy conditions in place so that civil society contributes to democracy. It should not be the case that those who want to oppose democracy use civil society or association life or money that would go to them for their purpose. There it must be speeded up; the government must ensure that the rules are put in place quickly and can be used. I welcome – and I believe that the majority of committees also do – the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office is now conducting an external audit. It's important, and it's good. It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office is doing this. You may say that the Swedish National Audit Office is one of the most external things you can imagine – I don't know if it would be NASA or some Martians who would do it otherwise. The Swedish National Audit Office is the external audit body in which I have great confidence and confidence in that they can carry out such audits. To this should be added the job done by the actors in public education themselves. They are now taking responsibility for this. They want to repair trust, they tighten up procedures, they tighten up the audit and they cooperate more against cheating and crime. They do so both in the field of education itself and with external actors. It's important. Madam President, I would like What has happened is serious. You shouldn't close your eyes to it, and you shouldn't put your head in the sand. You're supposed to put your head in the springs and try to understand it. Cheating must be combated. Anti-democratic forces must be fought. It must be fought with facts and with knowledge. Those of us who like folk education have the greatest responsibility to ensure that this money is used for education and not for other purposes. It should be us who are most cursed that people who should not take part of this money have cheated on them, have used criminal activity to get the money or want to use what would build democracy to destroy it. We must be the most angry that this money ends up in the wrong hands. But when we oppose this, it must be done with precision. You shouldn't use the big sledgehammer anyway. We politicians want to do that; when we see a problem, we use the big sledgehammer. But sometimes the big sledgehammer destroys more than it would destroy. This requires precision in order to maintain trust but, at the same time, to combat what should not be there. Madam President, I would like Of course, I do not exclude that more needs to be done in the future, not least because it is so important and at the same time so difficult to restore and repair trust. We will have to keep track of the issue, but it is important that the committee now takes steps to strengthen control over tax money without undermining the principle of the free and voluntary situation of peoples. Culture and education was an important reason why Sweden became the beautiful country that it is. It would not have happened if people 100 and 150 years ago had not gathered to learn more together in study circles and in other contexts. That's why we stick together, and that's why we're strong. Now we face other major challenges. Pandemia, climate, integration, artificial intelligence and much more redraw our maps. Then, Madam President, I think that the social contract that was once involved in the formation of people may need to be upgraded. And then I think that the education of the people there too has an important mission. Then we have to make sure that people's education works and that the money to go to education is used for education and not for things for which they are not to be used. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1141	Madam President, I would like In over a year Elsa and Gunvor have not been able to meet in the study room and talk about their grandchildren and hang out while they learn to use mobile banking ID. It has been much more difficult for Hassan to learn the Swedish language. And for Sara, who has been part of a theatre group that has made her everyday life more meaningful, the rehearsals have been cancelled. Folkbildning has, like many others, had to adapt its activities. Some parts have had to be set up, and some have had to be reset. There have been online trade union trainings, remote driving exercises, interactive seminars on Facebook and digital association meetings. We have many reasons to be proud of everyone who has struggled to make education and culture accessible to many in these difficult circumstances. Madam President, I would like There will come a time after the pandemic, when we will solve social problems that existed before the pandemic but which have been reinforced during it. Those who have lost their job during the pandemic need access to studies and courses. This is particularly true of many young people, as we see an increase in youth unemployment. Older people who, even before the pandemic, needed support to catch up with digitalisation now need even more support. The involuntary loneliness, which has deepened over the past year, must be countered back. And we need to strengthen trust and a social fabric that has weakened after a time when meetings between people have been a deadly act. The student associations and folk high schools have the tools to meet these challenges. This is why, in the previous year but also this year, the government has strengthened support for peoples' education. In total, population education increased by 240 million in the budget for 2021 compared with the previous year. In addition, in this year's spring change budget, there is an addition of 170 million to the public education bill. It will be done to maintain and expand the capacity of the folk high school. SEK 100 million will be allocated to new training places for the autumn of 2021, and SEK 70 million will go to quality assurance projects for the Folkhögskolan. The target group for the initiatives is, among other things, those born abroad who are unemployed and young people who have not reached the targets of upper secondary education. But, Madam President, peoples' education is also facing their own challenges. A number of cases of fraud and irregularities have created a crisis of confidence in public education. When tax funds for peoples' education are misused, it means that there are those who miss the opportunity to participate in free and voluntary learning. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the committee has supported a position that we want Statskontoret to conduct a regular evaluation and follow-up of public education and that an external audit be set up. It is important that the government now accelerates the process of developing democracy conditions for civil society organisations, which will also include contributions to peoples' education. But we also welcome the study associations' own action plans, the Public Education Council's increased control efforts and, of course, the National Audit Office's review. It is important that the Folkbildningsrådet and the study associations evaluate the current system and that there is a clear action plan in place. State contributions to the education of the people shall be exclusively devoted to activities that fulfil the aims of the state with the grant and that strengthen our common democracy. If there is no doubt about it. Madam President, I would like When the first folk high schools and educational circles were started in the 19th century, the aim was to make knowledge and education accessible to all in a democratic and equal way. The formation would no longer be reserved for a privileged group in society and therefore not for power. With knowledge and education, people were given the opportunity to shape their lives, stand up for their rights and demand part of the power. The formation would create a more equal society. That was how the peoples' movements of the time reasoned, and that was how the formation of the people came to be a central part of the democratisation of Sweden. Folk high schools and study associations are still creating meeting places for people. They offer room for conversation and discussion. Folkbildningen gives more people the chance of education through its unique pedagogy. And through study-driven education, the study associations also provide training in democratic responsibility and leadership. People's education is about building democracy from the bottom up rather than the other way around. People who meet each other, exchange experiences and discuss what is important to them develop through lifelong learning. It is people who will show consideration for others and be good democrats. It is when the talks stop that the problems begin. We need to protect places where conversations and education are taking place. Madam President, I would like There should be a broad consensus in this House on developing peoples' education. All of us who see what peoples' education means in people's lives need to engage us to strengthen both control and the long-term quality development of peoples' education. We Social Democrats want to continue to protect the independence and independence of peoples' education, but at the same time we want to ensure that tax funds are used properly. We want to see more people developing as people and more finding new ways to work. We want to see more people like Elsa, Gunvor and Hassan participate in the activities of public education. With these words, I call for all reservations to be rejected and support the committee's position.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1155	Madam President, I would like After I finished high school in the mid-80s, I had the chance to immerse myself in my great interest – the dance at a folk high school. It's kind of a good time to tell you today when it's dance day. That year was not just an education for me, but it was the start of a training trip. I didn't know then how important that training trip would be to me. As a result of the year at the folk high school, I later in life was able to feed on the dance. This, in turn, led me to work with fantastic young people in upper secondary school and to the fact that today, as a Member of Parliament, I am politically allowed to pursue these very issues: culture, education and special school. This year, the Swedish Parliament celebrates and draws attention to the fact that it was 100 years since women and men were able to participate and vote in general elections on equal terms for the first time. However, we had to wait until the 1991 elections before everyone who reached the age of age had to vote. For it was only in 1989 that the declaration of inadmissibility was abolished in Sweden. And it was only after that, in the 1991 elections, that people with certain mental illnesses and intellectual disabilities got their right to vote – it was only 30 years ago. The fact that everyone has the opportunity to contribute to and shape our society, our common society, should be self-evident in a democracy like ours. Formation and lifelong learning opportunities will then become an important parameter for achieving this. Just as important as it is that the person who has an easy time is able to choose education and develop according to his/her ability and interest, it is that the person with an intellectual disability has the opportunity to develop according to his/her ability and interest. People's education plays a major role here. The study associations have free and accessible study circles, such as the Student Association Adult School My Choice. And folk high schools have a range of different courses and specializations, such as Adapted IT at Mora folkhögskola. However, access for those who have been in special education must be much better on the basis of freedom of choice, regardless of where they live, the background or whether they have a disability. There is still much to be done here. Madam President, I would like It is a question of developing and opening up peoples' education, not of restricting or closing down. We know that contacts with others and education are central to being able to orientate, shape independent perceptions and participate actively in society. Here, peoples' education creates room for reflection and deeper knowledge of our world. Formation broadens our views and makes us freer. At the same time, society is enriched when there are good opportunities for people to come together and learn more about a subject. In this context, adult education contributes with a structure that supports a wide range of educational activities that cannot be replaced by training organised by public or educational enterprises. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants everyone to have the opportunity to participate and participate in the creation of our society and our culture as active citizens of society. This is not just about freedom as a principle for us. It is also about freedom as an opportunity to both for oneself and with others get new perspectives and broaden the world of thought. It is about developing our society together and creating new opportunities. It is also about opportunities for self-realization, which gives individual freedom. We can see that there are obstacles in the systems, including for greater integration into our society. In the Center Party we look to the individual regardless of whether you think the person will be allowed to stay in Sweden or not. We want the individual to be allowed to develop through, among other things, civil society, i.e. peoples' education. It's about education, not just education. This will also allow more people to have access to what education can offer. It facilitates and provides better conditions for integration that benefits both the individual and our society as a whole. Folk education can also give people a second chance at a new start in life. This opportunity has been important since before but is made even more clear during the coronapandemine. It is about the possibility of, for example, taking a course at a folk high school. It can give new strength, inspiration and knowledge that helps to move forward in life. And it can help people who participate only to learn something new because it's fun, to get a break and get recovery and new energy after stress in life. Or they get the opportunity to study upper secondary school skills. The study circle that has been digitally implemented during the pandemic allows you to retain both interests and friends, and it makes it easier to resume contacts and activities after the pandemic. Who knows what life trips will actually take place when people are given the opportunity to learn? Madam President, I would like Free formation exists only in democracies because it constitutes a threat to totalitarian forces. Therefore, it is important for us here in Sweden to safeguard the possibility of free education for everyone. It's a question of freedom. For me, the year at Folkhögskolan was the start of a training trip, which I didn't know at the time how important it would be. Regardless of the background or functional conditions, everyone, like me, should have the opportunity to form themselves on the basis of their own interest and knowledge. Madam President, I would like It is a question of democracy – our common democracy.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1172	Madam President, I would like When I listened to Per Lodenius, the Center Party, my predecessor in the speaker's chair, I realized that it is not possible to overestimate the importance of popular education in Sweden. Every day thousands of people meet in circles, lectures and groups and learn together. They form. It happens throughout the country, in cities and in almost every small place. It's a popular movement with an enormous breadth. Almost everything can be discussed or practiced in a study circle. But at the heart of the business is learning and education, improvement and curiosity. Folkbildning should of course be free from influence and based on voluntaryism. Folkbildning is thus inclusive, and it attracts different groups and attracts participants widely from the folklore. There are many of us who have used people's education in one way or another. We have participated in a study circle, listened to a debate, participated in a debate, held or listened to a lecture or perhaps set aside a longer time for studies at folk high school. The roots of public education go back to the times before the introduction of democracy in Sweden. The connection to the popular movements is clear. But in the form we know folk education today with circles and folk high schools, folk education is relatively similar with Swedish democracy. It is closely linked to the emergence of democracy and the basic democratic ideas, that is, freedom of expression, association and assembly. But it also applies to education, self-realization, how the individual can be strengthened by learning together – to become an independent individual in the collective, the social community. This has followed the journey of peoples' education throughout history and is also expressed for the purposes of peoples' education and state support for peoples' education today. It is about developing democracy, enabling a diversity of people to participate in society and influence their life situation. It is about raising the level of education in society and closing the gap in knowledge. It is about more people getting access to education, both within the framework of education and through peoples' education creating opportunities for further studies – educational trips. Finally, it is a question of broadening interest in culture and increasing participation in cultural life. That is the purpose of the education of the people. Folkbildning creates great positive values, and it must take on a large part of the credit for the Swedish strong democratic tradition. Sweden is at the top of the democracy indices developed at universities around the world. During the 150 years of public education in Sweden, society has changed, perhaps more radically than in any other corresponding time. The target groups for population formation have also changed in part. In the 19th century, the education of the people has initially served as a raising of education in the countryside for the peasants – or rather the peasants' sons – to become good formed Swedes in order to include the industrial workers in the labour force at the turn of the century, as well as the bourgeois layers in the sobriety and free church movement. Today everyone is welcome all over the country. The catalogues of study associations span huge areas, but a group that is important for peoples' education, and for which peoples' education is crucial, are newly arrived. I met a C.I. last night. It's a friend of mine who teaches folk high school. We came to talk about the debate that was to be held today. He testified about how he has experienced that people who have come to Sweden – young and old – have a craving for knowledge about Swedish society, about how democracy works in practice, meeting technology and association activities. How do you do it in Sweden? It is this curiosity that we must meet, the curiosity about Swedish society, how to increase our participation in society and the development of society – one of the state's goals with peoples' education. That is how we build modern society, and that is how we build integration and enable establishment. In the big part: we have a situation of 80 million people fleeing globally today. That's twice as many as just ten years ago. They are on the run from war and poverty. The climate crisis is becoming increasingly acute and acute. Refugee organisations have predicted that 200 million people, in addition to those already in existence, will have to flee only because of the climate over the next three decades. It is a time of migration with enormous challenges. Sweden will be part of the solution. And in the small part: Here in Sweden, education is a central key. Madam President, I would like It has been noted that peoples' education, i.e. study associations, has been the subject of attacks. We know that where there is big money there is also cheating, crime, crime and organised crime. We see similar attacks on our social security systems, against CSN and the student funds. We saw an organized attack on the population of Järva a few years ago. This is nothing to take lightly. It's serious. We need to protect our tax money from cheating and criminality. Tax revenue should go to what it is intended for. We must protect confidence in our social security systems, in peoples' education. It is ultimately a matter of trust in society and the social contract. Initiatives for reviews and briefings have been taken by both the government and the peoples' organizations themselves. The Swedish National Audit Office has also begun an audit. The Folkbildningsrådet submitted a report just under two weeks ago. They have responded to the government's mandate to what measures have been taken and will be taken in the future. I share the committee's view in the report that the Public Education Council's reporting back and package of measures are solid. The government is also currently preparing the question of external auditing of public education. It's something that would be good if it came in. Madam President, I would like There is hardly any doubt that the Green Party is concerned about people's education. We protect, value and trust in the education of the people. Trust is a central and important concept in peoples' education. Against this fundamental attitude, which the Green Party stands for, is a completely opposite view and policy in the field of education. On the contrary, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates want to reduce support for peoples' education. Instead of defending, valuing and trusting the motions submitted by Moderates and Swedish democrats, there is a question and suspicion and even a proposal to close down large sections of the population. That's not how it's supposed to be. In fact, I think it is good that next week, when we take a decision on this matter, the Parliament will vote against those motions and against the whole policy of education. Madam President, I would like I shall now say it correctly: I support the proposal in the report and reject all motions for resolutions.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1191	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's 16 Africa report, which contains some 40 requests for motion from three national meetings. Historically, we can see how early civilizations flourished in Africa, much thanks to a vast network of trade routes that tied people together and enabled economic growth. We can also see that it enabled several of the most advanced societies of the past to take shape. Madam President, I would like It is not only historical but also today that Africa is important. Africa is an extremely important continent, and it becomes no less important over time. On the contrary, there will be an even greater foreign policy commitment to these issues, not least when we see how different actors choose to exploit and buy up natural resources or vital infrastructure on the African continent. There is enormous potential here, but there are also dangers. In particular, the dangers concern unfriendly states and actors who are ruthlessly taking on themselves at the expense of the people who live in Africa in particular. Another danger is the religious and ethnic extremism that has long characterized several African countries, thus fueled, and created wars, internal frictions and misery. On the African continent, we find some of the world's most brutal Islamic terrorist organizations: the Islamic State, Boko Haram and Al-Resistance, but also groups like Lord It should be a priority to assist African countries in the fight against this form of extremism and terror. Various forms of Western support for vulnerable minorities, perhaps mainly secular and Christian, are in many cases crucial for the survival of these groups at all in certain areas. Madam President, I would like There are several ways for Sweden, little Sweden, to help to get a positive development that benefits not only people in other countries but also us. If you don't mind there, you'll be fine here. And it's not just about money. Peace, good relations and positive economic development can be created through structural changes and by enabling good conditions. This is something we should all strive for. One area that we Swedish democrats repeatedly highlight is the situation in the Horn of Africa. Somalia has long been characterised by conflict between different groups. At the same time, Somalia's public administration as a result of shady partners and widespread corruption is far from a functioning partner, which of course makes development work considerably difficult. Nor can we say that the situation has improved very much in recent years. However, there is a clear point of light in this context, and that is, of course, Somaliland. Somaliland is located in one of the world's most violent regions but has nevertheless been characterised by peace and positive development – although it has not been recognised as a country by the international community, which of course makes it difficult. It meets all the requirements to be recognised as an independent country and has both well-functioning institutions and a well-functioning democracy – and it only gets better. Somaliland could definitely serve as an example for other regions around the world that want more autonomy. Thanks to the peaceful situation in Somaliland, there are also opportunities to make administrative work in Somalia more efficient and to move administration closer to those affected. It is no wonder that the Swedish Embassy working with Somalia and Somaliland today is located in Kenya. Given the security situation, it is difficult to work in Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia. But we know that Hargeysa, the capital of Somaliland, is safe. There, some operators working in Mogadishu today would not have to spend more than 50% of their budget on security, as is now the case. That won't be necessary. If we place diplomats in Hargeysa, we will get close to Somalia and can promote positive development in the area. Hargeysa is characterised by relatively good communications, not least because Somaliland is regionally leading in areas such as telecommunications and mobile money. Furthermore, a move would help to break the diplomatic isolation that we are seeing today, which is damaging the development of this region and making new investments impossible. With the establishment of an embassy in Somaliland, which is also responsible for Somalia, we are strengthening the country's legitimacy while allowing for new investments. The establishment of networks and increased cooperation between Swedish authorities and their counterparts in Somaliland would also strengthen the conditions for growth, stability and positive development throughout this region. Madam President, I would like We in Sweden should take our responsibility, and here we have a positive example. Provided that Somaliland also presents religious freedom and enables people to have what faith they want, Sweden should recognise Somaliland as an independent state. Finally, Madam President, peace, good relations and positive economic development also benefit Sweden. I've said that before, and I'll tell you again. It is also one of the strongest reasons why we must look to Africa. For this reason, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6, but I naturally support the other SD reservations in the report as well.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1210	President. - Thank you very much. Africa is a rapidly changing continent, but development and economic growth are far from clear. In Africa there are about 1 billion people living in over 50 countries, and each country has its own history and unique situation. An experience that characterises the entire continent is colonial history, when imperialist European states fought to colonize Africa. Today colonialism of that time has been replaced in many ways by neo-colonialism. Africa is the world's richest continent in terms of natural resources, while the people living there belong to the poorest in the world. The reason for this is that power and control of natural resources remain beyond Africa's borders. Great powers and international companies are still interfering in the affairs of African countries, and this has been going on ever since colonialism officially disappeared. The fact that countries do not control their own resources makes democratic development difficult, and this must change. In addition, there must be a requirement for companies to have decent working conditions and pay decent wages, in accordance with environmental and human rights due diligence, and for the countries of the world to introduce country-by-country reporting so that taxes remain in the countries where they belong and can contribute to welfare building. Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia and Djibouti on the Horn of Africa are also affected by colonial history. Add authoritarian, violent rulers, prolonged wars and famines caused by extreme drought. Despite some democratic gleams, human rights violations are taking place in all countries. Wars and conflicts have also contributed to governments failing to meet the population's needs for health care, education, housing or reasonable living standards. A clear majority of the people on the Horn of Africa live in poverty. Freedom of expression is severely limited. We in Sweden know very well the journalist Dawit Isaak, who has been imprisoned in Eritrea for almost 20 years without access to a fair trial, his own lawyer or medical care. Nor has he been allowed to see his family or to receive consular support. It is good that we in Parliament announced to the government that an independent inquiry into what the government has done in the case should be set up. It is a way of showing the Eritrean regime that we in no way accept its actions with regard to Dawit Isaak. Madam President, I would like Violence and harassment against LGBTI people are common. In the Horn of Africa homosexuality is prohibited in all countries. Somalia is one of six countries in the world where LGBTI people can be sentenced to death. Women and children are hardest hit by widespread poverty and authoritarian patriarchal rule. Discrimination and marginalisation on the grounds of gender are still very common, as are men's violence against women and girls. Despite efforts to protect girls and women, rape and other sexual abuse are widespread. Female genital mutilation is still common, although some progress has been made. The Pandemine has reinforced this serious situation in the Horn of Africa, so the rich world must ensure that the whole world is vaccinated. Many people provide money for Covax, which is the organisation that will ensure that poor countries receive both vaccines and support for distribution and vaccination. Unfortunately, this is not enough because the production of vaccines is too small and the price is too high. Therefore, patents must be lifted during the pandemic. Only then will we get up production and also get a lower price per dose. Madam President, I would like Even before Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy received the Nobel Peace Prize, the country faced a conflict which then exploded and increased human suffering and created instability throughout the region. When the Ethiopian Government postponed the planned elections to be held in August to September 2020, the Tigray State Government decided to proceed with local elections. There is now a civil war in the Tigray area of northern Ethiopia. Some 2,000 people have been identified after being killed in massacres in Tigray. Violence against civilians in the area has reached terrible levels, and how many have actually died nobody knows. The medical aid organisation Doctors Without Borders have previously reported that over 100 health clinics have been vandalised and destroyed. In addition to this, sexual violence is used as a weapon. Women and girls in Tigray testify to terrible abuse. Amnesty International and Civil Rights Defenders have reported an explosion of sexual violence. The Ethiopian government has argued that the military operation is strictly directed against the Tigrean People's Liberation Front. But what is happening is not only fighting between armies, militias and paramilitary groups, but also including attacks on the civilian population where sexual violence is used as a weapon. Given that Abiy has received the Nobel Peace Prize and Ethiopia has long been a recipient of Swedish aid, Sweden has an important role to play in paying attention to the terrible sexual violence that must be broken. Madam President, I would like Djibouti consists mostly of desert and almost completely lacks natural resources and arable land. The country is heavily dependent on aid. Revenues from the port of the capital are among the most important for the country's economy. It is not just trade and business that is attracted to Djibouti thanks to the strategic situation. Nowhere else is there as much military presence from other countries as in Djibouti. France, the United States, Japan, Italy and China have military bases in the country. This not only contributes to increased tension between the military major powers but also to the militarisation of the Horn of Africa. It is important to note the consequences of the high foreign military presence in the country for the militarisation of the rest of the continent. Sweden should therefore promote a reduction in the militarisation of the Horn of Africa. Madam President, I would now like to endorse reservation number 3. Today I have focused on the legacy of colonialism and how we could break that legacy, and I have chosen to lift certain parts of the Horn of Africa. More is available in Left Party movements on North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa and the Horn of Africa. As I said at the outset, Africa is a continent with over 50 countries and over 1 billion inhabitants. There is much to say about Africa and the rapid change that is taking place there – about people's needs, dreams and potential. For the Left Party, democracy and human rights are not negotiable. We defend the UN Declaration of Human Rights, which highlights, among other things, freedom of assembly, freedom of organisation, freedom of religion, the right to strike, freedom of expression and public, free and secret elections as essential elements of a democratic society. Equal emphasis is placed on social progress and improved living conditions. This means that the right to work, education, housing, health care, care and culture is essential for a humane life and a democratic society. It is only when all people have the opportunity to decide over their own lives that real democracy can be achieved.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1229	Madam President, I would like This year it is 60 years since the death of UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjöld in a plane crash on the way to a meeting with President Tshombe in the breakaway Republic of Katanga in the newly independent Congo. There was a regular war going on. Congo was reluctant to miss out on the mineralized Katanga. The meeting was to be held just south of the border, in Nordrhodesia, which was still a British colony. The crash in Ndola, where nine Swedes and another handful of people lost their lives, took place in the swell of the decolonisation process that was going on in Africa. Hammarskjöld interpreted the UN Charter as supporting the right of the peoples of the countries to self-determination. It goes without saying that there was great resistance among the old colonial powers. Many in this House are well-oriented about the colonial history of Congo and the predatory drive of Belgian King Leopold. In the 19th century, the hunt for ivory and rubber exposed locals to slave labor, beatings, disgusting mutilations and burned - down villages. The Congo's population is estimated to have halved during the period in question. It is worth noting that it was a Swedish Baptist missionary, Edvard V. Sjöblom, who sounded the alarm about the abuse, aroused the wrath of world opinion and forced changes. In Dag Hammarskjöld's time as UN Secretary General in the 1950s and early 1960s, the focus of the various interests was primarily on copper and uranium deposits in Katanga. Today it is minerals like cobalt and various earth metals that we need for our tablets, but also gold and diamonds. In the tracks people, large and small, are enslaved and women are subjected to cruelly systematic sexual violence. Madam President, I would like It was an important symbolic act that the Nobel Peace Prize the other year was awarded to Dr Denis Mukwege, who, in the midst of that environment at the risk of her own life, is repairing women who have had their genitals destroyed by the abuse. But why is he considered so dangerous that he has been subjected to multiple attempted murder? Well, he points to the mechanisms behind the violence – the profit interests behind the mining, corruption and cynicism of those in power, but also of us, who turn a blind eye to the consequences of our materialistic needs. As we can now blacklist diamonds whose origins can be traced to conflict areas, we should highlight more clearly the trade with other conflict minerals that are extracted and commercialised without respect for human dignity, trade union rights or respect for nature and the environment. Here Sweden needs to be a pioneer country. But, Madam President, why am I talking so much about Congo when the motions discussed in today's report mainly concern other parts of Africa? Joseph Conrad described Congo as Africa's black heart. Much of Congo's history may be a symbol of other parts of the continent, but definitely without lime paper, because oppression may have taken different forms during various colonial powers and the decolonisation process as well. In postcolonial times, countries have also developed differently. I myself am more at home in East Africa with Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania after working four years in Tanzania – I have still daily contacts there – studied Swahili in Kenya and made several visits to Vimmerby's town of Mukono in Uganda. Madam President, I would like In many African countries, the development of democracy has been, to say the least, one step forward, two steps backwards and then one small step forward again. There are those who believe that Sweden should therefore withdraw aid to countries where human rights such as freedom of expression, assembly and journalistic freedom are violated and where women's sexual and reproductive health is far down the agenda. However, the Christian Democrats disagree. If a government restricts human rights and freedoms, we should not abandon the country's inhabitants. This could mean, for example, the collapse of basic health care and education structures. It hits the little man harder than the powers. On the contrary, there is all the more reason to remain but to operate more through and strengthen civil society. By helping to educate churches, organisations and trade unions in democratic work, we can support development in the right direction, and more are equipped to take their place when the democratic situation improves. Pending that, we should make greater use of aid to put pressure on countries where developments are going in the wrong direction. We support the principle of more for more. Although aid should not be withdrawn, Sweden must be clear in the dialogue. We should also, as Professor Rothstein has said, support the nations in anti-corruption structures, as independent audit authorities and so on. In addition, it is far more successful and cost-effective to strengthen women's rights through local church leaders as PMU Interlife through Dr Mukwege and his associates in the Democratic Republic of Congo. They're in place for a long time. They have a trust and authority in society, compared to a state organization, which comes in without any direct contact with the local community and just as quickly leaves the area again. Madam President, I would like In a debate on Africa, it is also necessary to mention the ongoing crisis in Tigray. The reports from there cannot be overlooked, with large numbers of refugees with people who have lost everything in flight from senseless violence and horrendous sexual abuse of women and girls. In this situation, diplomacy is needed to resolve the conflict but also major humanitarian aid efforts. Madam President, I would like On large parts of the African continent, violent battles are taking place against Islamic terrorist organisations and rebel groups. The Islamic State, Al-Qaida, Boko Haram and Al-Shabab are all active in Africa, and in many cases they are a combination of ethnic and religious conflicts. In addition to Egypt and Mali, conflicts are taking place in Niger, Burkina Faso, Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon and Somalia, but also in Mozambique, as we have seen recently. In the conflicts, the extreme persecution of Christians has increased. Nigeria, according to Open Doors and Global Watch, is the country where it is most dangerous to be a Christian. Al-Shabab has also made several bloody raids into Kenyan territory, including the other year in a boarding school where all students who did not renounce their Christian faith were executed. An al-Shabab cell was planted in Tanzania a few years ago and made attacks on police and journalists to destabilise the regime but was stopped by the Tanzanian military. The Christian Democrats believe that the EU should support African countries in the fight against extremism and terror both through its aid work and its military efforts. The extreme persecution of Christians and armed conflicts and the breakdown in Libya show that future EU military intervention must include a long-term roadmap. The bloody civil wars that have been going on in Libya since 2014 must be brought to an end, and the EU's support with a focus on the fight against terrorism, migration and democratic development is absolutely crucial. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation 6 on religious extremism.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1247	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 16, which focuses on West Africa, South Africa and the Horn of Africa. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Africa is an extremely multifaceted continent with 55 countries and over 1 billion inhabitants. It is impossible in a debate to cover everything there is. I shall therefore focus on the current situation in the Horn of Africa. When Prime Minister Ahmed Abiy came to power in 2018, it was at a time when the country was facing an extremely difficult situation. During the nearly three decades of government of the EPRPDF, there were widespread violations of human rights. Large parts of the opposition were in exile, in Ogaden there were massacres and there were disturbances between the amhara and oromo, the largest ethnic groups. In addition, freedom of the press was one of the worst in the world and freedom of expression as well. Therefore, many in Ethiopia and the world were pleasantly surprised when the Prime Minister apologized for the abuses that had taken place and promised that the country would take a democratic path. Opposition parties in exile were welcomed home again, thousands of politicians and journalists were released from prison and reconciliation and truth commissions were appointed. But the process has always been fragile, and after Covid broke out in the world, the government of Ethiopia chose to postpone the elections to be held in 2020 until June this year. This contributed to increasing suspicion between the opposition and the government. Moreover, the opposition has accused the government of not being serious in the national dialogue that was established. One should know that EPRPDF was a coalition of many ethnically based parties, of which the leader was the TPLF that comes from the Tigray region. They decided to hold their own elections in the autumn of 2020 in violation of the federal government's decision. This helped to further increase tensions in the country. Finally, the parties ended up in a situation where TPLF did not recognise the government because it was not elected and where the government did not recognise the TPLF for holding illegitimate elections. Shortly thereafter, on November 4, in the shadow of the presidential elections in the United States, the armed conflict broke out in Tigray. The war in Tigray, as other Members have already mentioned, has had devastating effects and has not yet reached a peaceful end. The central government introduced strict censorship when the military invasion began, but credible reports from many different quarters have come about massacres, extrajudicial executions, ethnic cleansing and sexual violence in the West Tigray and the destruction of hospitals, health clinics and other important institutions. Tens of thousands of people are on the run. Some have made it to Sudan, others are in camps in West Tigray. Now, too, more and more difficulties are being reported in producing food for the vulnerable. Agriculture, which was already badly hit in the past, has collapsed and is now threatening a famine. The picture is also that Eritrean troops invaded Tigray in connection with the invasion. The fact that this was done in agreement with the Ethiopian central government has hardly facilitated the necessary peace work. The war crimes that have taken place in relation to extrajudicial executions, looting, sexual violence, ethnic cleansing and so on must be held responsible for. It is therefore welcome that Ethiopia has said that those who committed such crimes will be prosecuted. Of course, we want Eritrea to promise the same. Tensions are also found in other parts of Ethiopia, some with long roots. The situation in Oromia, the country's largest province, has not received international attention, but it is clear that the police progress of the regime has been very brutal. Parties have been oppressed and leading politicians imprisoned in different parts of the country. The trials against them have been delayed or postponed time and time again. It is important that these prisoners receive fair trials in which prosecutions are tried and that guarantees are created that human rights are respected in the future. Recently, ethnic Amhars in the Wollega region were reported to have suffered a massacre involving many victims. Last year, our Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, expressed concern about attacks on Christian Orthodox. There has also been evidence of serious abuse in neighbouring areas. These reports seem to confirm that tensions between the different national groups have become more and more severe. The world must demand an immediate and total cease-fire in Tigray. This also requires the effective cessation of Eritrean involvement in Tigray, as has now been promised. This should be done under international supervision. The foundations must be laid for genuine and sustainable peace. Nothing indicates that this will happen without the active support of the United Nations, supported by other international institutions. The outside world also has a responsibility to ensure that justice is done for the many Ethiopians who have been severely affected by violence and oppression. The massacres committed in various parts of Ethiopia, often with ethnic connotations, should be investigated by independent international institutions. The truth has to come out. Of course, demanding responsibility for what has happened and at the same time building peace is a huge challenge. This is not least why Sweden's support is so important. We also advocate the resumption of national dialogue on a genuine basis. As I mentioned earlier, Sweden, together with the EU, is calling for Eritrea to leave Tigray. As regards the situation in Eritrea, moreover, the country is still a one-party state without freedom of expression and functioning legal systems. There are serious violations of human rights. In Eritrea, the Swedish-eritrean journalist Dawit Isaak has been imprisoned for almost 20 years. He was imprisoned together with other journalists and opponents. Sweden must be allowed access to him in accordance with § 36 of the Vienna Convention, and we want, of course, together, all in this Parliament in this country, that he should be released immediately. In committee, we agree that Sweden, as well as individual countries, as well as within the EU and the UN, should support democratic development, strengthen respect for human rights and contribute to the construction of a legal society in Eritrea. I would like to end by mentioning one of the most important thematic issues for Africa's development, namely the fight against corruption. I am pleased that our committee and Parliament take this issue very seriously. There is a genuine commitment in all parties to overcome this huge obstacle to development across Africa. Without good governance, it becomes more difficult to build institutions, develop democracy and combat poverty. As Professor Bo Rothstein said in his draft for the committee, the absence of a social contract and a lack of quality in public administration are a large part of the declaration. Corruption is a huge problem across Africa, but there are exceptions such as Botswana. There are clear democratic institutions and accountability of politicians in elections. Moreover, the politicians in Botswana have not borne the legacy of corruption. This means that developments in Botswana have been good based on both MR and growth. Swedish development cooperation and dialogue with African countries should always have a clear focus on building a functioning, democratic, free and open society. In such a society, corruption must always be combated. I have now mentioned some parts of the report. I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their constructive work and genuine commitment to this multifaceted continent.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1270	Madam President, I would like Africa is a large continent that cannot really be described as an Africa. Africa consists of 55 individual countries with different conditions, which is why we have chosen to highlight our views in a separate opinion. At the same time, it is important to describe how the pandemic has hit this particular continent particularly hard. In just over a week, the world was shut down, with devastating consequences for many millions of people in Africa. To give a telling example, we could see how a large part of Ethiopia's revenue disappeared completely because the exports of flowers and vegetables, for example, died completely with the closures. As a result, many lost their jobs, their income, and thus many of their freedoms. Major advances in global health have been made in recent decades, but in the wake of the pandemic many of these advances are being challenged. For example, vital vaccination programs are put on hold when the health care system puts all the effort on covid-19. This is very worrying, and it is important to get vaccination programmes back on track quickly so that new health crises do not occur. While we can state that it is important for covid-19 vaccines to arrive, it is important to make it clear that it is the economic effects that hit the most vulnerable in Africa. For many, staying at home is not an option if you are fortunate enough to keep your job. Many live from day to day and are unable to avoid infection by not leaving home. It is alarming that it is the economic downturn that is most worrying and has the greatest consequences. Madam President, I would like Increased pandemic poverty risks leading to serious consequences. For example, we see an increase in the number of child marriages when families simply cannot afford to support their children anymore. The UN estimates that approximately 13 million girls will be married away between 2020 and 2030 as a direct consequence of covid-19. It is important, I think, to be humbled by how much luck matters in the design of one's life. I was lucky to be born in the United States and grow up in Sweden. There are two countries where my value as a human has never been questioned and where my parents have never had to face the decision to keep me or have food on the table. I have been better off than most girls and women in the world, which, among other things, has given me the opportunity to stand and talk about this here today. I think it's an obligation. More needs to be done to guarantee girls' and women's rights, and I am worried about the huge impact of the pandemic on the situation of women worldwide. Only earlier today we were informed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that it is women who get the most difficult in the wake of the pandemic. In the western and central parts of Africa, the highest proportion of girls were married away, about four out of ten. Over the last ten years, however, we have seen successes in this area. Among other things, the number of child marriages has decreased by one third in Ethiopia. But because of the pandemic, progress is now going in the wrong direction. We can also see an increase in gender-related violence, an increase in genital mutilation and a decrease in access to contraception. Uganda and South Sudan report an increase in domestic violence against women, and in Zimbabwe gender-related violence has increased by 100 percent. Madam President, I would like Economic pressure leads to desperate survival measures such as prostitution, child labour or child marriage. Women's bodies turn into commodities. It is therefore clear to me that the priority must be to get the economy back on track. Increased growth is the way out of poverty and oppression with positive consequences at all stages. We have seen this over the last 22 years, when extreme poverty has gradually decreased. Unfortunately, this development halted in 2020, and extreme poverty increased again for the first time in 22 years. The World Bank has estimated that around 150 million people worldwide may fall below the poverty line. In Africa, there is a risk that the number of people in extreme poverty will increase by 40 million in the coming years. It is totally unsustainable and a development that does not stop with the pandemic ending. It is therefore more important than ever that the focus on aid policy is higher. The richest countries in the world have a responsibility to assist the world's poorest countries with resources and knowledge, but this must be characterised by a strong focus on results that permeates all stages. It is not aid that drives development, but economic growth that is the most important force for sustainable prosperity. And growth is driven by people who realize their dreams and who have the opportunity to build a better life and thereby help others. It is individuals who, with their dreams and ideas, make the world better. Africa faces enormous challenges for many years to come, and that is precisely why we must take greater responsibility for the aid that Sweden stands for. At a time when there is talk of lost years or even decades, Swedish aid must make a difference, and if it does not, we must dare to reconsider. Research shows that economic growth is to a very small extent the merit of aid. Therefore, measures to promote economic growth, international trade and the improvement of the business environment are crucial to achieving the aid policy's goal of eradicating poverty and oppression. Madam President, I would like No Swedish tax revenue should disappear in corruption or end up in the pockets of undemocratic leaders who do not respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy or human rights. To ensure that Swedish aid actually leads to results and to ensure that Swedish aid does not disappear in corruption, an increase in ambition is needed in terms of control and monitoring of the aid. It is in Sweden's, Swedish taxpayers' and recipient countries' interest that no Swedish aid crowns are lost in corruption. Crisises commit themselves to questioning old structures and truths. The objective of development aid must be that one day it will not be necessary. It may sound harsh, but to me it means the exact opposite, because basically it has to be about the way in which aid is most useful. If you don't have it in your eyes, it's very easy to tread the wrong way. The objective of aid policy shall be to eradicate poverty and oppression. However, working for this without a vision that one day aid will not be needed is dishonest. To wish for peace on earth without actively working for it is to just dream. Madam President, I would like I may be young and perhaps a little naive, but the vision of a better world I think most of us share. Me and the Moderates want us to take the step and pronounce what we one day hope to achieve with Sweden's commitment to the world.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1288	Madam President, I would like We have all been affected by the pandemic, and many of us have lost one or more loved ones, lost our job or seen our life's work go bankrupt. Children and young people are mentally ill from not being allowed to go to school and meet their friends as usual. This is even more true of people in poor countries. Many in Africa have lost their income opportunities, migrant workers can no longer send home money to their families, and millions of children cannot go to school. Isolation has led to increased male violence, including sexual violence, against women. More girls are being married and maimed as poverty increases. More and more journalists and human rights activists have been imprisoned. This was highlighted by Helena Antoni in her speech. In view of these developments, we in the Left Party have budgeted for an extra Corona aid of 1 billion to help Africa, among other things, get back on track. The Moderates have chosen a completely different line. In the midst of a pandemic, they have chosen to reduce aid to 0.7% of GDP. Nearly SEK 16 billion in reduction will, according to Moderate trolleritrick, provide more and better assistance. If I were to take a car from Bishopsgården to Stockholm, I had to fill it up for 500 SEK. I would of course rather add 350 bucks, but then I would only come to Norrköping – even if it would be nice to visit the Work Museum there. Swedish aid is valued by OECD-Dac as top-notch in the world. My question to Helena Antoni is what is to be removed from the aid. Is that the support for LGBTI activists in Africa? Is that the aid for maternal health care? Or is it support for women who are victims of sexual violence in the Horn of Africa? Is it children's education that should be cut back on? What, Helena Antoni, is it to be taken from the world's most poor and vulnerable?
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1295	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Posio. Let me start by saying a few words about my commitment to the issues. I think it unites me and the honourable Member. What I said in my speech can only be interpreted as being really passionate about these issues. So does my party. It's more about how to attack it. The Moderates see that we also have major problems here in Sweden. And politics is about prioritising. It is not about taking part of the aid and moving it elsewhere; it is about priorities, about where we want to put the money. We see that there is a big gap in Swedish development policy that is not about control and follow-up. It would be possible to do much better work there.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1298	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Antoni, for the attempt to dupe those who listen to the debate, for the attempt to get to Stockholm without refueling the car enough! As I said, politics is about prioritising. I prioritise an equal, equal world on an ecological basis that can be lived on even for future generations. That is why there is a need, among other things, for strong solidarity aid. The Moderates give priority to tax cuts for already well-established people, who will also have a contribution to get the pool cleaned and the Armanic shirt washed and ironed. So in order to give more to these people who already have much, the Moderates choose to take from the world's poorest. Let me remind you that the world's 22 richest men own more than all women in Africa do, as if these 22 men worked more than all these women. The needs in Africa are so urgent that aid is not enough, but more needs to be done. It is still multinational companies that profit from Africa's natural resources, while people are unscrupulously exploited in mines, for example. H uman rights and e nvironmental due diligence is a tool to ensure that companies offer decent working conditions and wages. That if anything were to take people out of poverty. I wonder how Helena Antoni feels about that. Another problem for the countries of Africa is that the multinationals are running away from taxes. It disappears more in tax evasion than in aid. It is taxes that are needed to build up a wealth that would also benefit the multinationals. A strong welfare provides a well-trained and healthy population that can develop companies to become even more sustainable. This is not a finding, but research shows that equal societies lead to good social development in all arenas. There is a tool to tackle tax evasion, and it is called country-by-country reporting. I wonder how Helena Antoni feels about that, Madam President.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1304	Madam President, I would like As far as tax evasion is concerned, I believe that Yasmine Posio and I agree. The same applies to corruption in general. No Swedish tax revenue should be lost through corruption. As a former Member raised the speaker's seat, I think we all agree on that. Tax money should not end up in the pockets of undemocratic leaders who do not respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy or human rights. I believe that it is in the interests of everyone, both Swedish and Swedish taxpayers and recipient countries. I also think it is important to bear in mind that the coronapendem will affect the world and not least Africa for many years to come. We see that extreme poverty is growing for the first time in 22 years, which I highlighted in my speech. But with our development policy, Sweden is still one of the largest donors in the world. I think the honourable Member has misunderstood this a little. She makes it sound like the Moderates want to cut the aid at their knees. It's not even close to it. Sweden would still be one of the largest donors in the world.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1306	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity in the debate to put forward a slightly broader perspective on the development of sub-Saharan Africa, in line with the specific opinion of the Center Party in the report. Of course, it cannot be done in an eight-minute speech to address the situation in each country on the African continent. Nevertheless, I would like to try to address some of the major challenges that we see coming again in country after country to varying degrees on the sub-Saharan African continent. It is first and foremost about the fight against poverty, about the fight against hunger. It is about the pursuit of free, democratic and equal societies. It is about the fight against corruption, which decomposes society from the inside, and about the fight for the functioning of the rule of law that ensures that the body of society remains healthy. It is about the negative effects of climate change on the already most vulnerable and about the pursuit of sustainable development for all the hundreds of millions of young people who on the African continent are fighting for and demanding a better future for themselves and their children. I'd like to talk about it tonight. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by talking about the role of Sweden and the European Union in solving these challenges, together with African states, African people, African civil society organisations, religious communities and other actors in partnership. If there is one thing I believe in, it is that we need to look forward and change some things in how we, from Swedish and European quarters, relate to the African continent. We are too often stuck in a von oben perspective and find it difficult to really see ourselves as equal partners. Sometimes we also get a little too nervous about this and do not bring with us the values that have built Sweden and Europe freely and strongly into this partnership for development. Madam President, I would like Not least, we are not the only ones who want an active and dynamic relationship with the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. It is not the case that Europe and Sweden can sit back and think that others will not try to influence developments on the African continent and in a completely different direction than we want. Of course, I am talking mainly about China and China's investments and attempts to steer development in African states in a non-democratic direction. I am talking about the Chinese attempts to usurp power over central infrastructure, valuable natural resources and the conditions for sustainable and successful development. We do not have the luxury of thinking that we do not have system competition against authoritarian states such as China, which wants to spread its social models, when we engage in partnership with African states. Madam President, I would like I think there are two ways we can go here. Let's say the Chinese win. We can say that authoritarian states win. We can say that forces like the Chinese Communist Party may turn the development in the wrong direction. Or we can take a serious and sober thought on which Africa we want to see within a generation. Do we want to see countries where more people have been lifted out of poverty and who can confidently look at the future and see a better future for themselves and their children? Do we want to see a string of democratic friend states that together help balance authoritarian forces, and do we want to see an African continent where development has actually been socially, ecologically and economically sustainable? For my part, Madam President, I believe not only that it is the right thing to do, but actually the smart thing to try to do everything we can to ensure that Sweden and Europe contribute to the latter scenario. Then we must also be able to get together on the European side. We need to be able to be quite clear in which direction we want, and we need to think about what we have to offer to help solve these challenges. And that must happen in a truly equal partnership. Otherwise, other partners will be chosen to try to develop with. Madam President, I would like Some of the things that I think are most important are, as I have already said, about the importance of promoting democratic development in Africa. This applies not only to party systems, free and fair elections, but also to all the other things that democracy actually means: the possibility of organising oneself in order to demand their rights, the opportunity to express themselves freely and to examine those in power and the possibility of building a strong civil society. It is a rule of law that is free from corruption and is about ensuring that one can demand one's right and that one can resolve disputes without having to go to tribal chiefs or an informal legal system. All of this is taken for granted in a democratic rule of law, but it is still in its infancy in too many countries. We cannot count on it to come of its own accord. I believe that Sweden and the EU need to focus on this in their development aid and think about how to contribute in every way to such development. Madam President, I would like Africa will experience an urbanisation rate that is faster than ever before in world history. Over the next 25 years, half a billion people are expected to move in Africa in search of alternative and sustainable livelihoods. This is in every way a huge challenge. Sweden needs to consider how we can contribute to these livelihoods and that people are equipped to seek them. The road to a better life does not just have to go through an urbanisation or slum area where you risk getting stuck in vulnerability. We need to realise that before the pandemic there were about three quarters of the poor in rural areas. The majority are women, and the majority make a living from agriculture. Madam President, I would like Sweden and other European countries have the keys to how to rise from poor agricultural communities to modern economies and states. We need to contribute to this happening on the African continent as well. The challenge is that it does not happen for a hundred years; it happens within a generation. We must then be more focused on reaching the very poorest who need help and support most. Sustainable energy production, electrification and climate adaptation must also be ensured, both by ensuring that there is no dependence on oil and that the most vulnerable do not have to bear the burden of a deterioration in the climate. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about the effects of the covidpandemic. It has exacerbated all these challenges. The risk is that we have lost ten years of development in a year of pandemic. It is also important to realize that more people have probably died because of the effects of lockdowns and that you cannot go to school or to work. People lose their livelihood and cannot feed themselves and their children. Last but not least, Madam President, after I have laid out the broad perspectives, I would like to take this opportunity, like Olle Thorell, to express our desire to see Dawit Isaak released as soon as possible. I would also like once again to express the support of the Center Party for the Sahrawi people and to condemn Morocco's brutal repression and attempts to silence the last critical voices within the occupied Western Sahara. The occupation needs to stop. I am sure other colleagues will come back to this later in the debate. With this, I would like to refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1321	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank those who have taken part in this important debate. I once had a water polo trainer who once said that all the coins have two sides. Maybe someone here has heard this before. He also said that all coins have two sides and one edge. I've remembered that ever since. Madam President, I would like It may sound a little bit in this debate that you only see one side of the coin, and that may often sound that way when we talk about the continent of Africa. We're just talking about misery, misery and trouble. It is easy for this to happen in a political debate because politics is there to solve problems. But if you are going to solve problems you have to see both sides of the coin; you have to see the opportunities that exist. Madam President, I would like In a debate like this, it is not possible to capture all the nuances. That's impossible. We are talking about over 50 different countries and 1 billion people. It's not just 1 billion people, it's 1 billion individuals with nuances, different lives, life chances and future. You have different luggage. It is impossible to capture all the nuances, but I think we should try to capture as much as possible. We must see both sides of the coin, and perhaps also the edge. Madam President, I would like It is people who build communities, countries and entire continents from below. In order to understand a continent and be able to lift it – in this case Africa – people must also be lifted. But it is worth mentioning some of the very serious problems that exist on the continent of Africa. As I said, you can't bring it all up. It is a continent that has been torn apart by war, authoritarian rule and colonialism, and it continues to be torn by many of these things, such as anti-democratic movement, religious sectarianism, genocide and terrorist organisations. In the past, we have talked about how LGBTi people are oppressed in some countries and certain communities. We have also talked about women's rights and how women are suffocated or not allowed to enjoy their rights. There are individual countries, regions and communities as examples of this. Madam President, I would like We have not talked as much about the other side of the coin. There is part of the story of the African continent that does not come out much in the debate. We have not talked about how this year – it was just now – in Burkina Faso, a study of 450 children aged 5-17 months was completed. There, for the first time, an effective and inexpensive simple and easy-to-produced antimalaria vaccine was produced. It is a disease that affects hundreds of millions of people. Every year 400 000 people lose their lives. This year we may have found a solution to the malaria issue, which of course also affects a great many people in Africa. Madam President, I would like Last year the polio disease was eradicated on the continent of Africa. New cultivation techniques are constantly being developed that can parry severe droughts that are partly caused by climate change, and these allow people to feed on the table. This also allows whole societies to develop, which would otherwise have been in very bad shape. There is a rapidly growing middle class. By 2030, nearly 200 million people will be high-income. More and more people have access to the internet and things that we certainly did not think would occur a few years ago in this part of the world. Trees are planted like never before. The rhinos, formerly endangered, appear to be doing well. So a lot of good things are happening. This is important, Madam President, because if we do not see the hope and positive developments can lead us into the future, it is difficult, I believe, to find good solutions. I think that the two-sided approach that exists in all people, all countries and all continents takes the form of concrete things, and I would like to mention a few examples. In the past, there has been talk of Somalia. It is one of six countries in the world where you can get the death penalty if you are a LGBTI person. The country is torn apart by war, abuse of power and ill-designed aid, but it is also a country that has very great potential if only liberal reforms were made. It is about reforms for democracy and a market economy. This is a very powerful country. Madam President, I would like Ethiopia has also been mentioned. It is a country where peace and economic development must be achieved. There is an opportunity to properly start respecting human rights and the reforms that began to be introduced. This is a country that has shown its feet by making reforms. The reforms that have been made to increase respect for human rights must be sustained, raised and made more of. We have to stop the war. We need peace. We must have economic development. But there are also light points, and we must stick to them. Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to this with aid, which has been highlighted by many earlier in the debate. There are indeed many examples on the continent of Africa where aid has been poorly designed, where aid has gone to the wrong things and where states that have received aid have not spent the money in a sound and reasonable way. But I think we should be very careful to think that we should come from outside, splash some money here and there and solve people's problems. I'll get back to that. Problems are solved from below by people themselves. Liberals are very strongly committed to the demand for high Swedish aid. The 1% target should be safeguarded, and it is our – excuse me – damn duty to ensure that there are resources out there in the world, regardless of which countries we are talking about, in order to lift people out of poverty and cope with crises, but also – that is why we have pushed it in the January agreement – to build democracy from below. It is incredibly important in many countries on the African continent. Ensuring that women have rights, safeguarding LGBT rights, building civil society and strengthening activists who fight for democracy from below can also achieve a fair market economy, democracy, economic development and free trade. Madam President, I would like I shall mention one last point which I think is very important and which has also been highlighted here before. It's about China. We from here, from Sweden and Europe, can sometimes have a look at Africa that is devalued. We do not see the opportunities and the successes. We do not see the chances of huge development and of lifting people into freedom. But it seems that China sees potential in Africa. Unfortunately, China is not doing it because they are good. It is not the case that China invests money in various countries in Africa and builds infrastructure because they want it well. On the contrary, Madam President, it is some form of neo-colonialism. You want to take resources. You want to put countries in debt. They want to spread their political and economic power. But you don't want to make sure that people get freer and richer lives in the future. For this reason, Madam President, we need to fight for more partnership and more mutual respect and for an African continent that is continuing to develop and where there is more democracy and respect for human rights.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1339	Madam President, I would like Something that strikes me when we deal with this report is that it is called Africa, but it really only affects a debris of the African continent. There's a lot of people who've been into it. What struck me is that what is in the political focus is so incredibly disappointing. We are learning about some of the world's poorest countries with extremely difficult humanitarian situations. These are conflicts, armed violence, sexual violence against women, discrimination against women and LGBTI people and dwindling democratic space. It's kind of disheartening. In addition, covid-19 changes the situation even more. When I came here to the Chamber, I put out a picture on Facebook and said that I was on my way here to debate Africa. I felt a little that it must be very strange when others read this. In fact, then I received a comment which I intend to read to you. It's a friend who writes like this:... Africa is a wonderfully beautiful continent with ancient cultures and good people. They're like us, but a little nicer. It's my experience. Then I think like this: But how nice! This brings me to a human perspective that is not only about the worst we see, but also about the fine things that of course also exist on the African continent. What is important for the Environmental Party when it comes to Sweden's work in this area is the focus on women's rights and SRHR in accordance with the feminist foreign policy, that Sweden always stands up for democratic principles, that we work to strengthen democracy and that we also express criticism of shortcomings when they occur. Aid, both emergency humanitarian and long-term, is important, even with the knowledge we have of difficulties with, for example, corruption. Nor can it be ignored the great damage caused by climate change to society's development. Here a great responsibility rests with those parts of the world that actually account for the great historical and modern emissions. Here is the responsibility of those of us who live – far beyond Africa's borders, I was about to say. Yes, we do. But we also live far beyond the boundaries of the planet, given the resources that the planet has. It is also something that we have promised to take responsibility for in the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030. I would like to make some impact in the report itself and start with Western Sahara. Sweden should continue to assert the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination. Much remains to be done in terms of equality and women's enjoyment of human rights. Women are under-represented in politics and working life, have fewer opportunities for education and are subject to discriminatory legislation. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that the proportion of women participating in the UN operation Minurso has increased from 5 to 22 per cent in a few years. It remains important that women's and girls' involvement and empowerment are central to peace and security building. Women's participation increases the possibility of sustainable peace. The Sahrawi people have the right to self-determination. In Somalia, poverty is widespread. Recurrent periods of drought and invasion of desert locusts exacerbate humanitarian challenges. The number of internally displaced persons, the majority of whom come from already marginalised populations, is growing and is up to 2.6 million. They often lack access to reasonable housing, toilets, water, safety, security and justice. Public services such as health care and education have major shortcomings. Sweden supported – financially through the UN and also politically – Somalia's participation in the UN Universal Review Mechanism in 2016. Sweden made recommendations to Somalia on ratifying the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, ratifying the Protocol to the African Charter of Human Rights, Peoples' Rights and Women's Rights in Africa, adopting and enforcing laws and regulations prohibiting all violence against women and ensuring that the law establishing an independent Human Rights Commission compatible with the Paris principles is implemented. These are recommendations that Somalia has accepted. We need to follow this and ensure that it is also achieved. Ethiopia is described as one of the poorest countries in the world. Sweden's development aid to the country includes a number of efforts in the field of human rights and democracy. These include free and fair elections, which we see as something that goes without saying. Sweden also provides a large amount of humanitarian aid. The Swedish Government continues its efforts to closely monitor the situation in Ethiopia and to conduct a close dialogue with actors in the country and the region. The government is actively working towards a peaceful solution and full respect for international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law. The UN Security Council has recently expressed great concern about allegations of human rights violations, abuse and sexual violence. This is indeed an extremely worrying situation. In Eritrea neither political opposition nor independent pressure is allowed to operate. A new constitution would be drawn up, but so far no progress has been made. The leading representatives of the opposition and the journalists imprisoned in 2001, including Dawit Isaak, are still being held. Representatives of Sweden have not met Dawit Isaak on the grounds that Eritrea does not accept dual citizenship. It's very serious. Dawit Isaak has a Swedish citizenship, and then he will be able to meet Swedish representation. Finally, solidarity with nature, with the world's people and future generations, is the foundation of the Green Party. For us, it is obvious that despite the challenges that still exist, aid will continue to support democratic development and to halt climate change. It is necessary for us to see more women with the power to influence and to strengthen the institutions we know are necessary to build a democratic society. It is a question of always, always standing up for democratic principles, working to strengthen democracy and expressing criticism when it is lacking. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7b92e61b1124a389-1351	Madam President, I would like We are now debating a report dealing with motion requests concerning West Africa, the Horn of Africa and South Africa. My colleague Yasmine Posio drew up the more general features, and she also talked about the Horn of Africa. In my speech, I will focus on the Western Sahara issue but will also say a few words about South Africa. When apartheid was abolished in South Africa and democracy was introduced in 1994, one of the most brutal systems the world has ever seen was abolished. It was a system based on systematic repression of the black population and where racism was enshrined in the Constitution. It was a system in which the black majority lacked all democratic freedoms and rights. In Sweden there was unique broad support in the fight against apartheid. I was one of the participants. When democracy was introduced in 1994, South Africa faced a gigantic task with enormous challenges. The former apartheid regime has been replaced by democratic institutions, an independent judiciary, a viable civil society, free media and independent institutions. At the same time, major challenges remain in tackling the enormous unemployment, poverty and the major shortcomings in terms of democratic freedoms and rights. South Africa is today still one of the world's most unequal countries. Racial and discrimination laws have been removed, but the inheritance of apartheid still shines through, and the differences in terms and opportunities can be huge. Madam President, I would like South Africa's millions of poor need continued support. I believe it is particularly important to support the work on women's rights and to support women who have been victims of violence. I am pleased that Sweden has acted in the UN for this. Other areas that are important to support are the work for democracy and human rights. I believe that this is best done by extending support to various civil society organisations that are already working on these issues. We could also develop bilateral exchanges between, for example, higher education institutions and universities. I note that this year's Per Anger Prize was awarded to human rights activist S'bu Innocent Zikode. He fights for the right to home, land and survival of the poorest in South Africa's shanty towns. It is a very good choice of winners who also show that there is hope for South Africa's most vulnerable. Madam President, I would like On 27 February, the Sahrawi State was the 45th anniversary of SADR. It is a state proclaimed by the Western Sahara representative Polisario after the former colonial power of Spain instead of following the UN decision to decolonize the country handed it over to Morocco. This illegal act was the start of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara. It is an occupation that is still under way and which is totally contrary to the wishes of the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which early stated that Western Sahara belongs to the Sahrawi people and no one else. The occupation led to the outbreak of war between Morocco and Polisario. It was a war that lasted 16 years before the ceasefire was concluded between the parties. It was a ceasefire linked to the holding of a UN-led referendum on the future and independence of Western Sahara. It is a referendum which, 30 years later, has still not taken place. On 13 November 2020, i.e. last year, the long cease-fire broke out and war broke out again between Morocco and Polisario. This was done after Morocco had invaded a buffer zone in the south by building a road with the aim of transporting goods plundered in the occupied Western Sahara. As a result, Morocco violated the UN-mediated cease-fire agreement concluded with Polisario 30 years earlier. In the occupied part of Western Sahara, the situation of the civilian population has worsened following the ceasefire. The civilian population is subjected to systematic repression and persecution. Human rights defenders are placed under house arrest, subjected to arbitrary arrests and even torture. Peaceful demonstrations have been attacked, and a large number of demonstrators have been arrested. In practice, there has been a long-standing state of emergency in the occupied Western Sahara. Morocco has total control, not the United Nations. Virtually no independent observers or journalists are allowed into the country. Madam President, I would like It is high time that the outside world acted forcefully to protect the Sahrawi population. Sweden must act in order to allow the Red Cross to enter, and the mandate of Mr Minurso must be extended to include human rights monitoring. The UN Force MINURSO is the only UN force that lacks this mandate, which is remarkable to say the least. The UN Force Minurso has been responsible for holding a referendum on the future of Western Sahara for 30 years. Unfortunately, however, the UN has not been able to carry out its mission, but has repeatedly been betrayed by the Sahrawi people. Now, Sweden must do its utmost to press in the UN and in other contexts for the promised referendum to take place as soon as possible, for a clear timetable to be drawn up for this and for a new UN representative to be appointed for Western Sahara. There is no other solution to the conflict. If nothing happens, there is a great risk that the war will escalate and expand, with potentially devastating consequences for the whole region. A fundamental reason for Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara is its rich access to raw materials such as fish and phosphate. The occupation power has no right whatsoever to the raw materials, but they belong to the Sahrawi people. It is good that Sweden as its only country has voted against the fisheries agreement between the EU and Morocco. But we must also ensure that all trade and investment in the occupied Western Sahara is stopped. Clear guidelines and rules on this need to be drawn up for Swedish companies and investors. Swedish companies and investors should not contribute to financing Morocco's occupation. As the war broke out in 1975, a large part of the Sahrawi population was forced to flee Morocco's terror. Refugees have since lived in refugee camps in the Sahara desert in Algeria under very difficult conditions. After all, the police have managed to build a functioning society with schools, basic health care and a functioning state. But the situation in the refugee camps is very difficult, and the need for support is great. For a long time, the camps received Swedish support in the form of canned mackerel. This mackerel was the only protein food for a long time. But now it has been withdrawn, and the mackerel is very missing in the camps. One thing that would greatly contribute to giving the Sahrawi people new hope is if Sweden recognises the Sahrawi state in accordance with the majority decision taken in the Riksdag in 2012. It would give the Sahrawi people confidence in the future and improve their negotiating position. The UN has so far failed in its mission, even though it has had 30 years. Those who pay the price for this are all the Sahrawi people who live during the occupation and are subjected daily to hatred, threats, harassment and imprisonment. It is the Sahrawi people who have been stuck in refugee camps in the Sahara desert for 45 years and who are increasingly losing faith in another future. It is high time that the outside world woke up and seriously stood up for international law and the people of Western Sahara.
