i-3853240c3fa80b6c-7	Madam President, I would like Never before have so many people been long-term unemployed in Sweden as at present. Never before have the shootings been more frequent and the insecurity greater. I think, and I hope, that there is something that should shape this debate. A few weeks ago, we presented moderates to our budget, which is called "Halfed long-term unemployment and increased security". There's our focus. I would like to endorse reservation number one to our own motion. Madam President, I would like High unemployment is Sweden's biggest economic problem. Of course, it is first and foremost a problem for those who do not have a job to go to – some have to wait one, two, three or perhaps more years before entering the labour market. They do not have co-workers and do not feel that they belong to a working community. Nor do they have a salary of their own. However, unemployment and, in particular, long-term unemployment also cost huge amounts of money. If unemployment in Sweden had only developed as the average in the EU since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, public finances would have been strengthened by 42 billion per year, Madam President. 42 billion is so much money that it may be difficult to put it in relation to something. Let me give just one example of what 42 billion is enough: 88 000 nurses or more than 70 000 primary school teachers. Unemployment costs. It has a human price, but it is also a cost to society at large. The high unemployment rate also leads to lower pensions. It risks making integration impossible for those who are trapped in lifelong exclusion and who have immigrated to Sweden, and that creates child poverty. It is clear that this, in turn, leads to hopelessness and frustration, which sometimes forms the basis for the recruitment of criminal gangs. Madam President, I would like Repressing unemployment is crucial for Sweden's future for many reasons. The question then arises: what is the government doing about this in this spring budget? Not much. You do more of the same thing. What has been done since 2014 continues. But then I can only say that this is what has led us to one of the highest levels of unemployment in the European Union. So we will not be helped by continuing in exactly the same way that we have always done. If the work line is dismantled, unemployment will not fall. And this government has dismantled the work line. This has been done to the extent that every second immigrant of working age is now unable to support himself – every other person. There are 675 000 people of working age who live in Sweden and who do not support themselves. Of course, Madam President, it does not have to be like this. I have great hope that this development can be reversed. But a completely different policy is needed, and politicians are required to understand that it is not more taxes that are the solution. The solution is that more people pay taxes and provide grants and benefits for jobs. The contribution line must be replaced by the work line. In the spring budget, Madam President, which we Moderates present, we have a particular focus on long-term unemployment. We are presenting three measures that are part of what we can see could halve long-term unemployment in three years. Like I said, it's three parts. The first is about increasing the driving forces of work. This is about a job premium that allows you to keep much more of your salary when you go from unemployment to work. But it is also a subsidy ceiling. For those families where it is not worthwhile to take a job, there is a ceiling on how high the benefits can be. The second part is about making it easier for employers to hire a person who has been outside for a long time. We want to reduce costs significantly for employers who employ a long-term unemployed person. It's called a fresh start job. It's been tried before. It is one of the most effective ways of getting people out of work back to work. The third part is about Arbetsförmedlingen. Arbetsförmedlingen must work actively with people who have been outside for a long time. Unfortunately, today is not the day. People need to have a chance at an internship. It's an effective way for people to show what they're capable of. They do not lose their sense of the labour market, and they have to show their skills in a job. This government, together with the January parties, has already ensured, before the pandemic, that traineeships are becoming fewer and fewer. However, we have these proposals, Madam President, and we are convinced that this would push down long-term unemployment and even halve it. Let me mention a group of long-term unemployed with whom I am particularly concerned. These are the people who are over 55 years old. There are no special efforts from the government here. But the problem is bigger than that. The problem is that we in Sweden have an ageism that is absolutely horrible. We must help to combat this. After turning 40, the probability of being called to an interview decreases. It's crazy. Then the policy must ensure that the 55-year-old and long-term unemployed are given extra support and help to come back. We have proposals for this in our budget. But ageism must be fought in every way, by us jointly and by us in politics. Madam President, I would like I read an interview with the Minister of Finance last week. She was portrayed in a smoke cloud and told me that she wants to hunt down the gang criminals in their dreams at night. That's good, but honestly, I don't know how scared they're gonna be. I think it would have been much better if the Social Democrats and the Green Party had voted in favour of the Moderates' proposal that the police should listen preventively to the gang criminals – that is the case in other countries. Sweden cannot rely on the FBI or nightmares about the Finance Minister to stop the Swedish gangs. In our budget, we also announce that we will set aside 400 million a year to strengthen the police's technical capacity to combat this type of gang crime. They simply need to be allowed to do as the FBI and as the police in France so that even more can be put in jail. Madam President, I would like There are elections next year, and we see a clear dividing line between parties. While the Finance Minister wants to tax hardworking people and small savers for failing to do her job, we are moving in a completely different direction. I would like to give the Minister for Finance, the parties in the government and also the cooperation parties some good advice. If we are even going to discuss increased taxes, and you may have to do that sometimes, you have to do three things first of all. Firstly, push back unemployment! There's a lot of money there that can go to welfare, to the police and to defense. Secondly, make sure you have the courage to give priority to state expenditure! I have a whole list of things that can actually be reduced that I am happy to discuss with the Minister for Finance and others. Thirdly, stop the withdrawal of criminals from welfare systems! There's so much to do. For example, the fact that the government has not yet made sure to have a clause in the legislation on short-term lay-off that penalises those who actually cheat with lay-off aid is completely incomprehensible to me. Billions shouldn't go to criminals. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that the pandemic is not over. It is still ongoing even if the sun is shining here in Stockholm, the vaccine is being rolled out and more and more are being vaccinated. It gives us hope. But the pandemic isn't over. Right now, people are fighting for their lives. Right now, many people in health care and care for the elderly are helping people who are sick. We shall hold on and endure for their sakes and for all our sakes, so that we may sometime be able to come back to something more normal. Madam President, I would like It is also gratifying that so many Swedish companies are doing well now. It is a strong force and global demand that makes many industrial companies walk like trains. However, many smaller companies are still struggling in, for example, the hotel and restaurant industry, and we Moderates will not leave until the pandemic is over. We will hold on and hold out even to save jobs and companies that are having a tough time in the pandemic. We are simply not letting go, and I think, for example, that it is completely unreasonable to have the budget presented by the government and the cooperation parties just the other day. When we are going to extend the aid, on which we are very much in agreement, it is said that it will apply from 1 July, but the companies cannot start applying until 1 November. It is an unreasonable approach, and we intend to do everything we can to change that. It may not be said, Madam President, twice in conclusion, but I will do it anyway. I would like to address all the members of the Committee on Finance, at the Registry, to the President and Vice-Presidents, to the Presidium of Presidents and also to the Minister for Finance. This has been a very intense and special year for many of us. I wish you a nice summer, and I really want to send along and hope that you all will have some really nice days for recovery. It's going to be necessary. Thank you for your cooperation! I also think that Parliament and the government together during this year have shown themselves many times from their very best side. We have worked together and we have worked quickly to get as good support as possible. It's good and good.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-37	Madam President, I would like We're starting to sense the light in the tunnel. Vaccinations are underway. Death rates are falling. When I met the organization Företagarna a few weeks ago, the atmosphere remained quite serious and concerned but still with elements of optimism. In fact, a great deal of their 60 000 business members see the need for new entrants in the foreseeable future, and the fact is that it is the small businesses, of course together with others, who will drive the recovery. It's not primarily us who work in this house, it's them out there. In this particular situation, just as we are beginning to see the light in the tunnel, the Social Democrats are presenting the tax shock of world history to the small business sector by moving on to the 3:12 framework. First of all, it's bad politics. An entrepreneur must, first and foremost, succeed in creating profitability in his company, i.e. having a profit. If you succeed in doing that, you first pay tax on that profit. Then you have the opportunity to take a small part of that profit in dividends. If you do, you also pay taxes on that dividend. Small entrepreneurs are in no way a privileged tax advantage. Basically, it's the ordinary working class we're talking about. Do you take away the opportunities to make money, as the Social Democrats want, why on earth should you start a business at all? Now it is not just the entrepreneurs who have a tax shock to wait if the Minister of Finance gets what she wants. Even pension savers have every reason to worry. If you have worked an entire working life in an ordinary profession to a normal average salary, with collective agreements and occupational pension provision, there will be quite a substantial sum there after 40 to 45 years in your professional life, i.e. just in time for you to retire. It is clear that SEK 1 million sounds very much. Then you are a millionaire, and then you have to pay the Social Democrats' millionaire tax. But if you consider that this million will last for ten, twenty or thirty years and perhaps even longer, that is, from the moment you actually retire until you finally throw in the towel and walk forever over Bifrost, it is not quite as much money anymore. The same applies, of course, to all those who benefit from pension savings under an investment savings account. If you go to work every day and pay taxes on your salary and then save a small part of the already taxed salary, well, then there is a fair penny there after 40 years on the labour market with interest-on-interest effect. It is really excellent that people take responsibility for their own situation in that way – which they do because they do not trust the pension system for which the Social Democrats are responsible. This should, of course, be encouraged, not prevented by the tax burden of world history. If you are genuinely worried about income gaps, you should start at the other end. Then you should start addressing the fact that we have 675 000 foreign born people in Sweden who are unable to support themselves, let alone someone else. Then you should not go after ordinary honest people who go to work every day, pay taxes on their salary and save a small part of the already taxed salary. It is therefore a particularly irresponsible migration policy, both by this and by previous governments, that is driving the income gap. The biggest gap, of course, is between those who can support themselves and those who cannot, between those who have a job to go to and those who do not. Let us address the problem of unemployment instead! That's a real problem. Saving people for their own pension is not a problem but, on the contrary, something positive. Madam President, I would like The state budget does not only have a revenue side with taxes, fees and the like. In fact, it has a spending side as well. If you are worried that you cannot afford the things you want to do, you can actually give priority to the expenditure side as well. This government has sent SEK 150 billion of taxpayers' money into grants, straight into a black hole to Brussels and the EU. You get quite a few nurses, teachers and police for SEK 150 billion. They send 50 billion dollars in international aid to countries across the globe — each year. Amnesty is granted, and consequently also grants, to adult Afghan men without grounds of asylum and without reasonable grounds for a residence permit in Sweden. If you are worried about the needs we have at home, in Swedish welfare and in Swedish justice, then you can actually start prioritising these particular needs slightly higher. Only a halving of aid, as we in the Swedish Democrats propose in our budget option, had freed up quite a lot of resources to municipalities and regions, to elderly care and health care, and to the police and the judiciary. In the world of Social Democrats, however, it is easier to run with a blowtorch and chase ordinary honest wage earners just because they have been diligent and disciplined and saved money to secure their own future and their own pension. That you're not ashamed! Madam President, I would like The period we have found ourselves in has also underlined the need for long-term and sustainable financing of municipalities and regions. The fact that the state has taken a large part of the extraordinary Corona-related costs that have been incurred is, of course, a good thing. We in the Committee on Finance have decided on a number of amending budgets aimed at strengthening the local government sector. That's good. However, more than just temporary reinforcements are needed. We need permanent reinforcements. Do you need more staff in any municipality? You can't really solve it with temporary money. If you need long-term investment, it is also difficult to solve with temporary money. In the Swedish Democrats' budget options, we strengthen the financial position of municipalities and regions in the long term and not just for the rest of the year. It is about regular contributions from the state and widening, not raising, the tax base. This, of course, ensures better working conditions in the public sector and more work colleagues for employees in the public sector, which in turn ensures greater well-being. We are doing this by cutting expenditure which is less prioritised, that is, by prioritising it differently, not by raising taxes. Madam President, I would like In the days, or at least the other week, we had a rather spectacular and gratifying international law enforcement effort. The U.S. FBI conducted an advanced, purposeful operation with hundreds of arrests in organized crime. That is extremely pleasing. More astounding was the disproportionately large proportion of Swedish citizens arrested in this international operation. Almost a fifth, 155 people, were arrested in Sweden by all countries. It is not a desirable position to have to rely on foreign police authorities to sort out the chaos that you have created yourself. What are all these people doing here? How and why have they come to Sweden? The answer is what virtually everyone, most of them apart from the government, understands, namely that it is because of an irresponsible immigration policy and a lax criminal policy. What happens in the wake of this, in a situation where the prison service is not only fully occupied but more than 100 percent full? What happens now? Now is the time for massive investment, investment and expansion of all parts of the judiciary – not least the prison service – so that we can lock people up for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like There are obviously huge problems that need to be solved in Sweden. They're big, but they're not insoluble. It is equally clear that a new government with other priorities is needed to solve the problems. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish everyone in this House and any viewers a pleasant summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-59	Madam President, I would like Lower taxes for the most wealthy. A crisis policy that benefits the richest. Increased job insecurity. Privatisation and the introduction of market rents. Right-wing politics delivers and damages social development. The sender is the Social Democrats. Social democrats who went to elections to be against market rents are now in the front line to introduce them. They're moving towards their own voters. In a question of whether you want to introduce free renting, as it is so beautifully termed, 8% of the voters of the Social Democrats answer that they can imagine it. If you had asked a question if they wanted to introduce market rents, you probably wouldn't even have gotten the little crowd together. It is simply a policy that is detrimental to all of us. We want our children to be able to leave home. We want pensioners to be able to afford to live. We want people to keep money in their wallets when the rent is paid. Obviously, the Social Democrats do not want that, nor does the Center Party, the Liberals or the Green Party. But it is possible to build a robust society that can cope with a crisis that guarantees financial security in the event of illness and unemployment, with well-functioning health care and care for the elderly, a school that enables all children to obtain full grades, with safe employees and a full economic employment policy. There is a need for large, necessary investments in climate change and jobs that actually build away the housing shortage with housing that people can afford to live in. The pandemic has clearly exposed the shortcomings and structural errors in the Swedish economy. Although Sweden has certainly managed the pandemic better than many other countries, there are major system failures. The neoliberal experiments that have been going on over the last few decades have led the wrong way. Let me explain neoliberalism in a simple way. We have also seen in other areas that have privatised that prices have risen sky high and that investments have not been made. It's just to check out the car test, the Arbetsförmedlingen, the electricity grids, the pharmacies and so on. This may come as a surprise to the Center, but the needs and problems we have in common in society we solve better in common. Private companies' objectives are not social benefits or to solve rural problems, but to make profits for the owners. The neoliberal dogmas that have ruled should have been buried long ago and a new era of politics that has brought people's best interests to mind instead. It is not the immigrants' fault that Sweden has had a neoliberal policy that has eroded our security systems, underfunded welfare, left the people in the lurch and reduced the strength of society. Economic policy has brought us here. Instead, the Swedish democrats like to hit down. Here they have stood in the speaker's seat and been maligned by discussions about raising the tax on the IS account for those who have the most money in the accounts. Let me give you some examples. The 300 people who have the most money at ISK are expected to receive a tax discount of 15 million this year. The percentage with the most money in the account is estimated to receive a tax discount of 1 million. The 10 percent who have the most money in the account are expected to receive a tax discount of 200,000 this year. Since the introduction of ISK, EUR 150 billion has not been included in the State budget. That's what this is about. You can hit down on people who have fled for this life or for other reasons have come here to get a better life for their children. In fact, however, there has been a policy that has benefited the richest in society. It would be nice and comfortable if you could admit it. But I guess it's nicer to hit down, and you get better yourself. Instead, we want to see long-term and stable financing of welfare where the era of cuts is over. Today, the cuts continue tirelessly, with consequences for all of us. While the cuts are in progress, huge private profits are being picked out of tax-funded welfare – and some bonuses as well. Apparently, we can afford that. To the right, the interests of capital go before the welfare of the people. But it can be done differently. Instead, let us ensure that state subsidies for health care, education and long-term care are increased sharply and in the long term! Let us introduce investment aid so that enough retirement homes, schools and preschools are built in premises that show how important these activities are to us humans! They should shine and sparkle and be adapted to the needs and the latest research. They shall be energy efficient and environmentally friendly. The working conditions and salaries of employees are not improved by applause, but by ensuring that there is money. There should be time for every child in preschool and school, for the elderly's need for care and for the care and rehabilitation of the sick. Continued tax cuts make this impossible. Sweden now needs to take a strong stance against unemployment. It is a huge waste of people's willingness to contribute and their skills and know-how, and it is directly bad for the national economy and democracy. The Left Party therefore proposes major investments in jobs and climate change. We believe that the fiscal framework needs to be complemented by employment plans with medium-term targets for employment and reduction of unemployment. Economic policy must be steered away from unemployment. We are therefore already proposing this year a series of measures that are important and easy to get started, such as speeding up major rail investments and increasing rail maintenance, such as the Inland Line, a powerful broadband expansion in rural areas and support for smaller companies for the further development of products. A saw may want to start making glulam beams or roof chairs, and another company may want to develop insulation. We are investing in more electric buses and support for the hard hit taxi industry so that the serious riders remain. We also propose support for the development of trade in small rural municipalities. This would save jobs, provide jobs and contribute to better social development. Madam President, I would like Let us build an equal society! Those who have benefited in recent decades will now have to pay back to welfare, also so that children and young people can get free activities the year out. Not a child should have to give up dancing or football, scouts or music because the parents can't afford it. Families with children with three children or more think we should get extra payment of the multi-child supplement, as many have got it extra difficult during the pandemic. We propose an additional payment of SEK 1 000 for those with the lowest pensions, those with sickness benefits and the long-term unemployed. Our security systems have been eroded, and people are being poor. That is why we are proposing an additional payment this year. Of course, we are also proposing reinforcements in the security systems, because it is shameful that we allow people, chronically ill or disabled people, poor people and living in poverty. We want to introduce a fund to avoid eviction and increase investment aid so that more rental apartments with reasonable rents can be built, because we need to build away housing shortages and overcrowding. And you know what? I can promise you that neither overcrowding, housing shortages, segregation nor child poverty are solved by the introduction of market rents. Instead, it becomes a poison cocktail without equals. This political urge to make things worse for ordinary people is hard to understand. Shocking people's rents has become so important that they are prepared to create a government crisis. Madam President, I would like It's possible to do differently. It is possible to build a society that is strong for the future. An equal society that gives people opportunities to develop, contribute and gain security and thus freedom. A society where economic policy is geared towards full employment and the necessary climate change. A society in which tax policy is truly redeployable from high-income to low-income earners and where wealthy people have to pay for the well-being that is needed and contribute to common much-needed investments rather than buying another bungalow in the sun or a luxury boat or two. A society that puts our common good first, not the privileged few. We want to build that society. That is left-wing politics! I usually forget it, but I'll also wish you all a nice summer. I hope you will rest, stay healthy, and spend time with loved ones. There's a certain desire for it, if I say so.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-83	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation, which has number 4. We are standing here today in a break time, where we have assurances or hopes that we are coming out of the worst part of the pandemic. But the social problems have not taken a break during the time when much of our attention has been devoted to the pandemic, but the structural societal problems that we saw before the pandemic have in some cases deepened during this time. I am thinking of long-term unemployment. I'm thinking about insecurity. I am thinking of the situation in care for the elderly, and I am thinking not least of health care. Long-term unemployment risks becoming a prolonged and low-intensity crisis that can follow us for many years unless we take very strong action now. The problem is that long-term unemployment was allowed to grow in a boom. Both the number and the proportion of people in vulnerable positions in the labour market rose and were very high even before we entered the pandemic with its economic problems. We know that long-term unemployment brings social problems. This brings with it very great health problems. It brings loneliness and isolation when you no longer feel the community around the coffee machine, the community in meeting your colleagues and complaining about the coffee. This is a very big and growing concern for Sweden. The problem is that there was no policy to counter these problems before the pandemic, and now the problems have worsened. I would say that they have also been made worse by government policy. We have had a crisis policy in the country that has been partly good. We have had good cooperation, especially at the beginning of the pandemic. But we in Parliament have also had to drag the government to a number of efforts for companies that have therefore come later and to a lesser extent than they should. On one point, there is reason to criticise the government very strongly, and it is about how it has designed lay-off aid. I have mentioned many times in this House that temporary workers – substitute workers, probationary workers, hourly workers – have not had the same protection in the pandemic as permanent workers. This is despite the fact that international crisis experience shows that lay-off systems should be designed to include temporary staff. This shows the experience of the financial crisis. Those countries that did not do so before that crisis have done so after that crisis and now, because it was seen that people with lower levels of protection in the labour market were hit hard in the pandemic from the outset. I'm not the only one saying this. We have just received the Financial Policy Council's evaluation of the government's fiscal policy, and the Council notes that the fact that there is a lower number of unemployed in the manufacturing and hotel and restaurant industries is not only due to the variable impact of the crisis on demand in these industries. The Council also notes that one of the government's crisis measures, the support for short-term work and short-term lay-off, has in principle not included temporary and temporary employees and that this is likely to have meant that people in the hotel and restaurant sector have lost their jobs to a greater extent than would have been necessary. We heard at the Ecot today how the social assistance applications, the applications for financial assistance, are now increasing. One group where they increase is people who have had fixed-term jobs that they have now lost. The Council of Finance Ministers takes note of this. A whole new policy is now needed to combat long-term unemployment. Unfortunately, in the government's spring bill, there was not a single new approach to tackling these problems. It seems to me that there is a great deal of hope in a reform which has been condemned by the consultative bodies and also by the Minister for Finance, namely a reduction in employers' contributions for young people. But now there is a need for a completely different approach. We are proposing a substantial reinforcement of the new start jobs. This has been done in the past with very good results. This gives more people the chance to enter the labour market and more employers have such low costs that they are prepared to employ people who have been far removed from the labour market for a long time. This needs to happen now. We want to see a reinforced wrist support so that more companies will feel that it is possible for them to hire more people in this situation. We want more internships. But we also want to ensure that we make room for more people in the Swedish labour market through a major investment in work integration social enterprises that can provide opportunities for people who have been outside the labour market for a long time. At the same time, we want to increase driving forces into work by giving those who have been outside for a long time a double job tax deduction on low incomes when going back into work. We know this can contribute to the development of more jobs – we have seen this internationally. It will be a kind of job premium for those who go from benefit provision into work, which will be a strong driving force and also make more jobs possible to take. Madam President, I would like We also need very major reforms in the judiciary. With the Christian Democrats' policy, the judiciary would have had 2.2 billion more to move around this year. But not only more resources are needed, but more tools are also needed. We have seen that it can make a big difference what tools the police have. Recent very successful efforts have, of course, been based on tools that the Swedish police do not have access to. Of course they must. We need to ensure that more police stations open and that more courts can open around Sweden so that the presence of the judiciary is also physically manifested in a clearer way in order to push back crime. Preventive measures are incredibly important. It is about cooperation between police, school and social services, but also, of course, about the important role of the family and civil society in providing security, setting frameworks and limits and giving love during the childhood of young people. This is very important. But it is also a very important crime prevention effort to ensure that the risk is high to actually get caught if you commit crimes. More police officers and more new tools are needed to make this possible. We need to change care for the elderly. We need to ensure that medical skills are raised and staff continuity increased so that the elderly face far fewer in care for the elderly than is the case today, and we have the chance to build the relationships that also create the quality of care for the elderly. We need to make sure you have access to doctors and nurses when you need them. And we need to ensure that the working conditions of the elderly staff, who have been subject to exceptions for so long, are improved so that the involuntary shared tours, which make life more difficult for many people in our country who work in the care of the elderly, disappear. Madam President, I would like Over to medical care. We saw doubled care queues before the pandemic, and we know that a great many patients, as a result of the pandemic's enormous strain on health care, have had to be queued, as it is said. This means that we have a large health debt that we need to deal with, and we need to use all the available resources of care to make this possible. We therefore propose a national health care agency and that the state is already taking a clearer approach to procure all available care available in Sweden and then be able to match the care needed, so that we can work actively in the best way to reduce the very large health debt, which leads to pain and sick leave and to companies not being able to get back their key personnel and so on. In the long term, we need to review the system of 21 different independent regions, each of which will be able to cope with all the abilities of care. That is not the way forward if we are to meet the challenges of health care, Madam President. We also need to make further reinforcements of primary care, as we propose in our spring exercise. Madam President, I would like We also need to be able to lift our eyes. We have a situation in our surrounding world where poverty is at risk of increasing sharply in the wake of the pandemic and where, as a result, more children are at risk of being married off. When schools are closed, many children have also lost their only meal a day in countries where safety nets or rescue packages are not available in the same way as in our country. And we have a situation where the supply of vaccines goes too slowly to these parts of the world. We, from the Swedish side, need to make a great deal of effort to do this. And it is clear that it is hopeful when you also see leaders of the democratic world come together and talk and try to find solutions to this kind of problem. Madam President, I would like We also need to think now, as we emerge from a crisis situation in the pandemic, about what can be the lingering effects in our country, when people who have lost their communities need to be able to find their way back to them. How can we, together and in the best way, ensure that there are as many extended arms as possible from us as our fellow human beings, but also from a warm and vibrant civil society, which has had such a tough time during the pandemic, so that you can and want to continue with all your important work to give community and a helping hand to those who are in vulnerable situations? Here I see great needs and great challenges for us in this House when it comes to creating the conditions for us to enter the next phase together. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Finance as well as the committee's fantastic office staff, who have worked incredibly hard this year, as well as you in the Presidium of Presidents and all the officials, who are enabling us to do the work in Parliament anyway.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-111	Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, the Swedish economy has been hit by the deepest economic crisis since the Second World War, and we have yet to find a solution. The pandemic is not over, although we all hope that it is the light in the tunnel that we are now seeing. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we have taken historic crisis measures to protect life and health, jobs and welfare together. And the support has made a big difference. Health care has had the resources to face the crisis, municipalities have not had to cut back in the middle of the crisis and many businesses and jobs have been saved. A rapid introduction of short-term lay-off support alone has allowed half a million Swedes to go down in working hours and avoid the risk of losing their job. Madam President, I would like First and foremost, the pandemic is a crisis for people's lives and health. Many have lost someone close to them. Even more have been ill themselves. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, our message has therefore been clear: money must not, will not and should not stand in the way of health care work. In this budget, we are therefore putting an additional EUR 2 billion into the regions for additional costs related to covid-19, but also to enable them to take advantage of the care that has been postponed in the shadow of the pandemic. We are also paying 50 million for the extra costs of fast-track transport due to covid-19. Of course, the most important thing for saving lives and health is rapid and effective vaccination. In this budget, too, we are pushing for more money – 1.7 billion for vaccine purchases and 1.65 billion for additional large-scale testing. At the moment, more than 6 million people have received their first dose of vaccine in Sweden. As vaccination progresses, we can begin to socialize and live more as usual again. It's actually pretty amazing– I myself haven't met my parents in a year, and it's a record that I really don't want to have to experience again. Soon you can meet again, and not only that – the vaccination also leads to a very rapid economic recovery, which is very gratifying. Even if we now see the light in the tunnel, the Swedish economy has been hit hard by the pandemic. Many industries, not least the more closely connected industries, are still in a very tough position. In order to continue to help fundamentally viable companies through the crisis, this budget provides resources to Almi to enable them to handle a continued increase in the amount of credit applications. We also add more than SEK 3 billion to support short-term work and extend the support for rental costs. Madam President, I would like It is only when everyone who can work also works that we can strengthen welfare, speed up climate change and hire more police. In the wake of the pandemic, many have lost their job. Long-term unemployment has risen, despite major efforts. Of course, this is not good enough – unemployment should be pushed back. It was already in the budget bill for this year's major investment in more jobs. Now we continue this work and add SEK 448 million for additional services, introductory jobs and matching services. These are measures that are, above all, important for reducing long-term unemployment. From June to August we also reduce the employer's contribution for young people. Young people are a group that has had a tough time in the labour market during the pandemic. Foreign born, especially those with a lack of knowledge of Swedish, have been particularly hard hit by the crisis as they have a weak position in the labour market. That is why we are providing funds for around 7 000 annual study places on combined training courses combining professional skills with SFI courses in Komvux. This is a type of training that also contributes greatly to shortening the start-up period, and it is really time that we did this. Society's efforts for people with disabilities have a lot of shortcomings. As unemployment increases, it also becomes more difficult for people with disabilities to find a job. Therefore, in this budget, we are putting money into what is called Introduction to Work, which enables more people to strengthen their ability to be matched to work, studies or a labour market policy programme. Those affected by unemployment must meet both economic security and good opportunities for transition. Unemployed people must be equipped to take on the jobs that exist and grow. It is good both for society and for the individual. That's why in this budget we send large funds to professional adults, to summer courses and to folk high school. Madam President, I would like In recent weeks social media has been filled with pictures of happy students, but the big student celebrations and school graduations have been missed this year too. Our children and young people have made great sacrifices since the outbreak of the pandemic. The consequences of distance learning have been great. It is not very fun, nor is it easy to live through school time through a computer screen. For some it has worked, and for a few it has been a boost. For many, however, it has been very difficult to pass the studies without physical presence. That's why we're shooting at resources for holiday school and extra resources for school. The municipalities also receive SEK 180 million to be able to invest in summer jobs for young people. We will strengthen the housing allowance for families with children. This is a help to many households who have had a tough time when the chances of jobs and extra jobs disappeared in an economic crisis. Madam President, I would like In addition to the pandemic, the fight against social problems continues. Climate change is the major challenge of our time, but it is also a huge opportunity for our country. We are now making the biggest climate investments ever, and we are seeing how the industry is changing. This creates tens of thousands of new green jobs in Sweden with high competitiveness. In this year's spring change budget, we will continue work on the green re-launch. We are expanding our investment in close-to-nature jobs for young people. We increase the authorisation for climate investments by half a billion and provide resources for climate adaptation. We are providing funds to start work on a national ticketing system. We are giving EUR 1 billion to public transport and continuing the effort of environmental compensation for freight transport in order to promote climate-smart transport by rail. Of course, we are also continuing the fight against crime, because gang crime must be broken. Last week we saw how the hard work of the police gave effect when 155 people in Sweden were detained in a major international operation. This is a great success, but of course more needs to be done. The fight against serious crime must be waged here and now in order to remove the serious criminal violence from our streets. Stop shooting is a collaborative approach to serious violence in criminal groups that has been successfully used in Malmö. Now we are providing funds to spread this across the country. We continue to equip the entire legal chain with more resources to the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency, the Swedish Courts, the Swedish Correctional Service, the National Board of Forensic Medicine and the Swedish Customs Agency. Madam President, I would like The home should be a safe place, but for many children and women it is not. In the shadow of increased isolation, violence and abuse tend to increase in the home. We therefore continue to strengthen the organisations that work with children in vulnerable situations and those who work with support for violent women and against violence in close relationships. Madam President, I would like History shows that economic crises often hit those who have the least. How to respond to this is a matter of political priorities. The behaviour of the moderate-led government during the financial crisis, which is the closest reasonable comparison we can make, taught us that passivity was a very expensive story. That government did not compensate for the tax loss of the local government sector. Major deteriorations in the unemployment fund caused the a-kassas to have lost almost half a million members when the crisis struck. There was also no support for short-term work. That government's priorities were clear. According to the Moderate Prime Minister, the industry was already basicly gone. The costs of the crisis had to be borne by the well-being and by the employees. We Social Democrats have chosen a different path. Since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, we have turned the government's deficit into surplus while investing in welfare and getting more people into work. This allowed us to enter this crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977 and 300 000 more people in work. We know that the industry is not basicly gone. On the contrary, it is an important key in the green transition. Perhaps we will soon experience a shortage of labour when all the green investments that are now taking place in our country become a reality. This makes it all the more important to continue to equip those who are currently without jobs with new skills. Madam President, I would like Society will be built stronger than it was before the pandemic. We will use our common strength to continue the green transition, to push back crime and to continue building a strong and equal welfare for all. Today's decision on our amending budget is an important step along this path. I will conclude by calling for approval of the proposals in both reports and wishing everyone a pleasant summer. Now someone can think we're going on summer vacation, but that's not the case. There will even be another debate in the Committee on Finance next week. However, I am not taking part in it, so I can wish you a happy summer anyway. I would like to extend my special thanks to all those with whom I have worked during the year in committee, among the staff and in the Presidium of Presidents.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-142	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation, which I forgot in my main speech. We entered the crisis with underfunded welfare, where employees often had very poor working conditions, not least in the care of the elderly. Many were fixed-term and hourly employees, they had poor wages and the activities were understaffed. Health care was also heavily underfunded. We had too few intensive care places, and the staff were worn out even before the crisis came. For the Social Democrats, it was more important to put cards in tax policy. They chose the tax policy of the right instead of investing in welfare. So important was the welfare of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like Let me take you around the country. There's a TV show on Sundays that usually sweeps over the country. I was going to do it too, but more on the basis of how the cuts in welfare continue. In Karlshamn you should save 50 million of which several millions on the children's school food. Region Västerbotten resigns health care workers when they are now saving large amounts. Region Norrbotten lacks 700 million and terminates the staff needed for the operation to function. In Halland, three health care centers are closed, and in Färgelanda, a budget of 160 million will save 11 million at school. Municipalities reduce support housing for women who are victims of violence. Region Västernorrland closes the iva-department and health care department for the elderly. In Borås, Malung, Sandviken, Nybro, yes, in almost all the country's municipalities you save at the school. In Gävle and Sundsvall there are large savings packages of several hundred million. In Gävle they even drag down on bread and fruit to the older ones. There are major cuts in welfare, and the Social Democrats have no answers to how it is to be financed.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-148	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulla Andersson for the question. It is, of course, completely impossible for me to comment on the background to all the savings that Ulla Andersson lists. I myself live in Region Stockholm. I know that the Stockholm Region is going with large surpluses but still alerted people during the pandemic for political reasons. It was a conscious political priority of right-wing rule. I cannot go through what it looks like in all other parts of the country, but I have read the reports saying that municipalities and regions have had a good economic situation compared to previous crises and indeed also compared to many other years. Municipalities and regions have also been helped by other crisis policies, as unemployment has not increased as much as it would otherwise have. This can also be seen from the fact that the number of people in need of supply aid has not increased as much as the municipalities and regions had expected in this situation. There's a lot we need to do together. One of them is opinion-forming to get more people to want more equality in our society and more money for welfare. I believe that the Social Democrats can do this together with the Left Party and anyone else who wants such a society. However, I do not believe that all people are prepared to pay higher taxes, especially with a short-term view. I do not share the view of the Left Party that the solution is always to raise taxes. There are more solutions: We will get more people into work, use the resources well and use the money properly. But tax increases can also come about if we are to cope with welfare in the future.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-154	Madam President, I would like Having been negotiating with the Social Democrats for four years, I can say that even higher taxes with long-term prospects are not relevant because it is more important to put cards in place than to invest in welfare. It is more important to protect the wallets of the rich than to ensure that the staff of the elderly have good working conditions and that the elderly receive the care they deserve and need. Yes, the government has contributed large sums to the local government sector, but it is short-term. It is not possible to stop large savings programmes in order to have a short-term addition. That's what it looks like. In Gävle, where the Social Democrats are in charge, there is a savings programme of several hundred million. There the staffing of retirement homes has been reduced, and some accommodations are now even reduced to bread and fruit. In Västerbotten and Norrbotten, the region's wallet is thin. They don't cut down on health professionals because you want to, but because you have to. Stockholm is Stockholm, and the neoliberal experiment is in full swing. I leave it out because it is an ideological reduction – unlike in many of the municipalities and regions where the Social Democrats are actually in charge. It saddens me that the Social Democrats have no answer to how to solve the long-term financing of welfare. After all, before the crisis, more was done about tax cuts than about welfare. This is what it looks like in practical politics, and it not only disappoints me but many others.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-159	Madam President, I would like I note that the Left Party is obviously critical of the fact that we reduced the tax on pensioners. I think it was important because it should be the same tax on labour as on deferred wages for work, and I am glad that this development continues. It is important for us to secure long-term resources for prosperity, and that is one of the great benefits of the January agreement. It is the same January agreement which forms the basis of the government we currently have and which the Left Party is threatening to bring down. The consequence of this may be significantly less money for the welfare of the future. I look forward to the Left Party continuing to take responsibility for securing the financing of welfare in the future and not pursuing the path it has now taken.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-162	Madam President, I would like It is clear in the debate that the feeling is that a flowertime is now coming out in society as well as in the economy and economic policy. Most things are more positive than yesterday, and we have good hope for tomorrow. However, we cannot completely shake the feeling that there are clear clouds of concern here and now in the pandemic we hope we are coming out of. We see ominous headlines about new variants and what they might mean for the rate of vaccination, the quality of vaccines and so on. This means that we must in every way continue to have a high level of preparedness and take steps to guide our country further through this Corona crisis that is not yet over. Corona management is also a strong feature of the spring amending budget on which we are debating and deciding today. It is a question of extending aid to businesses as well as individuals and of further support to the cultural sector. These are extensions and reinforcements of the crisis policy that has characterised the last year. There are still very large sums allocated to this, which is a wise investment for our country. Although we set record after record in size, scope and speed in crisis policy, Sweden is well equipped to take further steps if necessary. In spite of a very expansionary policy over the past year, government debt is not at all at an unmanageable level. So we have the muscles to continue to act if the corona situation so requires. It feels safe and good, and we can thank the wise leaders of recent generations throughout the political spectrum for Sweden being in such a secure situation. It also means that we have an important conditioning forward. If this is the case, which is very much to suggest, that the Corona crisis is starting to blow off and we can return to a more normal situation, then this political generation must also take the necessary responsibility so that we can deal with future challenges with the same financial security and self-confidence that we have done during this crisis. The spring budget now under discussion also includes some more forward-looking efforts. I am thinking not least of our young people. We must ensure that they do not have to take the hardest blow of the various consequences of the coronapndemin. What is being done in the budget is that employers' contributions for young people are being further reduced this summer. It applies to everyone up to the age of 23. It is about doing as much that can be done so that as many as possible now will come in summer jobs or be able to go to their first employment in the autumn after the upper secondary school degree or other degree. We do not want today's generation of young people to fall behind in a long-term and permanent way because of the economic consequences of the coronapandemy, and we are prepared to do everything we can not to end up there. That is why 11⁄2 billion is now being allocated in further reductions in employers' contributions to lower the thresholds, to reduce the cost of hiring young people and to give as many people as possible the chance. It is not a perfect instrument, but it is something that can be done here and now and that, when we now take decisions, actually kicks in so that the costs of hiring young people are further reduced already this year. That's good. It is also good to make the efforts that are now being made on summer courses and the like so that those who need it can pick up a knowledge gap and so that we can achieve flexibility in teaching so that as many as possible can take the chance to equip themselves and build up the knowledge needed to function in a labour market. Major efforts are being made to reduce both employers' contributions and training places precisely so that the youth generation that is now leaving high school and other things will get the best possible start on life, the pandemic in spite of. In a budget debate such as this, we allow ourselves to be a little broader than what is actually in the budget bill. That is what previous speakers have done, and I will be guilty of the same thing. This spring there has not only been a steady stream of supplementary amending budgets, but other important issues have also been dealt with within the framework of the Committee on Finance. I am thinking of the fact that we gathered a majority behind an announcement that it is now time for a transformation and a review of the municipal tax equalisation system. This is deeply unsexy but equally important. At present, we have major challenges in terms of different conditions for municipalities, not least the gap between small rural municipalities and major metropolitan municipalities. Over the past year, as part of the Corona fight, we have completely pumped billions to billions in new general state subsidies in order to maintain the core of welfare and avoid major redundancies in the local government sector. That has been right, but to be honest, it is a rather blunt tool given how the municipal tax equalisation system in all its parts works. When we increase the general state subsidies in a clear way, this means that some municipalities get a very good economic situation because they had it pretty good at first. For other types of municipalities you would actually have to do even more. The investments that come with the municipalities are not enough to plug all the holes. To solve this long-term, we need a modern and updated system that means something better conditions for all municipalities in our country to deliver long-term welfare services at a level that all Swedes have the right to make demands on. But then we need to address the basic, difficult issues. The Committee on Finance gathered around the fact that this work will start this spring, and we look forward with confidence to that being the case. When we now hopefully come out of all the consequences of the pandemic, it happens with one on the whole well-functioning Swedish economy. We see a new industrialization that sweeps over the country, not least over northern Sweden, which is gratifying for a representative of Västernorrland. There's a lot of investment in the new, in the green. It is indeed a new generation of Swedish industrialization that we now see. This is an incredibly interesting stage in economic policy, because it has a bearing on infrastructure and other spending as well as on long-term fiscal policy and how we prepare the ground for further investment. It is important to continue with what has been happening in recent decades, when Sweden, under both red and blue-green governments, has become increasingly positive in terms of entrepreneurship and increasingly friendly in terms of investment. This policy must continue. We have to say no to large restorers and increases in tax on jobs, entrepreneurship and investment. On the contrary, when space and opportunity are given, we must continue to make Sweden an even better country for investment, business and job creation. Politics matters. If we had not seen the adjustment of entrepreneurial taxes, taxes on capital and the like and the adjustment in the entrepreneurial direction that has taken place in recent decades, we would not have been able to enter the Corona crisis with such strong public finances. Then we would not have seen the wave of industrialisation that is now sweeping over the country, because politics matters. If you slowly and steadily make Sweden a better country for investment and entrepreneurship, it will over time mean that there will be more of that product. That is what we are seeing now, and it is very positive. Let us continue to strengthen Sweden as an entrepreneurial country when space is given. Let us further strengthen Sweden as a country where investments are made and ensure that you can make an entire journey from small company to billion-dollar companies in Sweden, based in Sweden, without the owners having to move from here because of tax rules like those we had during parts of the 20th century, for example in the 70s and 80s. Sometimes you have to say that things actually get much better. In the case of Sweden as an entrepreneur country and as a country for investment, the last few decades have been a journey in the right direction. Let's continue with it. Madam President, I would like We are now entering the best time in our country. It's light. Where I live, it's bright 24 hours a day. It's amazing. Let us now hope that the clear bright signs in the Swedish economy too will be valid for some time to come. It has been a very tough time both economically and humanly when we have handled the very tough coronapndemine, which we still do. On the whole, we have done a good job together in Sweden. Let us now continue all the way into the tile and hope that this autumn we can meet in a completely different and common way and return to concerts, culture and things that make life worth living. This is what I hope will come back after the summer. Before that, I hope that both the Finance Committee and its secretariat and the Presidium of Presidents will have a few weeks off when Sweden is at its best.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-182	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emil Källström, for both speech and good cooperation during the pandemic! I've appreciated it. Together with the government, Parliament has been able to make a wide range of improvements in various support along this journey. I would say that many of these improvements have taken place despite, not thanks to, the government. There has been an approach to entrepreneurship where Emil Källström and I have been much more in agreement than Emil Källström have been with the government. I therefore believe that cooperation with the Riksdag has been important. At the same time, outputs or how the proposals have been put into practice have sometimes left quite a lot to be desired. It's been a twitching. There have been long processing times. It has been difficult for companies to find out what applies. Often there have been difficult situations. For companies, it has sometimes been like one of those toasters who for some reason are in finer hotels. You put your bread in it, and then you have no idea when something will come out on the other side or whether the bread has survived at all. I think that feeling sums it up for many entrepreneurs. I would like Emil Källström to reflect on this. How can we do better in terms of business support, and what opportunities are there now to further improve it? Emil Källström here talks about the possibility of moving from a small company to a billion company. Emil Källström and the Center Party agree with the government on a tax reform. The Government Party The Social Democrats have reported a large number of increased taxes on virtually everything that moves or works. How is this to be contained in such a tax reform?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-187	Madam President, I would like I realize I've spent far too little time in fancy hotels with spectacular toasters. It was an illustration that I could not quite take to heart. But I think the point was made anyway. I'll start with the last one. As far as the tax reform is concerned, a small pandemic got in the way. This work would actually have been at a completely different stage by now. But the tax reform has never been a vehicle where the Center Party and the Social Democrats would primarily agree, but it was much wider than that and is much wider than that. If there is to be a major tax reform in Sweden, which I personally think would be wise, where one looks at how a modern tax system with current or scarcely less total tax revenue could be designed, one needs to achieve a much broader layout than C and S. That's where KD and M need to be involved. The more parties, the better so to speak. It is far too early, then, to say what negotiations there will ultimately be of a long tax reform effort where work has not yet started. But I hope for broad collaboration among as many parties as possible when it comes to Sweden getting a new and modern tax system. As far as crisis policy is concerned, I can only give Jakob Forssmed the right answer. There has been an interaction between the Riksdag and the Government, and initiatives have been taken in both the Government Office and the Finance Committee. Not infrequently, the Center Party has been in both of these rooms and has worked in both arenas, both as a budget negotiator and as a parliamentary party. It is my view that it has served both the Center Party and Sweden well.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-191	Madam President, I would like As far as taxes and tax reform are concerned, it is clear to me that there is a great conflict in Swedish politics around taxes, where non-socialist bourgeois parties have a vision and where social democrats and left-wing parties have a different view. In the past, there was something that used to be called a green tax exchange, an increase in certain taxes on environmentally harmful activities and a reduction in taxes on labour. Now what is being put forward by the intended government partner that Emil Källström's party wants to rule with, the Social Democrats, is rather a red black change. It's taxation on everything that works and everything that grows. It's new capital tax, it's tighter 3:12 rules, both increased tax rate and strong restrictions, it's increased tax on unlisted shares, it's cap on ISK, and ISK should be severely limited, it's doubled bank tax and it's even about removing the job tax deduction's driving forces to work. It is also a question of significantly lowering the ceiling on the square, and there are more proposals in this direction. It's a tax on everything that grows and moves. I think that a proposal is often drawn up and said: how can you agree on this proposal in this coalition? That is the case in all collaborations. But there should be some kind of common direction to make the policy work. This is a list that Magdalena Andersson has developed on what she wants to implement. I have noticed that several members of the Center Party have been out saying that they want a new January agreement. Then must something from this list be included in such an agreement? It is difficult to see that the Social Democrats would abstain from the whole list just to settle again on a new January agreement. Of course, it would be interesting to hear how Emil Källström views this list of proposed tax increases.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-195	Madam President, I would like I think that Jakob Forssmed is guilty of a little too much eagerness here, to jump to the end point too early. First of all, I am required to respond to the final outcome of a tax reform before the process has even begun. Now Jakob Forssmed has also decided how the election movement will end. The Center Party is therefore going to elections with a very broad and open mandate and can imagine a number of different constellations after the next election depending on what happens when the voters have said theirs. But let us just reflect here a little bit on what happened after the last election. So to speak, it is not entirely new that the Social Democrats and other parties on the left want to raise taxes. It is a pattern that has characterized a very long time in Swedish politics. The post-election constellation, as we all know, meant a social democratic government. But there was no tax increase agenda. The negotiations, in which the Center Party was very driven, which landed in a January agreement have meant a lower tax burden in Sweden than it was at the beginning of the term of office. We have therefore reduced taxes on labour, reduced taxes on pensioners and reduced taxes on businesses. We have therefore reduced the tax in many ways, and now we are approaching a tax burden that is roughly in line with where Sweden was after eight years with an alliance government. Nevertheless, I think that the Centre Party's results in stopping unwise tax increases and also negotiating tax cuts are quite strong after this term of office. Now Jakob Forssmed does not have the opportunity to answer, but I am absolutely convinced that he would agree with me on this point.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-199	Madam President, I would like It is an ongoing process of liberalising and changing the leasing system, and I think it is good to start with new production and introduce a model that can be gradually implemented in the existing stock. So said Ola Johansson when the JÖK was negotiated and ready. It has also recently been repeated. That's how it's come to be. For me, as for a large majority of the Swedish people and the Centre Party's own voters, it is difficult to understand this feeling of shock to raise people's rents. Because that's what it's really about. Real estate owners placed an order. That's it. The Center Party is the extended arm of property owners and delivers with the Social Democrats as obedient minions. It abolishes the model that has existed in the Swedish housing market, where two parties negotiate the rent. One party is no longer allowed to sit at the negotiating table. Higher rents for tenants throughout the country, lower security for all tenants when the property protection is completely undermined, increased housing segregation and overcrowding is a brief summary of the Center Party's reform with market rents. It could also be added that it will cost taxpayers a lot of money, as housing subsidies will have to be increased significantly – money directly from taxpayers down in the property owners' pockets. Housing allowances would be about eight times more expensive if market rents were introduced in new production and then there would be market rents throughout the stock. That is what happened in Finland. My question to the Centre Party's Emil Källström is: Why this urge to shock raise people's rents and the state's costs of housing allowances, such an urge that you want to trigger a government crisis?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-206	Madam President, I would like If Ulla Andersson could mention a single person whose rent is increased if the investigation proposal, which then becomes a bill, goes through and becomes a reality, I promise to donate 1,000 SEK to a charity that Ulla Andersson chooses.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-207	Madam President, I would like I notice that Emil Källström continues on the course Annie Lööf was on, namely that this is a proposal that will have no impact at all. Yet you are prepared to cause a government crisis in order to implement the proposal, Emil Källström. Your own housing policy spokesperson says that this is the first step towards introducing market rents throughout the stock. So is the Property Owners' model, and that is the model you have taken to this investigation. In countries where free renting, as it is so beautiful, has been introduced into new production, market rents have since had to be continued throughout the stock. Actually, that's what it looks like. It is not possible to have two completely different models alongside each other. When this was introduced in Finland they first had free renting in new production, and after four years they became market rents in the whole stock. As far as we know, it also looks like that wherever this has been done around the world. In Finland, this meant an average increase of 26 per cent. In Helsinki, the increase was as much as 40 per cent. The tenant association has made its own calculations showing the same development here: between 20 and 30 per cent in Gävle, in Stockholm 40– 50 per cent. This means several thousands for an ordinary worker to push out with in increased rent costs. It will have major consequences – and it will not lead to the building up of the housing shortage, as the Center also claims. It shows its own investigation, and it shows previous investigations. It is de facto the case that market rents and housing shortages are muddy for property owners. Why this buzz to shock raise people's rents, Emil Källström? Why do you want to cause a government crisis?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-212	Madam President, I would like If Ulla Andersson had known of a single person whose rent will be increased if the proposal is implemented, she would of course have said so, I imagine. She would then have had the opportunity to donate SEK 1 000 to the Cuba Committee, or whatever Ulla Andersson had chosen. This is a step towards creating a more reasonable housing market where, in fact, more rental apartments will also be built in the long term. What we are doing here is, of course, to some extent to save the rental right, because the rental right is endangered precisely because residential builders do not build rental apartments. Other things are being built – residential and owner-occupied apartments – but what we are now trying to create is a more modern system where more rental apartments are actually being built, so that the rental right can be the form of housing that people can find quickly and that can create the mobility in the housing market that we need. There is an enormous amount of intimidation propaganda coming from Ulla Andersson and the Left Party. It is unclear why we need to increase the tone so to the mild degree of this proposal, which, moreover, has been fundamentally known for several years. This is a small part of creating a more reasonable housing market where more housing is built, where housing is available and where we can create greater mobility and flexibility in the housing market. It's about people being able to take that job or that place of education so that the economy can work as well as possible. That is what we are trying to achieve. The Left Party is the main defender of the status quo. Everything you do and all the energy you put into it is about preserving the current system, where people line up for decades to get a place to live. How can you defend the situation we're in right now? It makes no sense to me. It is also incomprehensible that a government crisis is being threatened in order to maintain a dysfunctional system in the housing market. This is not the way to act if you are serious, and I certainly do not hope that any other party jumps on this charade.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-216	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all those who work in health care, all those who work in school and all those who have made heroic contributions to our country under the coronapandemy. I would like to thank all the entrepreneurs who have fought, worked and sweated for their life's work to remain despite the fact that a virus has run across the globe. Many people have struggled, and this has meant that many people have helped to save jobs and secure welfare – and not least to save lives. I would like to thank you very much for the efforts you have made. Madam President, I would like I feel that many Swedes are incredibly tired of political pie throwing, political games and political tactizing. I feel that you are tired of politicians who most review others, criticize others and constantly seek political conflict and try to speak ill of their political opponents. Unfortunately, this debate too has had some of this. Sweden is good at crisis management. This is not the time to stand and say that the Alliance Government's management of the financial crisis was poor. That was great! Sweden went through the financial crisis stronger than most other countries around Europe and around the West. To then stand and criticize other parties for having handled it wrong, I think, is a blow below the belt. In the same way, I do not think today is the right time to stand and criticise the crisis work that the government and the Riksdag have done together. We have also done so in an exemplary and good way. Of course, not everything has been wonderful, fantastic or right – there are of course errors that have been committed – but overall, Swedish politics and the Riksdag are good at dealing with economic crises. We did so during the financial crisis, and we have now dealt with the Corona crisis in a way that many other countries probably envy. We have been able to do so because for a long time, not least during the previous bourgeois government, we have taken responsibility for the finances of the state. Red-green governments have also taken responsibility for state finances so that we have a low level of public debt, which can be used during the crisis to secure welfare and secure jobs. I think that we all need to take responsibility for not getting stuck in the political pie-throwing but trying to solve the social problems Sweden has and release the political prestige. Madam President, I would like There is an area linked to the Corona crisis that I am deeply concerned about and very concerned about, and that is the school. It is not the same to sit in front of a screen as to meet the teacher in the classroom. It is not the same that the days are sitting alone at home on the couch, in bed or perhaps at a desk compared to meeting your friends at school and getting the exchange it means to be in a classroom. It's not the same. We now see a corona generation of children and young people who do not learn enough in school. I am afraid we will see major long-term consequences of young people not being in school, and the corona generation risks living with long-term if we do not take strong action. That is why it is important that this budget includes a great deal of investment in schools. It is important that we ensure that those who have fallen behind have the opportunity to use summer holidays to catch up. It is important that we ensure that the school remains strong even after the crisis, so that the study results in Swedish schools can be increased. We are already seeing how about one student in six leaves comprehensive school without a complete grade. That's an alarmingly high figure. The school needs to focus more on knowledge and less on flum. The school needs to focus on studyo and make sure to steer up the mess. We need to give teachers better powers, and we need to ensure that teachers have the strength and the opportunity to do their work in the classroom. We need to give more support to those students who need more support, and we need to make sure that those students who are in an easy position can take the lead and be stimulated. We need to see each individual and every student, and it needs to be a school of knowledge and study. This is the only way we can ensure that Swedish schools are built strong. It is not that Swedish school gets better if we adopt some postmodern theory or think that we can solve everything by the children using Ipadar during the day. Instead, it's about going back to basics. What once built Swedish school strong is what will build Swedish school strong later. Madam President, I would like I am incredibly impressed by Swedish entrepreneurs. When we hopefully soon get through the crisis – we do not know that, but economically we seem to be through the crisis in many places – we see that Swedish entrepreneurs, big and small, are incredibly dynamic and modern. They are at the forefront of digitalisation. We see that many entrepreneurs have changed, whether it is a company in the restaurant industry or a service company that develops new digital technologies. You've had an incredible ability to change. Over the past ten or fifteen years we have seen in Sweden a fantastic development of new, growing companies. I can mention Klarna, Northvolt and Izettle, to take three new companies. But I can also mention older companies that have developed fantastically in recent years – Atlas Copco and Nibe, to take two examples. This shows the strength of the Swedish economy. It is an incredible ability to change and an incredible ability to create new jobs in Sweden. This has been possible because wise politicians, some red-green, removed inheritance and gift tax. And the alliance government removed the wealth tax and carried out a number of important job reforms that have made the Swedish business environment quite good. When someone who sells their company on the American continent gets a lot of money and reinvests the money in Sweden instead of hiding the money in Luxembourg or Switzerland, it creates jobs in Sweden. New companies can grow with the help of having a better business environment. What we are now seeing is the Swedish left that is moving forward with a strong left-wing populism under a slogan and rhetoric that you want to tax the millionaires. Then we are talking about the reintroduction of property tax, the reintroduction of inheritance and gift tax and, most recently, the proposal to introduce increased savings tax. The rhetoric is about millionaires, but it is the broad middle class that will have to pay. It is people who are hardworking, who go to work every day and who want to build a better future for their family and children who will pay for this party. This is not how we build Sweden stronger. Madam President, I would like Should Sweden in this situation be able to go stronger, we will focus less on political games and political pie throwing and more on solving Sweden's problems. Sweden is a fantastic country but also a country with major social problems. Every sixth student leaves school without a full grade. We see growing gaps between the one who has a job and the one who lacks a job. We see a growing gang crime that is creeping closer and becoming increasingly brutal in its practice of violence. We see an energy policy that means that where I live, in southern Sweden, it is an electricity crisis. There is a shortage of electricity in Sweden in 2021, because there are ideological blind spots in the view of nuclear power. Sweden needs a new road in area after area, and in area after area we need to jointly focus less on pie throwing and more on solving social problems. I think the most important thing we can do is to ensure that our entrepreneurs can hire and that the school works so that Sweden can lift up so that we get through this crisis in a stronger way.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-235	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, my husband and I beat it up with finfika. We thought we had reason to buy home a little lemon tint. The reason was that we both got our first shot. It was a feeling of gratitude to be able to live in a country that has been able to accumulate in this crisis, in a world that has been able to produce in record time a vaccine that gives us hope of coping with the pandemic that we are still living in. It awes what humans can accomplish when we do it together. That's what this pandemic has shown. In a crisis like this, it is extremely important to be able to do what is needed both here and now. Many Swedish companies and authorities and the cooperation between the Government and the Riksdag have largely managed to do so. We have made many important efforts. Evaluations will show that it has not been perfect. There have been shortcomings in the regulations that have been developed in haste. For good reason, many companies have been frustrated when they have not received enough clear information or money quickly enough. But overall, the effort is impressive. We have also made clear efforts for those most affected. One thing that has proved effective is to increase the housing allowance. It is a reliable contribution for those with the most economically weak situation in Sweden in general. It is therefore a good thing that we decide today to introduce an increase in the housing allowance. SKR reports that it has made a difference, in the sense that fewer people need to apply for municipal support. It is an important thing for the finances of municipalities but also for the people themselves. Stability is a good way to get back on your feet. In a crisis, it is also important to look forward and use the change that is taking place to develop society, to strengthen digitalisation, to make a green transition and to invest in the future, in hope for the future. What is happening in northern Sweden now, the green industrial revolution that we see beginning to grow and that will generate investments in a lot of new housing and opportunities for green community development, is incredibly inspiring and fascinating. It is innovative companies, both new and old, that gather there. But it is important to remember that it is essentially based on the combination of a policy with clear climate objectives, so that companies know what they have to deal with, and a policy that lays the foundations for investment with concrete support such as the Industrial Sector. One thing I really look forward to seeing the effects of is the green credit guarantees, which will be introduced in Sweden. It is something that has existed in other countries. We in Sweden are good at eco-innovations, and the public has long been good at supporting pilot projects and ideas. But we have released the green innovations too soon. That time when an innovation is not really on its own but may have the potential to reach a global market is called the valley of death in innovation circles. There the green credit guarantees will play a role. They're for those ideas that we know work. They have made it through the pilots and can take the leap out into a global market, such as future ball bearings and future ABBA success. There are those who lie down. These are major investments that we will now be able to support with a credit guarantee. We can see that in other countries it is of great importance for companies that work together their financial solutions that one state goes in and actively supports. This will be of great importance for investments to end up in Sweden. There are many cases where Swedish innovations have become major industrial investments in other countries. We can't do that without our innovation power and our research going to be a job here. That's the way it could be. There we have something very positive and exciting to look forward to. Me and the Environmental Party are convinced that this is how we invest in the Swedish economy and create Swedish jobs forward. An important thing in a crisis is of course that we create the conditions for companies to invest so that they can hire more. The absolute worst thing is if a group is excluded from long-term exclusion. We must prevent that by all means we have. Another important part of such an initiative is, of course, education. The wide-ranging efforts made on education and training are now extremely important. It is important that young people who have spent almost half their high school time in front of a screen and have not really had the chance to get good grades get a second chance to get the qualifications they need to get on in life. It is also important for all new arrivals. In this part, we believe that it is important to work individually and make the right contribution for the right person. It is also important for the state to assume all its responsibilities, and there we see that there is more to be done in the future. It is important that the government invests in and develops our systems. An exciting innovation hiding in the budget is the national public transport card. There we have an anomaly as to how our administrative systems operate with regional public transport leaders, who work very well, and a travel that is generally more and more taking place across regional borders. You have a habit of travelling collectively, but when you come to a new city I find it quite difficult to find the right app and find out what applies. With a national public transport card, we won't have to do that. Then we will be able to have a single system. When I go home – because I still feel – to Malmö I will be able to use the same app or system that I use in my everyday life here in Stockholm. This will strengthen public transport, and it needs it. Public transport is one of the sectors that has been hit very hard now during the crisis. It needs a fresh start, and it needs to find a new identity. I do not think that we will accept being squeezed into public transport in the way that was normal before the pandemic. Public transport is an important part of the work to achieve a sustainable transport system so that we can achieve our climate goals, and then a national commitment to public transport is important in the future. The national card is part of this; it is not what will conjure up a strong public transport system across the country, but it is part of making it more attractive forward. Part of the great work is the green transition, which consists of many small measures. I know that there are some people who want to see that one can do big things and solve the climate crisis with individual measures. It won't be like that. It's not working. We are going to change the whole society's economy, and it will affect all companies and all sectors. It is a broad work that is required, with many small parts and many actors contributing. Madam President, I would like I want to end with something that I got to see yesterday and that pleased me and gives me a picture of what I think about Sweden's economy forward. That is what this debate is about in my eyes. It is about LRF having compiled how Swedish farmers use Climate Change to invest in their companies. I don't think that many people have thought that Klimatklivet is a support for Swedish farmers, but Swedish farmers have seen the opportunity in a broad support. The climate life is completely neutral. Anyone who has the best idea for an investment that lowers climate emissions will get part of the money. It competes entirely between the sectors. Many Swedish farmers have seen an opportunity here. They have applied for and received support for new machinery, biogas plants and other climate investments that strengthen their companies. This is, for me, a lot about the essence of the green transition and the importance of presenting neutral policy instruments that open up an innovation force and meet the will for change that exists in Sweden and the readiness for action that we have shown during the pandemic. It gives me hope for the future and hope for Sweden. With this, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee, the committee secretariat and the President's Bureau and wish everyone a pleasant summer. We are not going to stop working properly yet, but since then there are opportunities to rest and enjoy the beautiful Swedish nature. I support the committee's proposal in both reports.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-255	Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog talks about hope. But not in a single word does she mention all the 200 000 people who are currently long-term unemployed. Many of them feel no hope at all, and when they read the budget presented today, they hardly feel any more hope. Karolina Skog does not mention in one word what the government intends to do about the high level of long-term unemployment. She does not mention in one word that the Employment Service says that within six months there is a risk of 300 000 people not having a job. As I mentioned earlier, this is about huge costs for society. If only one in ten long-term unemployed were in work, Sweden could have 8,000 more nurses. That's the cost of unemployment. But above all, it is about people – people who have lost hope and who do not have a job to go to. They do not even have contact with Arbetsförmedlingen, because Arbetsförmedlingen does not actively work with many of the people who today are long-term unemployed. I would really like to ask Karolina Skog what concrete measures the government has in the budget to enable the long-term unemployed to feel hope and return to the labour market. I mentioned several of the efforts and proposals of the Moderates to halve long-term unemployment in three years. But I don't see anything in this budget. Now I would like to give Karolina Skog the opportunity to mention three or five concrete measures that can give hope, but above all jobs, to those who are long-term unemployed.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-261	Madam President, I would like You may note that I am speaking without a script in this House. The reason I do that is because I think it's important to adapt to what's happening in the room. I don't want to write my lines in advance, as Elisabeth Svantesson seems to have done. I mentioned the group of long-term unemployed in my speech and said a few words about what I think. I did not mention the whole Green Party plan for this group, but I mentioned it in my speech. Of course it is possible to check afterwards. What I said, and I am happy to repeat, is that I believe that our action against long-term unemployment needs to be made up of different elements. I am absolutely convinced that the most important part is education. Looking at the measures put forward by the government and the cooperation parties to curb the effects of the pandemic and beyond, it can be seen that there is a broad and strengthened range of training measures. The fact that there are more training places, I would say, is by far the most important thing. Then there are some other key elements, such as the investment in further education in the care of the elderly. It is an important initiative, and it is important for elderly care. It is also about creating entry into the labour market for those who do not have a long education. They can qualify for care for the elderly and receive on-the-spot training. To bring about such types of systems are some examples of what we are doing to curb long-term unemployment in Sweden.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-266	Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog is welcome to read my line. I have not written anything about you not mentioning the long-term unemployed. But the problem was that this was not about long-term unemployment at all. Although one of Sweden's biggest economic problems right now is that people are outside the labour market, Karolina Skog does not mention this problem and how these people should get into work. When I read the government budget, which Karolina Skog is a basis for, I see that it is more of the same policy that has led Sweden to become one of the worst countries in Europe when it comes to unemployment. That is exactly the policy you want to pursue. There is no conflict in terms of education. Education is, of course, good; let me say it. But it takes so much more for these people. I'll mention a few things. Ensure a functioning labour market policy with effective measures! Lower the cost of hiring those furthest away! You have halved the number of new start jobs, which were and are one of the most effective efforts. Make sure to increase the drive to work! Many people who have immigrated to Sweden are now long-term unemployed; it is the largest group. Make sure you have a grant cap and a job premium so that you can keep more of your salary! Make sure that Arbetsförmedlingen works actively with internships! These, too, have been dramatically reduced during your time in the government. These are just a few examples of what could give the long - term unemployed hope and jobs — their own income. And why is this so important? Why do I get so upset when the Green Party doesn't even seem to see the problem? Because this is about people's future but also about our common economy. You would not need to have so many proposals for tax increases if you took up this issue. Make sure to push back unemployment! Then you give people a job, and you give more money to the Treasury.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-274	Madam President, I would like I remember correctly what I said was that one of the most important things in this type of economic crisis is to ensure that we do not get a group that gets caught up in exclusion in the form of long-term unemployment – perhaps not exactly but something like that. And I really mean it. That is an extremely important thing. One thing I think when I look forward that we need to do better in Sweden is to individualise the establishment efforts more. I think we are dealing with people who come to Sweden too flat, as if they were the same. They're not. It is a heterogeneous group that should receive different treatment. The Green Party has worked to ensure that efforts for new arrivals are made earlier, such as those for languages. We want to continue that kind of reform agenda where we are directing action to the individual in the right place. Some should have a fast track into the academy, because that's where they have the best conditions. Others need to learn the alphabet, because that's where they stand. They have a longer road to self-sufficiency, and we have to admit it and get to grips with it. It is one of the things that the Green Party wants to reform when we look at the labour market and the efforts of the groups that are furthest from it.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-278	Madam President, I would like The Green Party will go to elections to combat child poverty. That's very good. It's really needed. Hundreds of thousands of people in Sweden live in financial vulnerability. Many of them are children. Around every city and every municipality there are people who can't even afford the most relevant, the most important, that is, food and rent – families where children's dream of new clothes for school graduation remains just a dream and where a new cycle is something you will never see. Children who live in financial vulnerability are affected by it throughout their lives. It affects their school outcomes, and it affects their health – even in adult life. For me, it becomes incomprehensible that the Green Party wants to introduce market rents. How would shock - raising rents combat child poverty?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-281	Madam President, I would like I am both saddened and happy by Ulla Andersson's question. Ulla Andersson here implicates something and makes up an agenda that does not exist. However, I am pleased because it gives me the opportunity to be clear. I also have a very clear Minister for Housing in my back. The Green Party does not believe in market rents. The Green Party will not introduce market rents. The Minister for Housing has promised that as long as she has that post, market rents will not be introduced in Sweden. The reason, of course, is that we simply do not believe in that model. We believe that in the long run it would lead to higher rents. On the contrary, we see that public governance in the housing market as a whole needs to increase. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I must highlight the way in which the Left Party distorts the agenda of other parties and thus also frightens many tenants in Sweden. I am convinced that many are now sitting at home and actually believe and are afraid that their rent will be increased. Then it is still good that we now have the opportunity to be clear: no one will get a shock-height rent. There is one point in the January agreement that is about changing the renting process in new production. An investigation has been carried out for referrals. Point.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-285	Madam President, I would like After all, we are not the ones who frighten the tenants; you are the ones who do so with this proposal. Are you saying that the Tenants' Association and all the tenants who see through the proposal are completely wrong? What evidence would the Tenants' Association have to try to deceive their tenants, the ones they represent? If Karolina Skog could tell me, that would be good. I think Karolina Skog knows that both the Centers and Liberals and Property owners see this as the first step in introducing market rents throughout the stock. That is quite obvious, because, as far as I know, no country has been able to maintain two such separate systems. In Finland, for example, as I told you earlier, this meant rent increases of 26 per cent. In Gävle this would mean 1 500 – 2 000 SEK more per month. The people we are talking about when we say that child poverty should be combated will not get increased wages by 1 500 – 2 000 SEK a month. Child benefit and housing allowance will not be increased. Well, housing allowances have to be increased. That's what happened in Finland. Four years after the introduction of free renting in new production, there were market rents in the entire dwelling stock, and the costs of housing allowances were running out. Should we translate Finland into Sweden, the costs would increase by eight times per tenant. This means about 35 billion straight into the property owners' pockets. It would not make it any better for the children who are forced to live in the apartments with these shock-height rents. Maybe they won't even be able to live there. That is what market rents are about: to shock people's rents against people's will.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-288	Madam President, I would like We have a green housing minister in the Swedish government who has given a very clear message: As long as she holds the post, market rents will not be introduced in Sweden. What goes beyond my understanding is how the Left Party and Ulla Andersson can think that if you dismiss that minister and open up to perhaps a bourgeois government that will work with the support of the Swedish Democrats, it would give a clearer reassuring message to Sweden's tenants about a better housing market where the state and the municipality are more active in improving the housing market. For me, that doesn't make any sense.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-290	Madam President, I would like If one landed here in the Swedish Parliament from outer space in one of the craft that the US authorities in various reports claim exist and listened to Karolina Skog's speech, one might think that we have very limited problems in Sweden – except in public transport. There we have big problems, to be solved with an app. I share Karolina Skog's image that we have problems with public transport, and this app is certainly great. But reality points to attention. We have long-term unemployment, which is at risk of growing strongly and of becoming entrenched at sky-high levels. As a result, people's curtains are not drawn up in the morning; instead, they end up in a very long alienation. It causes social and physical and health problems that can last for a long time and affect the whole family's life situation. We have a health care situation where health professionals do not know when to get recovery and where the government obviously does not have a plan for how to handle all postponed treatments and operations and all the care that has not been sought during the pandemic. There are no answers to this in the Government's Spring Bill, or in the Budget Bill for that matter. We have a security situation in which people are concerned and where people's lives are restricted by organised crime that terrifies entire residential areas. What is Karolina Skog's response to these challenges and these problems? There is not a single new approach in this spring bill to meet, for example, long-term unemployment. It is more of the same policy that has not worked so far.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-295	Madam President, I would like It is obviously difficult to be so clear in the speaker's chair that everyone hears. I am concerned about the risk that we will end up in the situation that we were in during the time when a bourgeois government was dealing with an economic crisis, because that led to us having groups that ended up very far from the labour market. These are groups which, in fact, are still characterised by the awkwardness that existed and the wrong priorities that were set at the time. I have had that in mind throughout this crisis, and that is one of the reasons for the focus that has been on saving as many jobs as possible during the crisis but also on moving forward. Because that's what I really believe in, that we dare to look to the future and see the jobs that may exist in the future in Sweden. It is the leadership that Sweden needs and that makes companies grow, invest and hire more, including in the group of long-term unemployed. I am absolutely convinced that this is the most important thing for Sweden. It is also what lays the foundation for us to be able to afford prosperity at the level we expect – the care we expect and the care of the elderly that our old ones are worth. There are great needs in welfare, and we are investing in welfare. We will need even greater efforts. I have no new recipe, because I think it is money for municipalities and regions that will work. I believe that it is the public sector that should own and manage care and care for the elderly, and then they need funds to be able to hire more people. Actually, I don't think it's more complicated than that.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-300	Madam President, I would like It is clear to me that we need to use far more tools than those presented by Karolina Skog here in the line shift if we are to tackle the high unemployment rate. I believe that the Alliance Government made several mistakes during its period, but it was also the case that the OECD evaluated the Alliance Government, and representatives of the OECD said after the financial crisis that it is difficult to see that it could have acted better than the Alliance Government did. I am happy to pay tribute to some of the crisis policy that this government has stood for. We did not have a lay-off system in place during the last financial crisis. The Alliance government took the initiative that we produced one, and the government has introduced it. It has been extremely important. At the same time, I have pointed out on many occasions that it has not provided the same protection for those who are the weakest in the labour market, the temporary workers. It is because of a rule that Karolina Skog added to this system, which did not exist originally and which I believe has been very harmful and has also made it more difficult and the way back further for some on the Swedish labour market. The efforts that Karolina Skog points to – where is the evidence that they have an effect? We know that if we double the subsidies for new jobs, more people will get those jobs, and those jobs will lead to more real jobs eventually. It's been tried since before, and we know it works. Why, then, does the government choose not to use such tools but instead to invest more in extra services that do not have those effects? I think Karolina Skog often signals pragmatism, and I think that is very good. But pragmatism is also about reconsidering, trying new things and putting aside what has not worked out in terms of unemployment, crime or whatever it may be. It is a question of trying new things and, above all, of the major, real reforms that are now required. I asked about the unemployment side, and now I ask instead about the safety side. What are your major reforms to tackle Swedish organised crime?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-306	Madam President, I would like The whole solution for tackling unemployment or security can Jakob found in other debates than here in the policy debate. I am happy to come back to this, because we have a great deal to say in those parts. As far as unemployment is concerned, I believe that the group we need to focus a lot on is the newly arrived women. That's where the extra services work well. They are a good step for that group, and that is why we are sticking to that reform. As far as security is concerned, I would like to say that in addition to what is being done for more police officers and stronger authorities, we need to focus more on the fact that crime is actually about money. We need to follow the money and strengthen the ability of the authorities to cooperate and follow the money to the core in order to break down the possibilities of making money, because that is the core of crime. There we can do much more through effective cooperation between authorities and by involving more authorities in the work. The police are important, but they can't solve this on their own. We need to have a broader job to crack organised crime and therefore much of the serious violence that affects far too many people today.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-310	Madam President, I would like We have now spent over a year of economic policy on crisis management, and finally we are beginning to see the light, not least thanks to the vaccines. Karolina Skog was able to celebrate the first shot yesterday, and I have now had the opportunity during the debate to book my second vaccine syringe. There are no vacancies yet, but we are waiting for that. The danger is not over, so it is important that we endure for a while. But syringe for syringe now returns the feeling that we are going to get through this pandemic. During the spring, the government has continued to extend and strengthen crisis measures in a large number of additional amending budgets. I would like to stress once again how important it has been to cooperate for the best interests of Sweden across party boundaries and between employers and workers in order to get crisis measures in place as quickly as possible. This shows an underlying strength in Sweden for Swedish democracy and for the Swedish labour market model. From the government's side, economic crisis management is guided by a few simple principles. The first has been to ensure the necessary resources to combat the infection, to care for the sick and to protect groups at risk. Of course, more money can't solve everything, but when money can make a difference, it should be there. The second principle has been to save Swedish jobs. To give viable companies an opportunity to overwinter, tax money has been made available to an unprecedented extent in Swedish history. With measures such as short-term lay-off, conversion aid, turnover aid, rental aid and liquidity support via the tax account, many companies have made it through this crisis. Over half a million employees have been able to be short-term rather than at risk of unemployment. Aid has cost taxpayers enormous amounts, but it has also saved hundreds of thousands of workers from the risk of unemployment. Even when the crisis broke out, I was clear that no responsible politician can promise to save all jobs and businesses in such a deep crisis. The third principle, therefore, has been to ensure security and change for those who still lose their jobs. In Sweden, the person who loses his job must have a safe insurance policy that protects against a private economic disaster, whether it is due to the pandemic, a factory fire or that the employer's business is no longer profitable. Anyone who becomes unemployed should of course meet both clear demands and good opportunities to move on to the next job. That is why we have strengthened the unemployment fund but also continued the substantial expansion of training places. Madam President, I would like The crisis measures have made a difference. That Sweden's bnp decreased in 2020 was inevitable, but the bnp is clearly smaller than in many other countries. The scope for action in public finances remains great because we held back the demand to spend 100 billion a month on companies which, many of them, were not at all in crisis, but also because we have been saving in the barns during the good years so that we could enter the crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977. If we look at the number of bankruptcies, we can see that it was lower than normal last year, although of course it increased in the most affected industries. We also see that the share of municipalities in the cost of financial assistance has remained largely at a standstill during this crisis. This means that the very large contributions that the government has made to school, health care and care for the elderly have been used for that very purpose and not to support people who have lost their jobs. Madam President, I would like In the labour market, the picture is divided into two. On the one hand, despite a historic crisis, the employment rate has remained at a historically high level. It's higher than when the government took office. If we look at labour market participation, we see that it has even increased during the crisis. On the other hand, groups that have a weaker position in the labour market – young people, born outside Europe, those who lack upper secondary skills or have a disability that makes it more difficult in the labour market – have become even more difficult since the crisis struck. Unfortunately, I have to say that there is a strange view of jobs. Many seem to think that the Swedish labour market will be more similar to that of other EU countries. This shows that the challenge has not been fully understood, either in Swedish or in the European labour market and, above all, how they differ. When I meet my fellow European finance ministers, I am told that they are struggling to get people started looking for jobs. Many, especially women, have left the labour market. Therefore, even if the countries' unemployment rates look better, it is precisely because they have given up. Rather, one is supported by one's mate or parents. The kind of labour market – where unemployment is kept down by women leaving the labour market or by adult children sitting at home and being supported by their parents – Sweden should not lag behind. Moreover, if we had an average European labour market, it would mean that half a million fewer Swedes would go to work every morning. Since Stefan Löfven became state minister, the government has instead pursued a policy that has contributed to 350 000 more people coming to work before the pandemic, of which 100 000 in welfare. That is the policy we are now going to pursue. We will ensure that more people get to work. We are going to fight unemployment by getting more people into work, not by hiding people in the statistics. What, then, is the road to work? The first and most urgent is that we should not roll back crisis policy too quickly. We are now seeing a lightening of the economy. However, the situation is still uncertain, and many industries are having an extremely tough time. The government and the cooperation parties have therefore agreed to extend the emergency measures until October. And, of course, we continue to monitor the situation very closely to see what measures are well balanced. The second is that we should invest where jobs can and will grow. We will bring forward and speed up as many investments as possible – in railways, roads, broadband and other forms of infrastructure. We will upgrade and expand welfare to meet the needs of the future, not least the great need that we will see in the care of the elderly over the coming decades. We will also support the green industrial revolution that is taking place in Sweden. There are estimates that over SEK 1,000 billion will be invested in green industry, only in the north of Sweden. We are faced with a historic opportunity to hand over not only the world's first fossil-free welfare country to our children but also one of the world's most competitive economies. We will take advantage of this opportunity to promote the future of Swedish jobs. And those jobs are green. The third is to equip the unemployed for the jobs that are now emerging. Some need help in finding industries and occupations that you may not have imagined before. You may need to supplement your professional skills or even learn a whole new profession. Others need help to get a foot in the labour market and learn Swedish through an internship or extra service. With clear demands, good opportunities and many ways to work based on individual conditions, that's how we get people into work, not with reduced wages and tax rebates for people who already have jobs. Madam President, I would like Let's not forget why jobs are so important. The jobs are the basis for virtually all the other problems we want to solve. When more people work and pay taxes, we can hire more police officers, more social security officers and more teachers. We can rebuild and expand roads and railways, build homes and secure a safe pension for all those who have worked a long career. And we can continue to speed up climate change. More people at work make it possible to strengthen both health care and care for the elderly. Here the pandemic has shown that there is much to do. Working conditions must be improved. Colleagues need to get more. The shared tours and involuntary part-times must be removed. These are fundamental issues of justice for all Sweden's welfare workers. Better conditions and more colleagues are also crucial for more people to want to go to the welfare professions. And it will be needed. Now the great 40th-century generation is beginning to turn 80, and of course they will have a safe old age. They have the right to do so after building this country of which we are so proud. At the same time, we see that the 90s, which are also large hills, are beginning to come up when you have children. And of course they should be able to go to work without having pain in the stomach that the children's groups in preschool are too large. Madam President, I would like As we begin to see the end of the pandemic, more and more people are asking themselves which Sweden we want after the pandemic. One thing is for sure: Sweden should not go back to being the same country, but we should build Sweden stronger. Here we are in a completely new political situation. Whichever of the problems our society faces – be it unemployment, lack of well-being, inequality of school, crime or the climate crisis – they have two things in common. The first is that more market experiments, ideological liberalisations or major tax cuts cannot be solved. The second is that these are problems that we have to solve together, with common solutions. And that's what this government wants to do. In a complicated parliamentary situation, we have chosen broad cooperation instead of endless conflicts and paralysis. During the worst crisis since the Second World War, Sweden has joined forces to solve problems instead of prioritising short-term political points. It shows the strength of working together even when it's difficult. And now we continue to take Sweden forward together and build a stronger and greener country. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone in Parliament a really happy summer, albeit subject to the fact that the situation is still uncertain. The Ministry of Finance continues to monitor developments closely and would, if necessary, not hesitate to come back with further measures.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-336	Madam President, I would like In the weeks that have passed, we have seen some curious moves by the Social Democrats. The aim is to reduce pension savings in an investment savings account, to tear up the 3:12 framework in order to substantially increase taxation for all small businesses in the country and to reintroduce the wealth tax. This government is not known to attach great importance to impact assessments, to the extent that they do so at all. My question to the Minister for Finance is simply: has any impact assessment been carried out on the effects of these proposals? Distribution policy in all honour, but it is still quite simple. If you take money from person A and give it to person B, B will become relatively richer while A becomes relatively poorer. So I do not mean impact assessments on distribution, but impact assessments on investment, entrepreneurship, jobs and employment. Has such a thing been done at all? We've had wealth tax in this country. There was a reason why it was abolished. Other countries that have had the same have also abolished it, precisely because capital, investment, entrepreneurship and jobs tend to disappear elsewhere.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-340	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming Oscar Sjöstedt back to the Chamber. Oscar Sjöstedt is one of the only of us who are debating who has had to be deprived of much of this debate. He has unfortunately missed many interesting posts and lines. I'm sure he has good reason for his absence. But it has been an exciting and interesting debate. Distribution policy in all honour, says Oscar Sjöstedt. This summarises the views of the Swedish democrats on economic policy. It has taken an extremely clear position at the far right of economic policy and repeatedly defends those who have the greatest wealth and the highest incomes. You try to use ordinary small savers or a painting company in Sveg and shoot them in front of you and claim that it is their interests you speak for. It turns out that it is not at all, but it is the richest and their privileges that one defends. There are no proposals even from a Socialist working party, which has attracted great interest, to make it worse for ordinary small savers, even though many in the debate are trying to assert it. There are no such proposals. As far as the 3:12 framework is concerned, even Dagens Industri has written about the proposal that the government has made and that there is not a single painting company throughout Härjedalen that would be affected by it. Here they try to use ordinary people to wave when the aim of politics is clearly to continue to defend the tax privileges of the rich. It is the economic policy of the Swedish democrats when you look at it.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-346	Madam President, I would like I have a lot of back pain today, so I haven't been able to sit down all day. That's why I've moved a little bit out in the chamber foyer to stretch. I apologize for that absence, but it was necessary. Madam President, I would like I don't really understand this. We have not abolished the military tax on those with the highest income. It was the Social Democrats who did it. It wasn't necessarily a very bad reform. But you can't blame us for that. It was the Social Democrats who did it. They say we're defending the wealthy. I don't get it either. In what way? What reform have I proposed that specifically benefits people with large fortunes? I'm talking about an investment savings account. I think that is perfectly reasonable. If person A has ten times more money than person B in his investment savings account, person A pays ten times more in tax. If you have a hundred times more money, you pay a hundred times more in taxes. I guess that's pretty reasonable whether you have a lot or a little money. That is a very reasonable principle of taxation. In principle, I can guarantee that those who run a painting company are dependent on the 3:12 regulations, a haulage company, a small limited company, a plumber or whatever it may be. It is small businesses that depend on the 3:12 framework that the Social Democrats now want to tear up and destroy. They work quite long hours, late nights and a lot of weekends. They may not see their family as much as they want. They are fully dependent on the 3:12 framework. No, I don't understand the purpose. If you remove the incentives to make money, there is no point in starting a business at all. It will be very low-business in Sweden. Not everyone can work in the public sector even if more people may need to. Not everyone can work in the public sector. Someone needs to work in private business as well. No one will start a business if the Minister of Finance gets what she wants. There are no incentives for that.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-353	Madam President, I would like The truth is that we have a tax system in which those who have large millions of income and collect them through their 3:12 companies have lower taxes than a nurse as a share of income. That is what Oscar Sjöstedt stands and defends, and then he pretends that it is the common people's side he stands on. No, it's not. They pay taxes on their income, which is higher in proportion than the millionaires pay. That's what Oscar Sjöstedt thinks is right. On the other hand, I think that those who have large wealth, and who in today's tax systems have large tax rebates, can contribute a little more. They can make, for example, the construction worker who has worked a very long career and needs to retire prematurely. As far as ISK is concerned, the truth is that there is a tax discount in ISK. It's clear. It was written when you introduced ISK that it is a tax discount. This means that every penny in tax rebate goes to someone. It has turned out that every third of the tax rebate goes to people who have more than 3 million in the ISK account. It may be worth reflecting on. But Oscar Sjöstedt doesn't think so. He thinks it's right that we should have big tax rebates for those with the greatest wealth. As far as the 3:12 rules are concerned, it is clear from the distribution analysis of the proposal that the government has drawn up that it is those who have the highest income, the richest tenth, who would pay by far the largest part of the tax increase. But Oscar Sjöstedt also thinks that's wrong. He stands up for those who have great wealth and the very highest incomes to pay less taxes than nurses, construction workers and painting firms. It's Oscar Sjöstedt's policy. I wish Oscar Sjöstedt a better back.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-360	Madam President, I would like Last year, the Minister of Finance said in this House that she does not exclude taxes on anything. Maybe there'll be taxes on slippers and moon landings, she rallied. I take taxation of the Swedish people a little more seriously than that. Sweden is a highly taxed country. Many hardworking people pay a lot of taxes. Many also wonder, ‘ What do I get for the money? ' What do I get for the money paid in? How does security work for me? Will the police come when I need it? Am I receiving treatment on time? Madam President, I would like What concerns me is that there are no limits to what the Minister of Finance intends to continue raising taxes with for the Swedish people. Just recently, a variety of taxes have been being introduced. It is about taxes on takeaways, taxes on clothing and shoes, increased energy tax for industry and agriculture, increased vehicle tax, increased tax on business cars and a new bank tax. Some of these taxes, Madam President, affect hardworking people. In her own Chamber, the Minister for Finance has also rewritten some additional taxes she would like to introduce in the next parliamentary term. There is increased tax on labour and entrepreneurship, re-introduced wealth tax, heavily limited grid, reduced interest deduction and increased tax on ISK. It is very clear that it should be severely limited. It will affect small savers. Then she has a lot of friends in her party who want to reintroduce the property tax. All of this will affect ordinary people because the Social Democrats and the government are not able to push back unemployment and reduce expenditure on the state. My simple question to the Minister for Finance is: what proposals does the Minister of Finance have to reduce government expenditure and not just to try to increase government revenue by raising taxes for ordinary people?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-366	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that several of the taxes referred to by Elisabeth Svantesson are part of the green exchange of taxes in which we reduce income taxes accordingly. The whole idea behind this is to increase the environmental governance of taxation. On the other hand, tax is reduced on ordinary income, earned income, and on companies to increase governance but without increasing the overall tax burden. The bank tax was my predecessor Anders Borg the first to propose. It's used to finance the defense. That's the Moderate problem. We need funding to be able to implement all the measures needed to expand the police and the defence, to work more preventively against crime and also to improve care for the elderly. Elisabeth Svantesson asks how to reduce government spending. The government has taken major steps to ensure that more people get to work. This means that there are more people working now than when Elisabeth Svantesson was Minister for Labour. Having said that, during my speech I have shown a wide range of measures that the government intends to take in order for more people to get to work. It is something that increases tax revenues and allows for the financing of a wide range of important measures. Of course, it also reduces government expenditure on unemployment.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-370	Madam President, I would like Sweden faces many major challenges. We need to finance the police, the defence and the welfare of the years to come. But it will not be solved by more taxes, but by more paying taxes. Nevertheless, the Minister for Finance seems rather pleased that Sweden after all has record levels of long-term unemployment. Of course, more people work today than seven years ago. It would be strange otherwise, with a population growth that has really increased. But the problem for the government is that it is unable to give priority to spending. There is no way to push back unemployment, as I have mentioned. Had it only developed as the average in the EU during the time that Magdalena Andersson had been Minister of Finance, we would have had 42 billion more in public finances each year. Unemployment must be tackled, but there is also a different priority for state expenditure. It is possible to say no to ineffective policies that cost taxpayers a lot of money instead of proposing tax increases for them. It is possible to reduce expenditure. Many times in this House I have mentioned several things that can be done to reduce expenditure. It is also possible to overcome the leakage from welfare systems to criminals – in particular in recent years. For example, it can be ensured that lay-off legislation contains a special penalty that makes cheating with lay-off aid illegal. These are some examples of what you can do before you come up with proposals to punish hardworking people. I understand that many people reacted when the Minister of Finance lifted the proposal to severely restrict ISK. Hardworking people set the clock every day. When they get their salary, they save a small part of it. When you send a signal as Minister of Finance that it should be punished, you send the wrong signal to the Swedish people. They pay a lot of taxes. They want more out of that money. Make sure to push down unemployment! Cope with expenses! Then we will manage to finance the future.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-377	Madam President, I would like That the Moderates have no problem cutting down, we know. They want to reduce the unemployment benefit for ordinary employees by SEK 6,380 per month. It is a private economic disaster for the vast majority, but it is the Moderates' proposal for a-cassage reduction. It is 3,190 for those with the lowest unemployment benefit. This is what we want in the midst of this crisis. Every time I point out that there are more people working than when Elisabeth Svantesson was Minister for Labour, she says: Yes, of course. We're more Swedes. But Elisabeth Svantesson knows that there are not only more in number. It is also a higher proportion. Then the question is: Why does Elisabeth Svantesson say this every time when she knows that it is also a higher proportion? Is that a fair way to debate, Elisabeth Svantesson? That's a higher percentage than when you were Minister of Labour. Why do you pretend it's just a matter of numbers? Does Elisabeth Svantesson have any better arguments? Do you, Elisabeth Svantesson, have so little when you go after the government that you must try to erase the concepts? Both numbers and proportions, both concepts, are higher. This also applies to what Elisabeth Svantesson says about ISK. Elisabeth Svantesson has a Facebook entry that says that we make it difficult for ordinary people who save for retirement. There is no such proposal. Either Elisabeth Svantesson hasn't read properly or Elisabeth Svantesson deliberately spreads false propaganda on Facebook. Now I tell Elisabeth Svantesson: There are no such proposals even from a social democratic working group. Elisabeth Svantesson is welcome to take down that post, or Elisabeth Svantesson can stand for spreading errors on Facebook in the same way that she tries to lukewarm the concepts. In fact, this government is now a higher employment rate than it was when Elisabeth Svantesson was Minister of Labour.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-383	Madam President, I would like I will begin by thanking Magdalena Andersson for her efforts during the crisis and, not least, for her cooperation with the Riksdag, especially in the last spring, which I in many ways thought was good. Unfortunately, I feel that this ability has slowed down, and the understanding of the reality of companies has become weaker during the crisis – or perhaps it has never existed. And civil society has not received the support it should have had during the crisis. There are still opportunities to do something about this. A major problem is that the government and the finance minister lack policies to meet the major challenges we face in terms of crime and in terms of health care. One lacks a plan for how staff will recover and not least for how we will cope with the health debt. There are many people in care queues who have not been able to seek treatment during the pandemic. This also applies to unemployment. The finance minister himself made an analysis: the group with a weak position in the labour market, young and foreign born, has had a more difficult situation. That is quite correct, but the government's policy has also contributed to this difficult situation. It is the Council of Finance Ministers who notes that those who have fixed-term contracts have lost their jobs to a greater extent because of government policy. I'm not the one who says that. It is the Council of Finance Ministers that says so. There is a huge gap between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. The problem is also that the Spring Bill lacks major reforms to overcome that gap. What we must do now is fight the gap between those who have work and those who do not have work. But we must also, I think, tackle the gap between those who have assets and those who do not have assets. Nor have I seen any proposals from Magdalena Andersson.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-388	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank Jakob Forssmed for his good cooperation. Jakob Forssmed often has good points and a deep knowledge and a broad experience that also the current government can benefit from, among other things in the discussions we have had in the Finance Committee. The Spring Bill contains important reforms for people who are now having a tough time in the labour market. Let me just mention a few! Of course, an important group is young people. We know that it is not good to start your adult life in unemployment. We also know that it is important that young people can get that first line of their CV. Here, in the spring bill, the government has built on the major training efforts that we had in the autumn budget but which started already during the last parliamentary term. It's about the great knowledge boost. There were further investments now in the budget for folk high schools but also for summer courses at universities and colleges, in addition to 15 000 additional opportunities for summer jobs for young people. We had a special focus on disabled people in our amending budget as regards their ability to get to work. We also had special investments in educations that have proved very effective for new arrivals – they combine vocational training with Swedish for immigrants. The first preliminary studies indicate that it is an effective measure. That is why we have chosen to invest a great deal in this measure. So there are efforts here, and I see in front of me that we will, of course, continue to work to get more of these people to work. There are also municipalities. It is of course important that municipalities have the opportunity to employ people in elderly care, for example, through additional services. In this way, vocational training can be combined with work.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-393	Madam President, I would like I note that this time, again, I do not get any sensible arguments in favour of long-term staff being far less protected and even being able to be excluded by government policy in the short-term lay-off system. It would have been good if that rule had not been introduced. It is bad that it has existed, simply. It contributes to an increased gap between people who have jobs and people who do not have jobs, although it is, of course, only a partial explanation. I think that Magdalena Andersson has a commitment to the reduction of gaps, but so far that commitment has mostly been expressed, as we have heard earlier in the debate, in that she is targeting people who already save or who in different ways have capital, for example in real estate. At the same time, effective job reforms are being pursued – or want to – by removing the driving forces of the job tax deduction or limiting the box pull. It will lead to fewer jobs, not more. I would therefore like to ask Magdalena Andersson if she does not see the problem of more people being able to own assets. A debate article just a week ago pointed out that this is where the big gap goes – between those who have and those who do not have assets. What are the proposals to narrow the gap between those who have and do not have assets? That is my specific question.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-397	Madam President, I would like Commenting on the rule that temporary workers cannot be short-term workers is difficult, since temporary workers may be short-term workers. On the other hand, they have been to a lower extent than others. I also think that this should lead to a discussion, perhaps not least in the restaurant sector, where many have been temporary employees, if it is appropriate that this should be the case in the restaurant industry or if more people might have permanent employees. There are also many in the restaurant industry who are temporary employees, who have worked for hours and who have been infected by covid, perhaps at work, but who do not get any health insurance because the employer does not have proper schedules but only has those who have limited time. It's a big problem. Jakob Forssmed says that we are not doing anything to reduce the gaps or to improve for those who have little opportunity. Let me just recite some of the reforms that the government has implemented. We have increased the housing allowance for pensioners. We have increased the guarantee pension for pensioners with the lowest pension. Now in September, the pension supplement for those who have worked a very long working life but still have a low pension. These are very clear distributional policy proposals. We have also increased the maintenance allowance for single parents, which is very accurate. During the crisis, we have also increased the housing allowance, another highly accurate reform. We have also increased child benefit, which is good for all families with children, but of course means most to those who have small margins. Clearly, if you are going to make all these reforms, you also need to finance them. Then more people need to work, and that is why the government has pursued a policy for more people to work. Before the crisis, there were 350,000 more people working compared to when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister and Jakob Forssmed worked in the Government Office, and, as we talked about earlier, also a higher proportion of the population. In addition, we have also seen that those who are wealthy and have large tax rebates today can contribute a little more in order to improve not least for our poor pensioners.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-405	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson said in her speech that regardless of the problems they cannot be solved with more market experiments. Then she is prepared to introduce market rents, against the will of her own constituents, even against the will of the Centers and Liberals. It is a policy against which the Social Democrats went to elections. They were against market rents. Now legislation will abolish the Swedish model, where parties negotiate. One party shall no longer be allowed to sit at the negotiating table. This removes the whole foundation of the Tenants' Association's right to exist. The inquiry into market rents that the Social Democrats want to proceed with and create a government crisis for is like an order from Real Estate owners. The Center is cheering, the Liberals are cheering. A wet dream is coming true. It is a reform that Anders Borg refused to introduce but that Magdalena Andersson is now about to implement – a reform that will excavate people's wallets. Many hardworking people will have a very tough financial situation with several thousand crowns in higher rent. Capital increases rents and government housing allowances. It's money going straight into the property owners' pockets. If it is as in Finland, the cost of housing allowance will increase by eightfold – approximately SEK 35 billion. If you want people to have a bad financial situation for market rents. If you want to continue to under-finance welfare, you will introduce market rents and spend the money on housing allowance for property owners. Why do you want to spend money on housing allowances for property owners instead of investing in welfare? Why do you want to shock people's rents?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-410	Madam President, I would like Today, the Left Party and Ulla Andersson continue to make false claims about the government's policy on renting. We will never accept any market rents. We are behind the partnership model, where tenants and property owners agree on the rents. We protect the position of tenants and also the right to rent as a form of housing. This also means that claims about heavy rent increases for people living in rental apartments today are simply not correct. However, it does of course contribute to creating uncertainty among tenants. It is also important to point out here that the government has not presented any proposals, but it is an investigation that has come and that has been sent for a referral. We have been clear that we see problems with the fact that the investigation does not live up to the directives or to the January agreement in all its parts. Therefore, work is under way to develop new proposals aimed at strengthening the position of tenants. This is something that Morgan Johansson explained already when he received the investigation. However, I share Ulla Andersson's view that we need more rentals with reasonable rents. Therefore, the Government, in cooperation with the Left Party, has also developed a special investment aid for rental rights, one of the requirements being that there is a ceiling on how high the rent can be in order to benefit from the support. As a result, 46 000 homes have been granted this rent subsidy, and it is a policy that I would like to see it continue.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-414	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson and Magdalena Andersson also say that there is no proposal on market rents. The next breath says to implement the January agreement. Annie Lööf and Emil Källström say that this will have no impact at all. Magdalena Andersson says the same thing here. Yet it is prepared to trigger a government crisis over the proposal. But if it has no influence at all, why should it be done? In fact, the investigation is an order from Real Estate owners. In fact, the Center Party has been very clear that this is the first step towards market rents. In fact, the entire investigation says that one party should be banned from sitting at the negotiating table, namely the Tenants' Association, which undermines its entire raison d'être. In fact, no country has managed to introduce free renting into new production without then moving on to market rents throughout the stock. This is what Magdalena Andersson knows. Magdalena Andersson knows that this shock increases people's rents and increases overcrowding and segregation. This certainly does not lead to more rental apartments being built, because the housing shortage and market rents are particularly muddy for the property owners. That's what they're gonna make the big money out of. It is sad that we have a Social Democratic-led government that is ready to abolish the partnership model in the housing market. It is sad that the Social Democrats want to abolish the Tenants' Association and shock raise people's rents. It is sad that you do not listen to the popular opposition to this reform. Put this proposal in the trash, and let's make sure we build rental apartments that people can afford to ask for!
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-420	Madam President, I would like When it comes to building rental apartments that people can afford to demand, I fully agree with Ulla Andersson. But otherwise I feel that Ulla Andersson manufactures straw dolls without relevance to what is stated in the January agreement, or what the government will implement, and then turn them on. As I said, we are behind the party model. What we've been talking about is free renting in new production. So it will not affect any of those who currently live in a rental apartment. This also means that Ulla Andersson's claims about thousands of rent increases are simply not in line with the government's policy. This is also something that Morgan Johansson has been clear about on a number of occasions.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-422	Madam President, I would like Sweden is the country in the European Union where unemployment has increased most since 2014. Sweden is one of the countries of the European Union that has had the lowest economic growth since this government took office. Crime eats up society. Tax policy should be used to address the problems that Sweden has. Tax policy should be used to push down unemployment, to provide more opportunities for economic growth and to squeeze the people who cheat and commit crimes, thereby destroying our security and everyday life. Instead, it is just the opposite. Jobs and entrepreneurship face new and higher taxes. There is constant talk of new and higher taxes for all who work, strive and run businesses. Support schemes are being extended and grant levels are being increased. Fusares and criminals steal the equivalent of SEK 20 billion annually from welfare. Crime costs at least SEK 200 billion each year. At this point, the government, led by the Social Democrats, wants to tax everyone who works, saves and owns their housing even more. It is bad for Sweden, and it is immoral. While the Social Democrats are chasing honest taxpayers, we in the Moderates are going after cheaters and criminals. Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the highest levels of unemployment in the EU. It has increased more here than in any other EU country since 2014. Employment has developed least throughout the European Union. Long-term unemployment has increased by 30%. Every other immigrant, or 675,000, is unable to support himself. At this point, the government, with the Social Democrats at the head and with the support of the Center Party, is choosing to increase subsidies and taxes, thereby transforming even more of those who are unemployed and are in exclusion into costs in public spending rather than freeing up the ability that exists in Sweden and ensuring that more people end up in work, support themselves and contribute to the common. The government's tax policy does nothing of what it should do. We Moderates suggest that it will be more profitable to work and that all jobs should pay for themselves with 500 SEK more. Then it will be more profitable to work, and more jobs will also be profitable. Instead, the government does the opposite. It seems to have a theme for its tax policy that is more, more, more, more, more and more. It is not enough with the tax increases that have already been implemented, it has reduced the tax credit for jobs, it has implemented symbolic policies in terms of plastic bag tax and it has put new and more taxes on the car. This government also prepares taxes on takeaways, clothing, and shoes. The energy tax for forestry and industry is increased, vehicle tax is increased and company cars are taxed more heavily. The aim is to introduce a special risk tax for anyone who wants to borrow money for investment. The Social Democrats have recently put forward new tax proposals to further reduce employment tax deductions, with more tax increases for entrepreneurship and new wealth taxes. There is talk of reintroduction of property tax, deterioration of the square and deterioration of the interest deduction. All of this is done with huge costs for Swedish growth, for Swedish households and for Swedish taxpayers. It is time to change the policy and move Sweden towards full employment and better integration. Madam President, I would like The tax system must, of course, ensure that we are able to finance what should be common: health care, school, police and defence. In doing so, taxes should be designed in such a way that they provide the right driving forces for people, so that they provide driving forces for those who not only want Sweden to be as it was before or as it is today, but for all those who want to try to make not only their own life but our whole country better. There is a clear difference between those who think it should pay more to live on grants and not take responsibility either for themselves or for others and those of us who think it should pay more to work, take responsibility for themselves and contribute to the common. An important virtue and necessity for a progressive society is that there are people who want to save. Someone's savings become someone else's investment. When the Minister of Finance and the Social Democrats go for savings, they are going for an important cornerstone in what builds Sweden strong. People who can save and have a penny in the bank are resilient to worse economic times. People who save money at the bank are not exposed when they become retired or when they fall ill. People who save a penny at the bank can face temporary setbacks in life. People who save a penny in the bank make sure that there is money for those who want to start new businesses and create more jobs. Investing in saving is an extremely stupid idea because it impairs the way the economy works, because it impairs job creation and because it gives people the wrong driving forces. There are those who stand far to the left who think that people should be more or less bare-scraped. If things go badly for a short time, you should be directly referred to the municipality, the state or some form of public safety net. In this way, people get a little scared and worried about the state. You become totally dependent on politics. The person who has saved his own money becomes freer and a little less concerned about what politics is doing. It can of course be perceived as a nightmare for left-wing Social Democrats, but basically a society where people have their own security and savings is a better functioning society where the state and we together can better withstand different types of problems and crises. The Minister of Finance has told us that the investment savings account will be impaired. The investment savings account is used by nine out of ten savers to save for retirement or accommodation. We know that there are problems with many pensioners who have poor financial margins. If this is not to happen in the future, then it is good that people are saving pensions. Due to overregulations in the housing market in many different ways there are major problems with housing queues. To then impair people's chances of bosparing is therefore bad for Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is time to redo, do the right thing and use tax policy to solve Sweden's existing problems, not create new ones.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-437	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to prioritise growth, entrepreneurship and job creation. We want to prioritise welfare and security. To achieve this, we need to invest in good conditions for Swedish industry and small businesses. Industry is crucial. Small enterprise can be crucial to reducing unemployment in the future. This applies both in cities and in rural areas. The prerequisite is that the industry is competitive and that smaller companies manage to recover from the pandemic and have the potential to grow. Reasonable levels of taxation and a tax system that is perceived as fair are needed. Sweden needs a tax system that promotes work and entrepreneurship, and in these times a tax policy is needed that facilitates recovery in all parts of the economy after the difficult period caused by the pandemic. During the pandemic, it has proved unsurprisingly that the economy has been backing in terms of many bankrupt companies and growing unemployment. Sweden is at the top of Europe in terms of high unemployment. The need to give energy to the recovery process is evident. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that the so-called job tax deduction be increased by SEK 10 billion. It should include both income from employment and income from pensions in order not to create a new tax gap between workers and pensioners. For an average wage earner, the proposal would mean SEK 1,300 – 1,400 more in the wallet each year, while lower income earners would have a relatively large tax reduction. Even before the pandemic, the local government sector and regions were under pressure from, among other things, long medical queues. Now that the pandemic has hit and had a negative impact on the tax base, we are in a situation where health professionals have been strained under harsh working conditions while the regions are at risk of entering a period of even tougher conditions. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to strengthen the economies of the regions by shifting government tax revenues from industrial properties and power generation units to the regions. For 2021 it could mean a strengthening of the regions' economy by approximately SEK 3.4 billion and thereafter sustainable annual income to the regions, which would also have a clearer incentive to attract investments from both Swedish and foreign investors in properties of this type. Revenue for the regions will be more general budgetary reinforcements, which would improve the conditions for providing good health care and maintaining and developing infrastructure based on needs. The proposal benefits all regions of Sweden. In addition, there is a north-south dimension and a difference between the city and the countryside where the northern parts of Sweden have a clearer sparsely populated area than the southern parts. Southern Sweden and metropolitan regions receive a supplement of between SEK 150 and 310 per person per year, while Jämtland, for example, receives SEK 1,350 per person per year. It compensates for the smaller tax base in northern Sweden and makes it possible to offer good health care on equal terms throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Government states in its spring budget that a green recovery will be carried out with investments that reduce climate emissions and create jobs, where Sweden takes a leading role in climate change. Those are pretty words, certainly. Unfortunately, it seems that the government is also aiming for Sweden to have a leading role in terms of tax pressure, i.e. tax as a share of GDP. In the long term, Sweden, with the government's constant tax increases, will have the chance to take the lead in this negative type of comparison, which would be less beneficial for our ability to create our own jobs and also for our international reputation and our ability to attract investments for job growth. The government continues to pursue a policy of substantially increasing migration costs while raising taxes to finance this, and we have seen that the tax base has been yielding during the pandemic. This combination is directly detrimental to the economy in both the short and long term. Any economic sound government had, of course, come to its senses and chosen to cut costs beyond what could be considered the central tasks of the public sector for its citizens, not least in a period of economic decline. Instead, this government raises one tax after another, which in itself risks adding to the economic downturn. What is needed, Madam President, is to reduce unnecessary costs. A total stop is needed for the influx of foreign beneficiaries. There is a need for a gradual reduction in foreign aid – SEK 50 billion per year in foreign aid does not benefit those Swedes with the lowest incomes. It is now also becoming quite clear to everyone that the Swedish pension system will be broken. The Swedish pension system, which would be insecure, which would be sustainable in the longer term, will be broken by the fact that in the hundreds of thousands of people born abroad who do not pay into the system still receive the right to a minimum level, the right to old age support and the right to housing allowance. This does not benefit the Swedish poor pensioners. Nor can I fail, Madam President, to mention the SEK 150 billion that the government sent to the EU Corona Fund to support other countries that mismanaged their economies. It does not benefit the Swedish taxpayer. This does not benefit Swedish welfare. It does not allow for a tax system for jobs, entrepreneurship and growth. With a sound policy on the cost side, a Swedish welfare system is possible. It is then possible to have tax levels that favour job creation, entrepreneurship and growth. The proposals of the Swedish democrats, which I have mentioned in part, can be found in our motion for the Spring Bill. I support our second reservation in the FiU20 report.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-455	Madam President, I would like When we debate economic policy guidelines here in the Chamber of Parliament, we hear the most grand rhetoric from the government and its co-operative parties, who are determined to continue with the unfair tax policy that has eroded Swedish welfare and increased inequality in recent decades and which has nothing else to offer but major tax cuts for the rich and more privatisations, marketing schools and market rents – experiments after experiments. This particular policy has failed for decades, and this particular policy administers the Social Democrats while there is mass unemployment and, at the same time, welfare, health care and school live with eternal cuts. That doesn't make any sense. Sweden is being torn apart by this neoliberal policy, which takes inequality to new levels. While welfare and health care workers are working hard and long under pressure, Sweden's richest has benefited from the Corona crisis. The fortunes of the dollar billionaires have rushed during the pandemic, from 20 to nearly 30 percent of our total bnp, and the class divides are increasing faster in Sweden than in any other analogue country. The growing inequality in Sweden is driven largely by the unwillingness to tax the capital and ownership of the wealthy. Instead, this few money invests in elusive houses, expensive cars and luxury boats. Maybe it's a good system if you think you should fill the rich stock portfolios. But it is a very bad system if you want functioning schools, hospitals and elderly care. Then it is a much worse system. That is why we need to have a tax policy that re-distributes and evens out the economic divides, which tax the largest assets, which forcefully push down unemployment and manage to invest in welfare and climate change. It's this government totally incapable of delivering. It is when one holds a society together that one also builds faith and hope and narrows the gaps between city and country, between the working and the unemployed, between the healthy and the sick, and not least between the one who lives in abundance and the one who lives on the margins. That's what Sweden needs right now – reducing economic gaps and large investments for a society that stays together. Then we must put aside major tax cuts and ensure that those benefiting from fiscal policy actually start paying back so that we can secure the long-term financing of welfare, invest in children's preschool and school and rearrange health care across the country. Here the government has not fulfilled its welfare commitments, and here we lack permanent investment in the long term. They're missing. Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has shown how fragile the resilience of society is in many areas. We know that it is tax cuts and privatisations that drain the welfare of resources. Similarly, understaffing, hourly employment, precarious jobs and high staff turnover have worsened our ability to face a crisis. This has had devastating consequences. We also see how the crisis has exposed the Swedish class society. Many officials and academics can protect themselves from the infection by working at home, which workers rarely can. Women workers in particular have paid a high price during the pandemic, both financially and in terms of health and safety at work. And even their conditions, their activities or their welfare, this government can't be sure in the long term. In the spring budget, the government should have taken the opportunity to launch or at least point out a massive investment programme for welfare, for climate change and for a real new start that Sweden needs, with full employment and equality, which comes from safe and strong wage earners building the country and leaving no one behind. It is high time we left yesterday's economy behind and created room for great investment and social reform. Madam President, I would like The Left Party's tax policy guidelines aim to break the class society and the dangerous trend with increased gaps that the government first tightens and then closes its eyes to. We not only realise but also act on the basis that economic equality is necessary to get a Sweden where we can all feel trust and hope for the future. The tax system should not be rigged for the richest percentage. Sweden is increasingly like a few empires where wealth and capital are concentrated in the richest. It's one of the most outmoded things we can imagine. That is why we need a radical shift in tax policy, in which we are also rolling in billionaire money into our common and in which growth and the economy benefit the majority, not just a click at the top. Then the state can also step forward with powerful public investment. Medical care needs to be upgraded, housing needs to be built and rails need to be laid. And the fact is, if we had the same tax rate as at the turn of the millennium, we would have had 300 billion more to move with. This is the difference between a well-functioning and a crisising welfare. That is the difference between a society that is torn apart and one that holds together. If we look at the fortunes, we see that the richest ones are pulling away faster than ever before. If we look at capital income, we see the same development. If we look even closer, at inheritance, we see that more than half of Swedish wealth comes precisely from large inheritances that are not taxed. It is the private wealth, capital and well-being of the top rich that have been prioritised and their taxes reduced or abolished, while the proportion of poor children has risen sharply. Some families don't even have money to put food on the table or pay the rent. They can't afford a winter jacket or lined boots for their kids. Yet this government chooses to give priority to the richest. Not taxing top-level to make it better for wage earners and families with children and for welfare cannot be an option. Taxing top-rich must be of the highest priority, and this steps the Left Party forward with. Here, wealth, large inheritances, capital and expensive properties are gradually taxed. It finances substantial, permanent investments for jobs and the future – because this is right and right. So let us build a better and more hopeful society for us humans, with the realization that we all need each other. It is time for welfare workers and health professionals to get the status they deserve, better and safe working conditions, reasonable schedules and working hours that can be combined with family life and leisure time. Let us rearrange our insurance systems so that they hold up when life is in crisis and in sickness and unemployment and do not allow anyone to become poor, but guarantee the strongest safety nets! Because when we do things together, we are stronger than when we do things individually. This has been demonstrated, not least, by the crisis during the pandemic. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the committee and the committee staff very much and wish you a nice summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-474	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with some very happy news. In March last year, many were convinced that revenue for organisations such as the Cancer Fund, Save the Children and the Heart-Lung Fund and others would be reduced due to the Corona virus. At the beginning of the crisis, 55 percent of the members of the trade association Give Sweden thought that this would happen. Concerns have also been raised to some extent in the case of corporate gifts, which have diminished during the crisis. But the public's donation has increased – so much so that, despite the Corona crisis, the total revenue to these organisations is increasing. The explanation for this is the gift tax deduction, which was reintroduced after the Christian Democrats got it into the joint KD-M budget, which was decided by the Riksdag at the beginning of the parliamentary term. The gift tax deduction means that the person who gives gifts to an approved organisation can make a tax reduction of up to SEK 1,500 per year. This was first introduced in 2012 and existed until the Red Green Government removed it in 2015. During those years, giving increased greatly. When it was removed, the positive development slowed down considerably. That is why it was obvious for us Christian Democrats to reintroduce the gift tax deduction when we had the chance, and now we see the positive effects of this. Despite a very deep economic crisis, revenues for these organisations increased. So the gift tax deduction is once again a success! Now is the time to start developing it. We Christian Democrats want the ceiling to be raised sharply so that more people can give more gifts. At the same time, the lower limit for a single gift needs to be lowered, and it is important that more types of organisations can be included. The gift tax deduction is a success, but it can be even better. Madam President, I would like Our society is based on people making investments. If there is no investment, jobs will not be created either. And if there are no jobs, there will be no tax revenue either. Without tax revenue, our way of financing health care, care for the elderly, school, police and defence falls. All of this is basically based on someone making an investment. If we want social functions such as health care and police to work and have more resources, we need a climate that encourages investment and work. A tax system is needed to encourage investment and work. In the tax debates we have here, I usually point out that all tax money basically belongs to the people – that it is they who paid the tax that is the real owner of the money. That is why it is also an end in itself to reduce taxes. But reduced taxes also boost growth. It creates more jobs, and tax cuts that stimulate work also lead to the long-term strengthening of local government's finances. In this way, municipalities and regions can maintain and develop well-being. We Christian Democrats want to continue to reduce taxes on labour and pensions. This creates more jobs and strengthens well-being, but it is also right from the point of view that the tax money basically belongs to those who have worked them together. Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, everything starts with someone making an investment. We must therefore have a tax environment that not only encourages labour but also encourages investment. Although there are of course things that can be improved, Sweden is actually quite good here. A wide range of world-renowned companies have been set up here in recent years, and we shall be proud of that. These companies show that we are actually one of the world's most innovative countries. One of the reasons why these companies are emerging here is that, after inheritance taxes and property taxes have been removed, there are conditions for retaining and reinvesting capital in Sweden. This is extremely valuable to Swedish society. We really need to safeguard this positive investment climate and make it even better. A better investment climate provides more jobs and, as I said, more jobs provide better well-being. That is why it is extremely bad when the Minister of Finance talks about higher capital taxes. The fact is that only the talk of higher capital taxes is dangerous in itself, as it creates uncertainty that hampers the willingness to invest. This also hampers the emergence of new jobs. So half the damage has already been done. Madam President, I would like We need another government, with a finance minister who understands that new and growing companies are crucial to new jobs and who understands the consequences of destroying the conditions for this through increased taxes. Madam President, I would like In recent weeks, the investment savings accounts, ISK, have been debated extensively. Thanks to the simple flat-rate taxation, ISK is the most common type of savings account today. More than 3 million Swedes have an ISK. Unfortunately, two tax increases were made on investment savings accounts during the last term of office. This has reduced the chances of savings for ordinary people. Now it turns out that the Social Democrats are not content with this, but they also want to set a ceiling on how much money can be saved in the account. However, it has not been easy to understand where the ceiling is supposed to be. There has been discussion of a level of $100,000 and a level of $200,000. The Minister of Finance has later said that the ceiling should be at a completely different level. Obviously, ordinary people's savings are not so important to the Social Democrats that you have the energy to think about what you really want. Instead, our message is that ISK should be protected and improved. Saving should be encouraged. Madam President, I would like There is reason to be concerned about growing economic inequality, but trying to solve this by making it more difficult for ordinary people's savings leads completely wrong. What is needed instead is reforms that allow more people to own and not least that they can own their homes. This would contribute to greater economic equality. We Christian Democrats want to see a system that creates incentives for housing savings. This is something that exists in other countries but is missing in Sweden. We want to introduce an affordable housing saving as a pre-selection for all young people between 18 and 34 years of age with a earned income – a kind of autobospar for young people where the state initially compensates with a tax reduction. With a fixed amount and tax reduction per month, it is the lowest income earners who are most strengthened in their savings, and the pre-selection means that those who would not otherwise have saved benefit from the model. More people will thus have the opportunity to own their dwelling and take part in the development of value in the housing market. This will also increase equality. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want a tax policy that maintains the work line, which encourages savings and generosity and attracts investment. We see that increasing economic inequality is a problem. We want to come up with solutions to this, for example by ensuring that more people can own their homes. Then we get, to use Göran Hägglund's old motto, a society where no one is held back and no one is left behind. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and wish him a pleasant summer. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the committee and wish you a pleasant summer. I would like to say the same to our excellent committee office and the officials there.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-493	Madam President, I would like It is over a year since the pandemic took hold in Sweden. Since then, nothing has been the same. The health care staff and the elderly have undergone their perhaps hardest test ever, and for many others it has been very heavy. Vaccination, however, allows us to look brighter at the future. Pandemin has confronted Sweden and the whole world with a situation that is unparalleled in modern times. In addition to the serious consequences for life and health, it has hit hard on jobs and entrepreneurship. The world economy has suffered the most dramatic decline in modern times – deeper than in the financial crisis. For a country like Sweden, which builds its wealth on trade, it has been inevitable to be drawn into this negative spiral. The spring budget is usually about defining economic policy, and the spring change budget usually means correcting the current year's budget depending on the different events in the country. That is not exactly what it looks like today. In view of all the amending budgets and initiatives in Parliament, this is not a normal year. We can all hope that we can now return to a more normal course of budgetary work and state revenue and expenditure. Arranged budgetary processes and clear economic objectives have served our country well. Isolated announcements from the Riksdag may be justified – we Social Democrats have themselves put forward proposals for them – but when it starts to look like an ongoing public right to exercise, it is not good. Since last autumn, the government has strengthened and extended virtually all available crisis support. These are measures that create a breathing space while waiting for it to turn around. Now there are signs that things are moving in the right direction. Slowly but surely Sweden opens up again. Madam President, I would like Even when the crisis broke out, we were clear that no country, no matter how strong its public finances, can save all jobs and businesses. But only by short-term lay-off have hundreds of thousands of Swedish employees been saved from the risk of losing their job. Thanks to the increase in unemployment, you don't have to worry about having to walk from house and home. Through the knowledge boost, there have also been more training places. Overall, the expenditure on the measures taken since the spread of infection is now estimated at over SEK 400 billion. Thanks to a responsible policy, Sweden, as the Minister for Finance said, was able to enter the pandemic with 350 000 more in work, 100 000 more employees in welfare and the lowest public debt since 1977. Despite all the crisis packages, we still have strong public finances. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are exaggerating somewhat when it comes to our tax burden. I guess the left has a rhetoric that's the other way around. If you look at the statistics, you can see that the tax ratio, i.e. the tax revenue share of gross domestic product, is expected to reach 42% in 2021. This is a historically low level, and there is no reason for it to be lower. We must be able to protect the welfare state and the security of our citizens. In terms of tax revenues, a recovery is expected this year and in 2022 to 2024 a relatively rapid increase in tax revenues is expected. Then all tax bases will contribute. If you read the spring budget you can see that the development is brighter and more positive. This is demonstrated by the fact that tax revenues have been revised up to EUR 32 billion per year. With regard to our amending budget, Madam President, we are now halfway to the government's target of 10 000 more police workers. This work is producing results, which is why we need to strengthen the whole legal chain in future budgets. In this budget, the Government proposes to increase the grant to the Swedish Customs Agency by SEK 20 million. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has caused other problems as well. As a result of the pandemic, the review of the tax system has been moved forward. A new, broad tax reform of the same kind as 1990/ 91 is needed. It shows all the different solutions and exceptions. It should be a tax reform whose focus is not on different tax cuts but on being able to finance future welfare needs in the long term and in a sustainable way. We also see what the Left Party described about class divisions and welfare deficiencies. It has become very clear in the pandemic, and we cannot accept that. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposals in the FiU20 and FiU21 reports.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-507	Madam President, I would like We could hear the chairman of the Tax Committee Jörgen Hellman complaining about the many initiatives taken or tried by the Riksdag to improve the government's policy during the crisis that has been. Clearly, so many initiatives were bad – except, of course, when the Social Democrats take this type of initiative, because that is a good thing. This falls well within the general social democratic moral perception that it is always wrong when others do it while it is right when the Social Democrats do exactly the same thing. This applies to everything from military tax and limited immigration to free renting and much more. I'm sure this will get people watching the debate to pull a little smilbands. Unemployment has increased more in Sweden than in any other European country, employment in Sweden has developed least throughout the European Union and growth is low. It is the view of the Moderates that the government's efforts should be directed towards solving this. But the government does other things. This government is stalking people and families around Sweden who are dependent on the car. It hits the household economy hard and makes everyday life more difficult for almost no environmental benefit at all. People feel that shops, schools and workplaces have gone further away, and in the next breath the responsible politicians say that it will be even more expensive to get there. They say that everything should go on electricity but shut down nuclear power so that there is no electricity. There is even a shortage of electricity. The gas insurgency 2.0 brings together more than half a million people on Facebook. The Moderates have listened to them and propose to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel by 1 crown. Is it completely out of the question to get the Social Democrats on board with it?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-515	Madam President, I would like As far as unemployment is concerned, according to the latest available data, Sweden has the highest proportion of the adult population in employment and, to an even greater extent, participation in the labour force. The fact that other countries have lower unemployment is simply due to the fact that people there, mostly women, have stopped looking for work. It is very bad to argue on the basis that the statistics should be improved. The most important thing in our area is, of course, to take steps to reach these groups. The budget has tried to resolve this through strong training efforts in knowledge transfer and such things. So to the car. The climate change needed for us to survive here on earth requires a shift from petrol and diesel to more environmentally friendly fuels. We are in the middle of this process, and then we need to constantly change taxes so that those who have cars, like me, choose a more environmentally friendly car next time. Bringing more domestic products into petrol and diesel is a good way to steer over to more environmentally friendly cars.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-518	Madam President, I would like The government hunts families around the country who depend on the car. It will be expensive, and the environmental benefits are low or none at all. We will of course switch to a sustainable and green society, but the costs of it cannot be distributed unfairly. The high costs and taxes of having a car drive an injustice through Sweden between those who live in large cities and can travel public transport and those who live in rural areas and depend on the car to make life go together. It is unfair to allow those living outside the cities and rural areas to bear such a large part of the burden of conversion. A better environmental policy would be not to shut down nuclear power and ensure good supply of electricity in the future. All those who are committed to a lower petrol price, just mentioned petrol riots half a million followers on Facebook and many others, have been listened to by at least the Moderates. We want to reduce the cost of refuelling with 1 crown liter, whether it is petrol or diesel. In addition, we want to make strong climate action that is not just symbolic but actually genuinely reducing emissions. It is sad that the Social Democrats do not want to contribute to a more just and coherent policy in this area. Having said that, I would like to wish the President's Bureau, the Registry and the President a happy summer. We may be very fond of politics, but Jörgen Hellman has done an amazing job in leading the committee during these difficult times. It has worked just fine. I wish you and all the other colleagues in the committee a happy summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-524	Madam President, I would like To Niklas Wykman, second vice-chairman of the Tax Committee and Moderate, I would like to say that he represents a rhetoric about reduced taxes that is indeed a tradition within the Moderates. I looked at old election posters from the Moderates, and exactly 100 years ago they clearly said that the tax burden must be lightened. In the 20's the theme was lower taxes and in the 30's reduced taxes. But then something happened. The Moderates began to ask where the money went and then topped with the funniest: For 100 years, Moderate rhetoric has been about cutting taxes, so it's probably gone ahead. The problem is that they also have to raise money for what needs to be done. It is easy to say that taxes should be reduced, but then you do not get money for, among other things, the conversion to a greener way of driving. I wish Niklas Wykman, the President's Bureau, the committee group and the staff a pleasant summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-528	Madam President, I would like It will be interesting and fun to be involved in this debate on the tax round in economic policy. I do not usually serve on the Tax Committee, but it will be very interesting to be present. Madam President, I would like When we gather for this debate, Sweden is in a special, not to say historical, difficult to analyse. On the one hand, the Swedish economy entered the pandemic as one of Europe's strongest. Few or no countries beat Sweden's performance when it comes to stable public finances. On the other hand, it is extremely difficult to tell what reality we see when the pandemic is over. The question of what new trends or ways of working remain and will be strengthened is waiting for an answer that can fundamentally change society. Madam President, I would like Now that we are moving towards a summer when an increasing proportion of the population, not least the elderly and those belonging to risk groups, have received their shots, there is reason to reflect on the fiscal and fiscal policy of the last year. The considerable security we have had in crisis management is due to one of the world's lowest public debt. In Sweden we have not, as in many other countries around the world, had to think so much in terms of whether we can afford it, because we have. We have been able to afford, and more so, to take the historic leaps that we have made in terms of tax cuts, by reducing employers' contributions and by continuing to reduce taxes on income. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, representatives of the Committee on Finance have debated the general content of the budgetary options. Let me therefore briefly explore a few issues that are particularly relevant to the Committee on Taxation. Young people have been ruthlessly affected by the pandemic, and the companies employing young people are to a large extent in sectors most affected by the pandemic, often in the restaurant and visitor industries. Employers' contributions are now significantly reduced for young people up to the age of 23. Lowering employers' contributions for young people is a good and wise policy, not just for young people's jobs. It is a policy which also benefits others in the labour market, simply because it is also a general stimulus to entrepreneurship, a lower threshold into the labour market, which can continue to benefit those who are not young. Well-being companies create jobs. Sometimes we can think that it is we in this House that are actually creating jobs, but that is not the case. Four out of five jobs are created by small businesses, and Sweden needs a party that consistently works for better conditions for these companies, especially in the midst of a burning crisis. I and we are proud that this party is the Center Party. Together with the Alliance, we ensured that during eight years we strengthen welfare and at the same time lower taxes for people and businesses. It was a good policy that gave more money in the wallet to more and better health care, care and school. We are continuing this policy even now as we reduce the tax by over 30 billion and, at the same time, greatly strengthen welfare. We will continue to push for this in future budgets too. In order for Sweden to consolidate and strengthen its role in the global economy, we must continue our reform efforts. Lower taxes on jobs and businesses will be central to continuing job growth. Madam President, I would like Although in terms of the spread of infection and the degree of vaccination we may be able to begin to see the light in the tunnel, it is right now that the work begins for many in Sweden. It is a work to get back on track and focus on getting companies to grow. One of the most important issues in this context is the reimbursement of the substantial tax credits introduced as a temporary pandemic aid. This is an issue which, in reality, will not be raised until a bit into next year, but for me and the Center Party, it is extremely important that we can give early information from politics on how to repay it. A regular shop or restaurant does not have many percent margin on the last row when all costs are paid, and we certainly do not want to see viable companies in the aftermath of the pandemic throwing in the towel. Only for the tourism industry is it about deferred tax payments at around 6,000 companies with a value of SEK 4.5 billion. There must not be a precipice in March 2022 when everything must be paid at once. That is why we need to go out now and establish a repayment plan that will work and extend the time. Madam President, I would like In the autumn's budget, we reduced taxes on jobs and companies by over SEK 30 billion. We are now continuing our efforts to safeguard jobs and businesses. We extend many of the extremely important crisis support to our companies and lift costs while making it cheaper to hire young people. This gives companies lower costs and better opportunities to hire and invest in their business. Then we get our companies back on their feet, we protect our jobs and we start the economy. The crisis is far from over, but if we are to get back to a Sweden that is stronger than we were when we entered the pandemic, we must do everything we can to kick off our economy again. There must be paragraph one, paragraph two and paragraph three on our priority list. Madam President, I would like It is important and good that we are many who talk about how to get an economic start in Sweden. But it must also be translated into practical policies that give our companies better conditions and lower costs. They're the ones who create the jobs and make the wheels spin. The autumn budget and the spring change budget that we have now presented together with the Liberals and the Government are doing just that – lowers the tax on those who hire and invest, simplifies rules and makes more people find the strength and courage to get started in earnest again. After all, it is our companies and people's jobs that create the tax revenue that we can spend on welfare. If we do not invest in the survival of our companies, we will soon get to a point where we have no money to invest in welfare. Madam President, I would like People with small margins need to get the economy together at the end of the month and feel secure. As we now lower the tax on over 7 million people, on employees and pensioners, we give even more people that security. At the same time as we reduce employers' contributions significantly for everyone up to 23 years this summer, we continue to invest in the Swedish countryside and in new, green technology. All of this makes a difference to more people, for real. Thanks to the Center Party, we can get an economic start all over the country. We save and strengthen the rural programme, we invest billions in broadband, in better roads and railways and in rural businesses. So we stick together Sweden, and then we take the whole country through the crisis. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to wish everyone a really happy and pleasant summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-548	Madam President, I would like You have to give the Center Party some credit when it comes to living up to the concept of conversion, but perhaps not necessarily in the way that the Center Party itself means by conversion. There is quite a difference between being first part of a moderate-led government that handled a crisis best in the world, being appointed Nordic Light, having the highest level of employment in the European Union, creating lots of new jobs and so on and then becoming a support wheel for a left-wing government that increases unemployment most, has the worst employment development and constantly hampers, threatens and scares entrepreneurs around the country. You can also give the Center Party that they have been very skilled in the transition when it comes to replacing their electorate. From turning to hard-working small businesses in rural areas, the Center Party has turned to a more well-informed inner city circle in Stockholm, with identity-political pretences, through new charges on entrepreneurship and, above all, very heavy charges on being dependent on the car. A lot of change has characterized the Center Party in recent years, but perhaps not so much the Swedish environmental policy. Looking ahead, we see that the Social Democrats have rolled out a bomb mat of tax increases for the next parliamentary term. The Center Party is relatively clear that it intends to continue to support Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. My question is therefore: can the Center Party promise not to support a government that reintroduces property tax and abolishes interest rebates?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-552	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wykman, for the questions. I would like to begin by commenting on our electoral base and where we have our voters. The Center Party is a party for the whole country. I do not want to pit electoral groups against each other, whether they live in the city or in the countryside. I don't think we should do that either. There are many who vote for the Center Party and who live in cities, and there are very many who vote for the Center Party and who live in rural areas. We have said that we are prepared to support a Social Democratic-led government. Of course, we can also consider sitting in a moderate government. We have been very clear about this. We have also said that we do not want to reintroduce the property tax that has previously been removed. This has been communicated very clearly from our party leader Annie Lööf and others, as well as the discussion about ISK accounts.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-556	Madam President, I would like There are many discussions about the reintroduction of property tax. For example, Stefan Lövven's Minister Anders Ygeman and the Social Democrats in Stockholm have presented a proposal to reintroduce the property tax. There is the same tone from the Social Democrats in Skåne and from the Social Democrats in Gothenburg. There are simply many forces on the left in politics that now want to reintroduce property tax. Many people remember the consequences of property tax before the tax was abolished by the moderate-led government. As a result of the property tax, people were allowed to leave their homes, as a result of which pensioners could not afford to stay, and this led to a great deal of uncertainty and insecurity about their own housing. The moderates' position is clear. The home should be a safe place surrounded by safe conditions. When economists talk about increased mobility in the housing market, it is often a question of people having to leave their home because they become pensioners. We think that is a wrong policy. Bostaden is more than an economic institution that politicians should play around with. The proposal from the Social Democrats in Stockholm to reintroduce a property tax is hitting households' finances very hard, not least here in the Greater Helsinki region. An ordinary family with children would have to pay a tax of SEK 5 000 – SEK 10 000 more per month if the property tax were to be reintroduced and if the interest rebates were abolished. Can the Center Party promise that it will not support or sit in a government that reintroduces property tax?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-561	Madam President, I would like As I said in previous replicas, we have, on previous occasions and even during this spring, said no to the reintroduction of property tax. Of course, we stand by that even today. Regardless of which constellation you are part of and which issues you settle about, it is always a negotiation on the issues you want to prioritise and on which taxes are to be raised or lowered. But the answer to the question from Niklas Wykman is no. It has been so far and will continue to be so.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-564	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party's own housing policy spokesperson has made a recognition of the market rents. He has said: it is an ongoing process of liberalising and changing the leasing system, and I think it is good to start with new production and introduce a model that can be gradually implemented in the existing stock.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-566	Madam President, I would like The study that has been carried out on free renting therefore applies precisely to the new production of apartments. That is also what the government proposal is about. This is therefore true in new production. I'd like to know exactly who it is that's going to get the height rent. There will not be increased rents in the stock that already exists today, but there will be a market-based and free renting in the stock that will be built in the future but not in what exists today.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-568	Madam President, I would like I have just referred to what the House Party's spokesperson has said, and it is precisely about market rents. And it turns on the entire stock. But it does not lead to more housing. On the contrary, it leads to poorer tenants. For Swedish tenants, market rents would be a disaster. Seven out of ten Swedes say no to market rents. In my hometown of Gothenburg, the rents would be shocked by over 50 percent. In some areas they would be increased by 70% and in other areas by 60%. Who can afford it? Can the Center Party answer that? Why do you want to increase the vulnerability of the housing market? Why do you want to increase housing segregation? Why do you want to increase class divisions in this way? Answer it!
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-570	Madam President, I would like We need to build more homes in Sweden, and we need to build across the country – in cities and in rural areas. There needs to be a combination of residential units, both residential units and rental apartments. There needs to be housing for all people, whether you're old or young, if you're studying, if you're in the middle of life and if you have a family. The dwelling is supposed to be a safety. The proposal on free renting concerns new production of apartments. I cannot see that it will affect anyone and increase the class divides in Sweden. Rather, we will have more production and a better rotation of the housing market, which is needed. That is where there are differences between the entrances of the Center Party and the Left Party. It is in new production that there will be free renting. But, of course, there will also be negotiations on the old stock. Nevertheless, I do not believe that this will create the problems raised by the Left Party here. This will rather ensure that there will be better mobility in the housing market, that more housing will be able to be built and that we will have a better housing stock throughout the country.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-573	Madam President, I would like It has been interesting that the last hour has been sitting here listening to colleagues who occasionally, some of them anyway, have had a rather high tone, not least the Left Party Tony Haddou who got quite a lot of formulations out of a board without taking any deep breaths. Yesterday we saw how the Left Party took another step in creating more polarisation and more sandbox in the Riksdag at a rather difficult time. They put ultimatum to the government to respond within 48 hours. It took barely two minutes before you were told whether Sweden should have an extra choice or not. But I look forward to the continuation of that journey and how the Left Party will deal with its ultimatums in the future. But, Madam President, that is not what I was going to talk about. What is important in this debate is the last 16 months with a pandemic that has swept across our country and put the whole of society in the face of enormous trials. Since the pandemic swept in, nothing is the same anymore. It's been a trying time. More than 14 500 people have died in Sweden alone. Many have lost loved ones and loved ones. Also, many have not been able to say good - bye to them because of the restrictions. Many elderly people have been isolated in their homes or in retirement homes. And the realization of how widespread involuntary loneliness has been is heartbreaking. Young people have not been able to experience student parties, running out of primary school or upper secondary school and receptions to celebrate that they actually got a degree – formal moments that we are normally used to during this part of the year. However, exposure has also been expressed in many other ways, Madam President. We've seen pictures of desperate people lining up to get food stamps. People have lost their jobs, and entrepreneurs have seen their life's work go up in smoke without being able to save them. The industries that have taken the most pains during the pandemic are mainly culture, sport, the restaurant industry, the tourism industry, the hotel industry and the taxi industry. It is also particularly in these sectors that people have lost their jobs – mainly young, low-skilled and foreign-born. These are three groups which normally have a rather weak link to the labour market. We in the Liberals, together with our partner party the Center Party and the government, have presented countless crisis packages to save as many companies as we have been able to. It has been about protecting jobs so that no more people become unemployed. We have strengthened welfare, education, the judiciary, health care and care for the elderly, and we have taken several measures to reduce the economic downturn. We have strengthened the social safety nets to provide security and for more people to survive in this difficult time. We have opened the unemployment fund to those who are not members so that they do not feel financially insecure. We have also opened up health insurance for those with poor conditions of employment, not least hourly workers in care for the elderly, so that they do not feel financially insecure when they are at home in illness. In fact, this should not be something that needs to be highlighted in the debate. Regardless of which parties had been in a government under a world pandemic, I think everyone would have acted exactly the same. It is a matter of ensuring that economic development does not go down, in order to save businesses from bankruptcy and protect jobs so that more people do not become unemployed. Madam President, I would like I am proud that my party has taken responsibility, although we have had to pay a high price for our responsibility. However, as I have also said on other occasions, I am also grateful that it has worked so well in the cooperation between the eight parties in Parliament – although it is now apparent that we are entering an election year and that the tone is beginning to change. It is worth repeating once again that there are substantial differences between being a pure opposition party and being a party that is part of a cooperation. If you are in opposition, you can step in and take responsibility when you please, but if you form the basis for a government budget, you take responsibility all the way. That is exactly what we in the Liberals have done. Madam President, I would like We're starting to see the light in the tunnel. However, even though more and more people are being vaccinated and restrictions are beginning to ease, we will not be able to return to normality. We will be affected by the pandemic for quite a long time, and anyone who thinks we can return to normal is mistaken. Of course, we see that the economy is beginning to recover in certain parts of the labour market, but the historically high unemployment rate cannot be taken with a heel kick. Nor can we take the major problems of welfare lightly. We have seen how the deficiencies in care for the elderly have been visible during the pandemic and how school closures and distance learning have affected pupils' knowledge and psychosocial health. We have seen the health care on our knees – right now, a whole profession is on the brink of burnout after 16 months of hard work to save human lives. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to become a safe country for all people to live in, we must deal once and for all with the crime that spreads out in society. We must work hard against the gang criminals who are spreading terror and tormenting the lives of so many innocent people, not least in our socially vulnerable areas. However, it requires that we are prepared to give the judiciary the necessary tools and that we are not dependent on the security services of other countries in order to put the bad guys in jail. If we are to solve many of the social problems that have been exacerbated during the crisis, it still requires a high level of reform, but the acute crisis lies in bringing down the high unemployment rate so that no more people become long-term unemployed. Therefore, I am genuinely provoked when I repeatedly hear the Swedish Finance Minister find the solution in raising taxes for ordinary people rather than making sure that more people get into work. I agree with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson that we need to reduce the class gaps and allocate more money to welfare for it to work and be there for everyone, but the recipe cannot be to increase capital taxes, reintroduce the old property tax or go after the savings that hardworking people have built up during a whole career to create a secure future. Madam President, I would like I will overtake my registered speaking time; I will say it at once. The only way to reduce class gaps is to allow more people to make class trips – that the school becomes the community institution that guarantees all children access to a good education and the same life chances regardless of the parents' background or the thickness of their wallet. Liberals will continue to put school first, because that is the basis for a well-functioning society. That is the guarantee that today's young people will become tomorrow's workers. The school is the ticket to a future and to individual freedom. I am proud that the Liberals have put an end to all tax increases during this term of office and that we have forced the government to reduce taxes on the incomes of wage earners. We have strengthened Swedish business and created better conditions for entrepreneurship in Sweden. But it seems that the Social Democrats are ashamed of the policies they have pursued with us. It must, of course, stand for them, but the Liberals will never contribute to a policy of fiscal shock for the country's wage earners or small entrepreneurs, who are important employers. Liberals will never accept a policy that does not reward savings for people who go to work every day – who work hard, take responsibility and set off a small part of their salary every month to secure their pension. In particular, it is important for women's economic freedom that this possibility continues to exist. Madam President, I would like When we meet again after the summer, there will be one year left until the parliamentary elections. As proud as I am of the cooperation I have had with the Center Party and the government, I am equally anxious to bring about a change of power. No government that has been in power for two terms of office can hold a high pace of reform, not even the Social Democrats. Moreover, they are now threatening to tear up all the important liberal reforms that my party has pushed through during this parliamentary term, and we take that threat seriously. It is also about democracy. No prosperous democracy benefits from the fact that the same party governs the country for long periods of time. I do not want a return to the 20th century, when the Social Democrats could subscribe to state power. That is why we will be presenting our last draft budget this autumn, and then the January agreement will be dissolved in an orderly manner. Then we go to elections on a liberal reform agenda where we put the school first and change tracks for integration so that the exclusion that affects immigrants in particular is broken. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee. I came in for a dramatic time and have not had a physical meeting, but hopefully that will change this autumn. I hope that we can meet in a more pleasant way. I would also like to thank all the committee officials who have taken care of me in a very good and professional way and helped me when I have needed it. Madam President, I would like Of course, I would also like to thank all the Presidents, and the whole of the Bureau, for ensuring that the work has been continued in the fortress of democracy and that we have not had to cancel it. Have a nice summer, all of you!
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-599	Madam President, I would like It has been a different year in almost every way. This debate is about Sweden's budget and economic orientation and how it has adapted to a different time. There are many measures that have been taken. The support measures during the pandemic have cost about SEK 400 billion so far, and globally the pandemic has cost the world about SEK 85 trillion. Madam President, I would like It has been debated for several hours here about raising or lowering taxes. There has been a debate between the January Contracting Parties and the opposition. There has been a debate on market rents, the situation of businesses and health care. I will therefore highlight issues that have not been addressed and devote my speech to them – not because the others are not important, but I would like to highlight issues that have not been addressed. Madam President, I would like One of the most important things about a disaster is to learn: How do we not end up here again? And if something similar should happen again, how can we mitigate the effects? We all see with joy and relief the light in the tunnel, with increased vaccination and relieved restrictions. But the fragility of society cannot be vaccinated. We need to look at risks and flaws with open eyes. In order to reduce the risk of pandemics, I would like to remind you once again of their origin and root cause, namely our disrespectful way of dealing with animals and nature. Today, there are an estimated 1.7 million unknown viruses in mammals and birds. Up to 827,000 of these are believed to be able to infect humans. About 75 percent of the new infectious diseases we receive originate from animals. Then why is this happening? Well, when animals are crammed together in an unnatural way and put in cages, the risk of the viruses being transmitted increases. This is true both in animal industries and in the shrinking wild. The more we squeeze together species through exploitation at the expense of their welfare and ecosystems, the greater the risk that we will soon see again the viral forces that we have so well known over the past year. Madam President, I would like Working preventively in politics is unfortunately not very profitable, but it would save a lot of suffering and many lives. Preventing and preserving biodiversity, respecting animal welfare and ensuring that the habitats of different species remain is one of the most effective ways of limiting and reducing the risk of pandemics in the future. It would also save us huge sums of money. I would also like to remind you that the risk of viruses that can go from animal to human is not only present on the wetmarkets on the other side of the world, but it is also a risk with mink farms and cage hens and with the animal husbandry we also have in Sweden. Madam President, I would like For me, animal welfare and species conservation in the name of honesty are primarily about a moral obligation to which we need to respond. Even for those in this House and in Swedish politics who do not share this view, it should now be clear that the disrespectful way in which we deal with animals and nature will affect people. Madam President, I would like If, however, a pandemic should occur, we need to be equipped. It's about resilience, our society's ability to survive. The level of self-sufficiency must be increased, both in terms of food supply and in terms of energy supply. Today one can say a little simplistically that every other bite we eat in Sweden is imported. This compares with Finland, which has a self-sufficiency rate of 80 per cent. In a troubled world, the degree of self-sufficiency will quickly become decisive. Civil preparedness needs to be strengthened, and civil society needs conditions to be able to assist society – especially in times of crisis. We also need an active policy. It is now that we must move forward with new proposals and strong visions based on values other than the fact that an exponentially growing economy is the goal and that we have a dominance logic that is reflected both in the capitalist economic system and in our active contribution to the climate crisis and natural crisis. Madam President, I would like In a globalised world, crises have consequences across national borders. It is therefore important that we also look beyond our own relatively safe neighbourhood and support other countries, so-called developing countries. I deeply regret how the Swedish Democrats consistently cut back on aid. Regardless of what one feels about our moral responsibility and how far it goes, it should be clear that national boundaries are a social construct that does not matter to viruses. Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party do not want to roll back in old tracks and continue business as usual. The question is not whether but when the next crisis will come. We already know that the climate crisis will be more and more reminded. The extinction of species will make our ecosystems weaker and more sensitive. We in the Green Party are not so naive as to think that this will not affect us and our societies. Many good things have been done by the government during this time. There has been an investment in nature and green jobs, and all over the world there is talk of a green hand. But it is a time for learning and for transition – a green transition that represents other visions. There, happiness and well-being can be prioritised within the boundaries of nature and the planet, and we use economy in its proper sense, that is, the management of limited resources. We need to prioritise long-termism over short-termness. We need to remove environmentally harmful subsidies, use taxes to achieve our environmental objectives and invest in and facilitate investments in environmental solutions and environmentally friendly companies. It is necessary that we really legislate away the worst type of exploitation of both animals and nature. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and wishing everyone a wonderful summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-617	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the economic policy guidelines. I believe that Sweden needs a completely different direction from the current neoliberal economic policy. The majority of the Swedish people deserve a fairer and fairer Sweden. It is against most, not against the few, that the pandemic has struck in Sweden. The care of the elderly has not been able to protect our elderly. The medical system is on its knees. Most of the working people have carried the country on their shoulders, often without adequate disease protection. Unemployment has skyrocketed. For the few in the top layer, however, it goes nicely. State aid has been distributed to shareholders in large companies such as Volvo and H & M. Exchange rates continue upwards. Tenths at the top are least affected by the rise in unemployment. The government maintains the neoliberal line in the fiscal framework. In practice, this means austerity, cuts and sales of welfare. The government budget will return to surplus. If one is to tighten up, one cannot pursue any policy for the majority. There will be crumbs from the government for most, such as measures against littering and an investment in close to nature jobs for young people. Over SEK 400 billion in various support measures has been decided by the government during the pandemic, mostly to the private business sector, which in several cases has spent the money on dividends to shareholders. When EU cooperation must be held under the arms of 150 billion to a corona fund, there is also no lack of funds. When the few need money, the government opens the wallet. The government's policy is, of course, based on the neo-liberal idea that the role of the public in the economy should be limited, that the economy exists in order for private capital to be able to make profits. Unfortunately, the changes that the majority of the Swedish people want, such as non-profit welfare companies in health care, school and care, lack the majority here in Parliament. In fact, it is sad that the Social Democrats so fully share the bourgeois view of society's economy. As a socialist, I reject the fiscal framework and neo-liberal ideology. The economy is there for the people, not the other way around. It's supposed to serve the majority, not the few. It is time to move towards an offensive economic policy for work, security and housing for all. Economic policy should be oriented towards full employment by all productive forces. The government budget is allowed to go in deficit so that the target is reached. We're going to get out of unemployment. Anyone who wants and can have a full-time job with a reasonable and contractual salary. A programme of public emergency work is to be established in which all those unable to find a job elsewhere are to be offered permanent employment. If the government had spent 400 billion on emergency work during the pandemic, we would not have stood at almost 10% unemployment now. Even during the pandemic, we see how unemployment affects women. In the spring economic bill, the government states that recovery is clearer among men than among women. Today's policy is also an unforgivable waste of resources. If women worked full-time to the same extent as men, Sweden's GDP would increase by approximately SEK 500 billion per year. If foreign-born women worked to the same extent as native women, public finances would be strengthened by SEK 37 billion. Madam President, I would like The right to work is also an important integration issue. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is more than three times higher than that of natives. The average of foreign births has lower economic standards than domestic births, as described in the distribution policy statement in the spring economic bill. We can afford to put people to work. We can no longer afford to waive that requirement. When everyone gets a job, we can continue to shorten working hours. The target is 30 hours of work week. People should be given more time to live their lives. I do not tolerate the government's policy of loosening employment protection. I will support a motion of censure on the government if such a proposal is made. Unless you as an employer can offer a secure and permanent employment with a good contractual salary, you have no future in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like Housing is a social right for the majority, not a commodity for the few. The right to housing must be guaranteed. Public utility is now to be renovated, and a large new production of public utility rentals is to take place. The right to housing is also a gender equality issue and an integration issue. The housing shortage particularly affects women with an immigrant background, but also women who want to leave a destructive relationship. The right to housing is also a key issue for young people. When we give our young people the right to housing, we help them to open the door to their future and ours. If you cannot offer a good dwelling for a reasonable rent as a landlord, you have no future in the Swedish housing market. I will, of course, vote in favour of a motion of censure on the government if the issue is raised on the grounds that it wants to introduce market rents. Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has shown us who are the real social bearers. It is those who work in health care, school and care. In the spring economic bill, however, there is no sign of the government's intention to permanently increase state subsidies to municipalities and regions in order to strengthen welfare. Well, well-being should provide security for everyone. Government grants to municipalities and regions will now gradually increase in order to achieve this objective. The school, care and care are for the people, the majority, not for big business, the few. The interest in profit should be removed from welfare. The welfare capitalists have no future in the Swedish market in Swedish welfare. Social protection systems will be strengthened. Sickness and unemployment insurance should provide security in the time of illness and adversity. A good and safe pension should be a matter of course. The pension agreement between S, MP and the bourgeois parties shall be demolished. A new pension scheme will be designed in the interests of most people. The Forena trade union has shown that the share of the general pension in the final salary is below 40% for all those born after 1992. Lower living standards or poverty await many after retirement, especially among women. It is shameful that Sweden has hundreds of thousands of poor pensioners today. The government also wants to raise the retirement age. This, too, is a policy for the few and not for the majority. It is time for a pension policy for the majority. No one should be poor because you're a pensioner and a woman. The general pension shall be equivalent to 80 % of the final salary. All pensioners must have at least 16 000 SEK a month left after tax. It is time for the majority to take charge of the construction of society. Major public investment will be made in a number of areas of welfare. Very large investments will be made in the housing sector. Road and rail networks shall be up to the top class. The capacity of electricity networks must be increased throughout the country. The energy and transport sectors will become fossil-free through public investment as soon as possible. It is not a balanced budget that should be the objective of economic policy; it should be a balanced economy and full employment by allowing large budget deficits until the targets are achieved. Increased taxes are not a means of achieving economic policy objectives. On the other hand, taxes have other important functions to perform. Through fiscal measures, we will radically increase equality in society. By means of targeted tax increases, we will, of course, take away the ability to buy political benefits. Increased taxation of the few means reducing the burden on climate and the environment, as the few at the top account for a disproportionate share of harmful emissions. The taxes should be radically increased for the tenth, i.e. the elite. On the annual income of those who earn more than 200 000 a month, the tax is to be 75 %. On the annual income of the person who earns more than SEK 400 000 per month, it should be 100 percent. A higher income is simply not a reasonable remuneration for any job. A wealth tax shall be levied on the largest wealth. A wealth exceeding 1,000 pris base amounts, about SEK 47 million, is taxed at 5 per cent. Madam President, I would like This is a policy for the majority. I support my follow-up motion for the 2021 Spring Economic Bill, but for the benefit of time I will not ask for its approval. I thank everyone very much and wish you a pleasant summer and leave.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-648	Madam President, I would like In this debate, we are also debating our amending budget for 2021. When I listen to the debate on the regular spring budget, I hear clearly that the pandemic naturally still has its bearing on the political debate. But I also think I hear a return, slowly but surely, to the problems that Swedish society had before the pandemic and still has. As we now hopefully see the beginning of the end and light in the tunnel, the debate will increasingly be marked by societal problems such as crime, clan and gang wars and welfare challenges. We will also see an increased focus on the social contract, that is, the agreement between citizens and states, where the latter will deliver reliable health care, a dignified old age and a secure everyday life, while taxpayers will contribute to the general. There is a balance between these two where you, as a taxpayer, expect you to get what you have paid for – no more and no less. Do your duty, demand your right, as we Swedish democrats say. What I want to focus on in this spring change budget is two policy areas in which, in our follow-up motion in this report, we believe that the government should have given a different priority to the needs of society. One of these needs is about security. Equal security and freedom for everyone in this country, no matter where you live, is a right. It is the Swedish state that, through its part of the social contract, must ensure that Swedish law applies everywhere, all the time. We have recently applauded international cooperation between law enforcement authorities, which resulted in several ongoing legal proceedings against criminal gangs. The French have broken the Encrochat encryption service, and the FBI and Europol have conducted Operation Trojan Shield, which has resulted in 800 criminals being arrested around the world. A less flattering figure for Sweden is that of these 800 criminals 155 Swedes – that is, a gross over-representation on a global scale. It is a severe blow to the so-called Sweden picture and a clear signal to the Swedish government that reinforcements of the Police Authority would have been in place. Madam President, I would like Reinforcements by the Police Authority are needed for several reasons. I mentioned clan wars at the beginning. If you google the word clan, you get the following description: ..................................................... The description fits rather well into the situation that we are currently seeing in Hjällbo in Gothenburg, where the criminal clans have become a real power factor in the local community. Civils have been executed, roadblocks have been set up and journalists have been prevented from carrying out their constitutionally protected activities. Last night, there was another shooting. This, of course, raises the question of whether the state actually lives up to its part of the community contract in Hjällbo. At least right now there's very little evidence of that. We therefore have an under-funded judiciary, we have areas in Sweden where the state cannot enforce Swedish law and we have a historic strike against organised crime – which Sweden has been served on a silver platter. However, the government does not see the needs that exist in budgetary terms because it adds zero crowns to the Police Authority in the spring change budget – zero crowns! I understand this as the government's view that it is doing enough to ensure the freedom and security of civilians in Sweden's vulnerable areas. I take it that the government's view is that the third lowest police density in the EU is satisfactory. And I take it that the government's view is that it can at least not get worse when Sweden now has the most shootings in Europe. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats make a clearer priority in order to guarantee the security of citizens and to ensure that we have the ability to act if society needs extra support. In view of the fact that it is not possible to propose increases in appropriations in an amending budget, we want the government to evaluate the allocation for the judiciary. Madam President, I would like The second need I want to highlight today is the need to give the right priority, that is, to spend the right money on the right things. That is why we want to see another evaluation, namely whether the size of the aid framework is too large. Of course, all expenditure in the state budget must be analysed and weighed against other priorities and needs. They must be balanced against those efforts that are not as a consequence of Sweden being the second largest contributor of international aid within the OECD. As a result of aid and the link with BNI, the cost has increased much more rapidly compared with the other spending areas of the state budget. In 2000, international aid amounted to approximately SEK 13 billion, and this year it will amount to SEK 47 billion. When the government delivers a spring change budget with zero SEK in addition to the Police Authority, and when the government talks about the holes in welfare, it should be clear to voters that there is not a lack of money because Sweden is only in the fourth highest tax burden in the world. There is a lack of money due to excessive expenditure in other areas, such as international aid. The sum of SEK 47 billion annually is in itself directly provocative when we have an underfunded justice system, when we have the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries and when we have record-long healthcare queues. It is not sustainable development. How many more cops in the streets and squares could we have got for this money? How many homeless people could we have covered our heads? How much more could we have invested in health care? These are the issues that hang in the air with this spring change budget. An answer to one of the questions may be found in today's first speech in this debate, in which I would like to recall that the figure of 88 000 nurses was mentioned for a roughly equivalent amount that I am talking about here, that is, SEK 47 billion. Instead, it is not an insignificant increase in welfare that the government is giving to international aid. My guess is that no government representative in this House will be asking for a reply to my speech and debating this issue – because it simply does not want to talk about it. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I am in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation and wish the President, Members and cabinet staff a wonderful summer.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-673	Madam President, I would like As a Social Democrat and chairman of the Committee on Justice, I am both happy and proud of the Swedish police. We're in the middle of a historic investment in the police. A great authority will be even greater. Basically, it is about us all, no matter who you are or where you live, being able to feel safe all hours of the day. The serious organised crime and gang crime in our country will be broken. Here, a growing police force, increased penalties, new powers in the form of, for example, secret data reading and strong international cooperation are incredibly important. After all the success of the spring with fewer shootings, hundreds of new prisoners, important progress in the fight against drugs, major trials with leading gang leaders behind bars and intel material that will allow more people to face the judiciary in the future, I wonder who is the most angry: Is it the many serious criminals who are now sitting on needles and just waiting for the police to knock on the door, or is it Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson? After last week's party leader debate, I think I know the answer. I can see why the Moderates are disappointed with the police's successful work. Of course, if people's legitimate concern for crime is to win the choice, it becomes complicated when the police succeed. In today's debate, I also believe that the mantra of the opposition will take place: it is too little, it is too late and, of course, everything would be better with another government. But let us remember that the reality today would have been different if, for example, the moderate-led government had not cut police training by 90 per cent or if, even during its government possession, the expansion of secret coercive measures in the form of HDA, to mention two important things that we have had to deal with during our government's possession. I'm proud of the Swedish police. Today, more than 1 000 more serious criminals are in custody than two years ago. Big gang trials are going on. It gives us a unique opportunity to continue society's offensive against gang crime and to push back serious organised crime. Madam President, I would like Over the last few years, we have given the police greatly increased opportunities to use secret coercive measures and access encrypted information. We are now giving the police more powers and looking at even more opportunities to use secret coercive measures. Through the committee initiative we are now discussing, a false majority in the committee wants to introduce secret coercive measures without suspicion of crime. It becomes even more problematic when you demand something without being able to say what it means or where the boundaries should be drawn. In addition, a proposal is being put forward which would have no effect whatsoever on the alleged effect. The result of today's committee initiative would not automatically be any French-American powers, as the media are trying to make it appear. It's not that simple. I am not prepared, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, to promote secret coercive measures without suspicion of crime on the basis of the limited evidence and knowledge available. It is not responsible to deal with difficult and complex issues in this way. That is also why we will be voting against the proposal. At the same time, the Moderates owe the answer: How should one, with what one so eagerly wants, ensure that not ordinary people, innocent hunters or people in vulnerable areas, are at risk of being bugged? Madam President, I would like The title of this report is Measures to improve the efficiency of the police. While the Police Authority is growing, it is of course also important to constantly see how we can streamline and strengthen the police's work. Here, further work to streamline police operations will be important. At the same time, we should be honest: There are no simple solutions that are not already made. Even if we ignore the monopoly of violence, which is unique to the Police Authority, and the availability 24:7, which few other authorities and actors match, any work, assignment or action that is moved from the police shall be carried out by someone else. This means either moving resources and staff from the Police Authority or adding new resources and new staff to other authorities. It is a reality that cannot be changed by an announcement. On the question of the capacity of the Defence Radio Institution to assist the Police Authority, I find it problematic that a majority in the committee chooses to include this sensitive issue in a draft announcement in our committee. To then establish that the FRA's capacity is undersized before the already agreed increases in appropriations included in the defence agreement for the coming years is more like a male gist than an actual analysis. Finally, I would just like to touch briefly on the last three points of the matter, in which, as a united committee, we point out the need to strengthen the protection of police data. Violence and threats against police and judicial staff are a serious problem, an attack on our common society and something we, as a society, can never accept. We also believe that the technical capacity of the police must be strengthened, that cooperation between the various authorities in our society must continue to be strengthened in order to prevent fraud against our common welfare system and that the successful joint work of the authorities against serious organised crime should be extended to more. Finally, I would like to ask for the adoption of paragraph 1 by a false majority.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-689	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to thank the Moderates and the others who have worked on the committee initiative on which we are now debating. Thanks to your hard work in putting pressure on the government on legal matters, more is happening than would otherwise have been the case. I am often impressed by many of the proposals presented. Sometimes I have points of view in detail, and sometimes I think that a single proposal is directly counterproductive. But it gives us a basis to develop politics from. And to be honest, the government would not have pushed ahead with some of the important reforms that are now under way. Sometimes I have expressed a little disappointment that, according to my view, the Moderates prematurely left the cross-block talks that then led to the 34-point program against gang violence. But if there were no political pressure from the Moderates and others, there would have been no talks at all. The most important issue today is the issue of allowing the use of secret coercive measures without any suspicion of crime. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party are sceptical about the proposal for a number of reasons. I shall say, Madam President, that I do not rule out that this is a method which, under certain conditions, could be effective, but at the same time there are a lot of risks with the proposal that need to be taken seriously. First of all, we must understand that it is extremely difficult in a legislative text to limit its application to just a few criminal gangs. I understand exactly what kind of gangs are meant. It's about a certain type of individuals in some parts of the country. But that is not how a legal text can be formulated. There is a great risk that the definition will either be too narrow, so that almost no criminals meet, or that it will be so broad that virtually anyone can be subject to wiretaps. If you turn this around, you can of course ask yourself whether it is so serious if the definition is so broad that anyone can be bugged. Privacy is important, and it understands everyone. I'll get back to it. But there are also reasons for efficiency. One should know that it is resource-intensive to use secret coercive measures, and without a good criterion of discernment, our law enforcement authorities will spend a lot of time and money on efforts that risk leading nowhere. Is it that serious to be bugged? It is usually said that if you only have pure flour in the bag you have nothing to fear. But it is not that simple, Madam President. Friends, close friends for many years, can joke with each other on the phone in a way that is both gross and inappropriate. There can be said things that the two who understand the conversation are not serious but that a person who secretly listens can interpret as an indication of serious crimes. It can be said that a preliminary investigation must be initiated. Hopefully, no one will ever be innocently convicted, but just being served suspicion of crime would at least be a very unpleasant event for me. What if it goes so far that the suspect is arrested and detained? What would it do to someone who is innocently affected by it and must be away from work and away from his family and children? No, Dad can't pick up from football because he's in custody. What does that mean for the children? This may sound like an absurd description taken from a Kafkaroman, but it happens. It is happening in Sweden, and it has done so recently. Madam President, I would like What if you turn the steak around again? Is it really so dangerous if some innocent person gets caught in the net? If you're innocent, you'll still be released after a while. Perhaps it would be worth the risk if there were good support for the effectiveness of the method and if there were no alternative ways of achieving the same increase in law enforcement capabilities that would not involve the same risks. But the answer to my first question is no. There is a lack of research support for the method to be effective. Maybe it is, but there is no research support. And the answer to my second is yes. There are alternative ways that are both more accurate and reliable. It should be added that the proposers also want mandatory detention for many more crimes, regardless of whether the risk of relapse or collusion is considered to exist, and want there to be no limit to how long someone can be detained. Madam President, I would like The police and the prosecutors are doing an amazing job, and we should trust them to use the tools they have at their disposal in a responsible and correct way. But they are people just like everyone else, and people make mistakes. We must construct laws based on that insight and set clear limits as far as possible. I can buy that you value these risks differently than I do, but in the debate that has been going on so far, the proposers do not even seem to admit that the risks exist. Madam President, I would like There is some confusion about the proposal that is before us. Several political representatives have stood up to allow themselves to be irradiated by the honour of the police operation Trojan Shield. You can think what you want about it, but it was primarily hard, smart and innovative police work, not justice policy. Some seem to think that Trojan Shield was about what we are now discussing, that is, secret coercive measures without suspicion of crime, but it is a truth with a substantial modification. Trojan Shield was primarily based on evidence provocation, which is something that is already permitted in Swedish law. The proposal we are debating right now has nothing to do with Trojan Shield. Don't think anything else. Another misunderstanding that is perhaps more or less deliberately cultivated is that the Center Party does not want to introduce measures that are privacy-deficient. Let me be absolutely clear: we are prepared to go a long way to break the gangs. Action will be required to blur both personal integrity and important principles. But we do not intend to contribute to what we do not think is better than the alternative solutions that exist. Finally, Madam President, I would like to share a general reflection. Cooperation is not so bad. Our combined knowledge is greater than the sum of its parts. The proposal which is now the subject of this sometimes rather animated debate could have been so much better if we could have shown one another a little more humility.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-710	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are good at drawing up different kinds of lines of conflict in the field of justice policy. Sometimes they also get lucky with the timing n. Just when this committee initiative was to be dealt with in the Committee on Justice, the police, Europol and the FBI told us about the big bust they made against criminal gangs, called Trojan Shield. And the Moderates are not late on the ball but allow this proposal to blend smoothly with a proposal to increase the police's ability to bring down even more criminals. But reality is not that simple. The Moderates' proposal to introduce preventive interception will not mean mass arrest of criminals. Because this is not a well thought-out proposal, or even true. Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson published a picture on the Moderate's Facebook page on June 9 where it said: This is a very big slip on the truth scale, because Swedish police have to listen to criminals. There are so many possibilities for the police to use secret data readings, telephone tapping and a number of secret coercive measures that the Moderates have been involved in pushing through. The police may also use criminal provocation and evidence provocation. I find it difficult to understand who benefits from painting Swedish police as they stand completely without the authority to stop gang crime. Rather, Swedish police are well equipped to both participate in and lead international raids together with Europol and the FBI. 155 detainees in the operation in Sweden alone clearly show that the Swedish police have useful methods. The Moderates' proposal is therefore a change to the law on preventive interception, which means that a suspected crime that can be specified in time and place should not be required, but that a prosecutor should be able to identify a concrete criminal network and direct secret coercive measures there. Madam President, I would like The interception shall be possible without suspicion of a criminal offence against persons who are part of a criminal network. There is currently no legal definition of what a criminal network is. And we have learned in these years that networks one day shoot at each other and the next day become friends. The criminal networks are precisely networks and very difficult to define. Listening to people without a criminal suspicion should cause any liberal-minded person to shrink back. The state should not intercept its citizens without believing itself to know that a crime has been committed. It's so brutally easy to grasp. The individual should always be protected from the state's abuse. When this has not happened historically, it has also gone bad. That is why we have a form of government on fundamental rights and freedoms and a European Convention on Human Rights. It should also be added that it is already possible for the police to engage in interception of persons without suspicion of crime, but only if this is done to prevent acts of terrorism or espionage. Madam President, I would like This is a proposal that would probably lead to very little workshop but very much legal blunder. This is a proposal that sort of backs off into the future. What is needed instead is to give the police the resources to develop their digital skills. I want to see a sharper police officer who has the digital ability to decrypt apps himself and who can do effective online reconnaissance and law enforcement work. Let's call it a cyber crime unit or give it some other fucked-up name. Crime is digital while politicians are calling for more cops in the squares. To crack gang crime, we need to get the money, the drugs and the guns. We therefore need to access encrypted communications. Säpos Klas Friberg wrote yesterday at DN Debate that he wants to see increased access to encrypted information and that the law on HDA was a step in that direction but that more is needed. Friberg sees that law enforcement authorities today have little or no access to encrypted information. I find it difficult as politicians to grasp what digital capacity law enforcement agencies actually have. The good functioning of Noah shows international cooperation with Europol. But is it the case that Swedish police are sitting with secret data readings and that it stops when you encounter an encrypted mobile phone or a communication app? It seems to be just like that. I would also like to make it clear that the police authorities want to be able to use preventive wiretaps. If I were the chief police officer, my wet dream would also be to be able to listen very broadly, especially when the situation with gang crime looks like it does. But I think that we, as politicians, as legislators, can make greater demands on the police's leadership. We can demand proposals from the police that are not just about more wiretapping and harder gripping. There is no other authority that has received as much resources as the police have received. Nor is there any other authority that constantly calls for other legislation instead of using the resources that Parliament has given them. And those resources are many, large and extremely concrete. Parliament is not a place where you go with your wish list of new legislation. Legislation exists. The police must use it, develop police working methods and work in the best way possible. Then the wish list can come – possibly. With the Swedish legislation we have today, the Trojan Shield operation could have been carried out by the Swedish police, with secret coercive measures and with criminal provocation. On the other hand, I have more doubts as to whether the police could have decrypted the communications contained in the apps. It's a skill I'm asking for the Swedish police to have. Madam President, I would like However, the Moderates' proposal is a form of false marketing, on the one hand, on what legislation already exists today, on what methods the police get and cannot use, and on what effect the Moderates' proposals could have. I am pleased that the proposal on the preventive interception will not go through today, that the Parliament will reject it. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-725	Madam President, I would like The police authority, together with other judicial authorities, had for a long time too little resources and not enough tools. For a long time there were too few places in police training and insufficient salaries and conditions for police officers, which made too few people go there. In addition, there was a necessary but extremely resource-intensive and difficult reorganisation where the police went from being a large number of county police authorities to a single national police authority. It is and has been a long journey. There have been major changes. It has actually come a good way, although much remains to be done. Madam President, I would like The national target of 10,000 more police officers by 2024 is an important element. This, combined with better conditions for police workers, better opportunities to cooperate and interact with other authorities, more tools and elements such as strengthening schools, social services and other authorities, helps to equip and equip the police and the judiciary in recent years. The police authorities in Sweden and the Police Authority are very active. That's very good. It takes initiatives, takes leading roles in international cooperation and tests new ways of working. There is an innovation force and impressive flexibility. The police are also open about what you need to sharpen your job even more. The head of the Swedish Police has previously expressed what is needed in the form of preventive work so that new young guys will not be recruited to the leading positions in the gang environment when those who are higher up in the hierarchy are caught. The need for regulatory changes and other things has also been addressed on several occasions. Madam President, I would like I think that we should be politically sensitive to the needs of the authorities. The police are by no means an exception. I also see that most people in this House are. The issue that has been raised in the debate on secret data reading, which came about a year ago, is a need that the police have seen and that we got into. And it has been used more during this first year than was considered necessary in the investigation and preparation phase. However, being sensitive does not mean that we, as politicians, can unconditionally say yes to everything that the authorities want. Some needs can be solved in other ways. Other proposals pose disadvantages that make us not want them if they are in conflict with other things that we want politically. Madam President, I would like As regards the report we are now discussing, the committee initiative on measures to improve the efficiency of the police, the government and Parliament actually do most of what is mentioned in the points in the report. Raising the role of the police, strengthening the police's working conditions and analysing the capacity of the judicial authorities are areas where work is under way, and there have been concrete changes. That is why announcements are superfluous. There is no political contradiction in those parts. Madam President, I would like There are, however, some on which we do not agree. This applies to the possibility of using secret coercive measures even if there is no real suspicion of a crime. That possibility exists today with regard to terrorist crimes and espionage, but it is limited to that. An investigation has been set up to review the use of secret coercive measures. It's due in April next year. One should be very careful to monitor citizens without suspicion, and one should take those parts seriously as they deserve. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-734	Madam President, I would like It is not the first time that I or anyone else is standing in this speaker's chair and says that we have a very worrying situation in Sweden linked to gang crime. It is almost difficult to launch a debate on this subject without that very start. Unfortunately, that is what it looks like in Sweden today. We have growing insecurity. We have a juvenile criminality that is spreading further and further down the age range. We also have a criminality that, unfortunately, is becoming increasingly crude. Sweden is sticking out, and we are doing it the wrong way. Just a few days ago, new statistics showed that Sweden is now at the top of Europe – and not only now, but over a long period of time – in the unmerciful competition, if you call it that, about deadly violence. So we are at the top of Europe. I think that one can stay for a second and think about this. Why is that? How is it, Madam President, that the country in which we are lucky to live, which in so many ways is so amazing, which has so hardworking people, committed residents and fantastic businesses and which is in the absolute world summit in so many areas, is at the same time so badly negative in terms of deadly violence, gross crime and the insecurity that plagues this country? The answer to that question is complex. But it is undoubtedly the case that one of the answers is a legal policy that has not been tough enough, has not been clear enough and has not done enough in time to put the situation right and to prosecute the criminals. I think we have seen a number of examples of this here today. Now I do not know how much Fredrik Lundh Sammeli affects the government's legal policy, but I still find it interesting that social democrats so openly take on the blinds, put their heads in the sand and, in fact, in every area, turn a blind eye to the crime and insecurity that it is enough, Madam President, to open any newspaper in order to be able to take part of. It may also be enough to open your own email basket, I think, or watch any TV show. This is very symptomatic. It is symptomatic of the whole government's legal policy. You refuse to see this insecurity. It's almost a joke. People are trying to make fun of themselves in a situation where we have a lack of security that has never been as great as it is today and where so many people are getting so bad because of the criminal gangs that this government has for so long been so incapable of dealing with. This lack of interest has perhaps previously been reserved for the Green Party in particular. I can only conclude that it has now also found its way into the Social Democrats. That, Madam President, is something I regret. When the government is unable to do what is necessary, when you preach about beautiful weather all the time, no matter what the reality is, then the opposition has to come in. That is what has happened in this case. We've gone very methodically. We have invited the chief of police to the Justice Committee and asked a simple question. What is it that the police need to get the situation right now? What is it that is required right now to make Sweden as safe and secure as we probably all want Sweden to be? What's it gonna take to break the criminal gangs? We got a long list of proposals, and these are exactly the proposals we chose to put into this committee initiative – no more or less than that. These are precisely the proposals that the Chief of Police came up with and put on his list and gave to all members of the Committee on Justice. The answer of the red-green parties is that this is not necessary and that we can therefore vote against everything. Well, that's one way of thinking, isn't it? The question I think the Swedish people will have to ask themselves is this: who really knows best how to investigate crimes and what it takes to do so? Is it the police, or is it the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party? Who really knows best about these issues? Madam President, I would like The hypocrisy is perfected to an almost comical degree when we see ministers on ministers so openly applaud and almost do the wave when other countries provide us with materials that allow police and prosecutors here at home to prosecute the heavy criminals. Then it's amazing. You call a press conference. You even go out in the media and tell about this amazing thing before the police can do it. But to give Swedish police and Swedish prosecutors the opportunity to use what is called preventive or pro-active coercive measures at a much earlier stage, and to which the police have actually requested, they say no. It is a hypocrisy of a rare nature. Obviously it's not only okay, but it's really great that other countries give us information. But you should certainly not give this kind of opportunities for proactive interception to our Swedish police. It's an argument that doesn't stick together. The government says you keep all the doors open. We've heard that. But what the Social Democrats are really doing today is to show that the only door that is open is the back door. There you sneak out by voting in favour of rejecting not just one but all the proposals that the police have made to us members of the Swedish Parliament's Committee on Justice in the midst of a burning crisis of security. They will vote against the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. It's nothing but hypocrisy. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the parties with whom we have had good cooperation during the process. Both the Christian Democrats and the Liberals have been involved in this committee initiative, and we have presented it together. We have a very good cooperation. I would also like to thank the Swedish Democrats, who have chosen to support the initiative and who are also a driving force to ensure that the government does what it should do and to develop new policies. I would also like to thank the Center Party, which has chosen on several points to support this initiative, not least when it comes to redeploying police activities, improving the conditions of employment of police officers and making an assessment of the capacity of the whole judicial system. These are extremely important things. At the same time, of course, I regret that the Center Party chose not to vote in favour of what was perhaps the most important request of the chief police officer, namely to ensure that an opportunity is created for proactive interception. I would like to stress that what we are considering here today is not concrete legislation. Sometimes it has almost sounded like that in the debate. As in all other areas, the legislation must also be examined. Then there is the time and opportunity to bump and wet proposals and to produce detailed answers to the many objections that I understand, of course, are there – I am fully aware of that. Nevertheless, I believe that it will prove to be a mistake to vote against this legislation, with which the police are so clear, if we are serious about combating serious crime and if it is to mean something, Madam President, and not just a confession of the lips. To conclude, I would like to thank our police officers for the incredibly important work they do every day in Sweden to prosecute criminals, restore our victims and make Sweden a safer country.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-752	Madam President, I would like I agree with Johan Forssell's description of the serious situation in Sweden and the criticism he makes. But given the serious situation in Sweden, I am repeatedly surprised by all the proposals the Moderates put forward and how shallow they actually are. It usually seems to be an idea that comes to mind quite quickly and then sends it to the Committee on Justice. I think it is evident from this proposal that there is a lot of copy-paste from the police about what the police want and what the police would like to do but that it is not really connected with the Moderates' view of what the police are. On the one hand, it seems that the Moderates are in the police ligaments. They send things in, and you nod and say, "Well, this is what we're going to do right away. That's how politics can be done. Maybe I don't think it's the best way. On the other hand, when I follow your party colleagues, you want to put the military in Gothenburg to help the police. Maybe it's some 18-year-olds doing some kind of military service you want to put in to help the police. That's an interesting thought. Maybe that's not the solution I see. Instead, in Stockholm, you want to put in security guards and have far more security guards who in no way have the police training that I believe you should have in order to create security and curb gang crime. How are the Moderates doing? Do you trust the police at all? Do the Moderates think the police can do their job?
i-4XSmkCPfVvn7NacbwACPTF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Westerlund Snecker, for the question! The short answer to the question is that we have a great deal of confidence in our police. We have that both for the police leadership and for all the guys and girls who choose to put on the uniform and do a very difficult but important job. On the other hand, what we do not have confidence in is their preconditions. We are controlling these conditions in this House. It is about budgetary decisions, but it is also about concrete legislation. It is a responsibility that cannot be left to anyone else. It is we, as legislators and politicians, who must be prepared to take a step forward and assume that responsibility. Our reform work in this area has been very careful. It is now almost a year since we highlighted the pro-active interception proposal. We highlighted it last autumn. If you're going to be a little careful with the time count, we brought it up before the police. It is perhaps a little difficult to say that we are in the police's ligaments, although I have no problem saying that I am a listening politician. It is clear that, as I said in my introduction, we need to consider: who knows best what is needed to combat crime? I think we should respect all those who wear the uniform and all the other people who are in the judicial system. They often know a lot more than we do in this House. Then it is our job as politicians to weigh different interests against each other. There may, of course, be other aspects of things. This may involve issues of legal certainty or integrity. It may also affect other policy areas. We must strike that balance. However, I am firmly convinced that it will be considerably more difficult to strike that balance in a good way if you choose to turn a deaf ear from the outset. At a time when we have the record-breaking insecurity that we actually have, I do not think it is really responsible to just turn down the things that the police have brought to us and what they are asking for.
i-3Z2GErxGjqpYVwj2UPZ9Ed	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the answers! I find it difficult to see that you have struck that balance with regard to the proposal on preventive interception. What you are saying now is wise, but that is not what the Moderates' proposal contains. What I do not get answers to relates to the other proposals and whether you really trust the Swedish police at all. On the one hand, you want to create quite far-reaching possibilities in the law to primarily tap the population of Sweden without having just struck a balance about what that would mean. On the other hand, you want to put the military in Gothenburg and security guards in Stockholm. What kind of politics do the Moderates really do? Why don't you trust the police's work in Gothenburg or Stockholm to work under the police's authority? That makes me very worried. What the Moderates say in the Swedish Parliament does not seem to be consistent with how the police should work in the Swedish big cities. How do you mean that the police work will work in Stockholm and Gothenburg when the Moderates obviously do not really believe that the police can do their work at all? I trust them in uniform. I trust all Swedish police officers who have taken a solid education. Through proposals from the Left Party, which the Moderates support, they will also have a better working environment, among other things. These are very important suggestions. But to suggest military help in Gothenburg and security guards in Stockholm is to be out on really dangerous land. I would like answers to those questions.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-772	Madam President, I would like It's not about us not trusting the police. It is about our not trusting the government, the government that has been allowed to rule this country for the last three years and whose only historical reputation will be a long series of failures. Or to speak Stefan Lövven's language: We did not see it coming. Madam President, I would like That is the effect of it. Municipalities have a crying police shortage, even crisis in many ways. We can take Stockholm as an example. There are fewer police officers in external service today than it was five years ago. They are therefore fewer in number despite a growing population, despite shootings that have become commonplace and despite a growing drug crime. There we see the results of what this government is doing. Then you can take two positions. You can either sit back and say, "That's for someone else to fix, we're not gonna care too much about it." Or you can take a step forward and say: let us do what we can to still create security for citizens here and now. Then I think the long-term answer to this will be to recruit more police officers. There are, for example, questions about the targeted pay and the paid police training. The government has not yet responded to what will happen to it, and neither does the Left Party, I think. I will return to the question of the proactive interception. If you read our proposal, we have described very carefully how we want it to work. It should be remembered that legislation already exists today. Today, we are receiving information from several other countries without any legal certainty mechanisms whatsoever. Who's actually been bugged? How did that happen? None of what the critics have wanted is in that material today. And yet it's obviously great that we get it. Madam President, I would like With our proposal, there is an opportunity to set up just that kind of legal certainty mechanisms. It could be an annual check back to Parliament and all the parties in this House. Then we can also regulate it. We must take that opportunity. The need for that has been very clear to the police.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-779	Madam President, I would like I lost count of how many times Johan Forssell repeated the word hypocrisy. I am getting rather tired of the high tone and the constant pursuit of political conflict in this area that would really need a common pool of forces. I can only regret that the Moderates were the first to leave the gang talks two years ago. They were an important part of the work on how we strengthen the rule of law in post-reform reform. But what I never heard was about what the Moderates owe the answer. How will you ensure that ordinary people, innocent people in vulnerable areas, are not at risk of being bugged? At the same time, the Moderates are pushing proposals that they say are matching with the system that other countries have with strong and broad efforts. I think the Moderates are misleading with their proposal. They say first: give the Swedish police French authority. They then put forward a proposal that does not give this and does not in the same way encapsulate what is being done in France. This committee initiative would not give those results or those powers either. How do you ensure that it doesn't happen to innocent people?
i-D4Awx7idoDhceVmTcTQo5b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, for the question! I am, of course, sorry if Fredrik Lundh Sammeli is tired of my rhetoric. I can testify that I – and I think I speak for large parts of the Swedish people – am very tired of the government's paralysis and the recurring attitude: Beautiful weather! We see nothing, and we hear nothing, even though Sweden is now tops the list of killings in Europe. This is how the country looks in June 2021. When it comes to our bill, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli can begin by reading our motion. I note that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli does not really seem to have done so. We are dealing with this particular type of element. We describe how we want this to happen in a parliamentaryly controlled form. It's about giving feedback to the Riksdag. It is a question of setting up this kind of legal certainty mechanisms. It is lacking today in the material that both Morgan Johansson and Mikael Damberg have applauded so happily and almost made the wave for. None of this is there. But we Moderates have thought about it. We do this a little more carefully than the government seems to have power and energy to do. We have said that it is important that this is handled very carefully. In concrete terms, it is a question of producing legislation that specifically involves active gang members. It is a matter of ensuring that it is not the police and prosecutors who make these decisions. Just as it is today when it comes to decisions on secret interception, it is a court, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, that will make those decisions. I wonder what kind of view it is of the rule of law the Social Democrats have if they fail Swedish courts. I would like to give you some good advice: do not wander along that path! It is also possible to imagine several other mechanisms in such an investigation as we have pointed out. However, I regret that the Social Democrats here today choose to vote against this and to sneak out the back door. I'm sorry about that.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-788	Madam President, I would like The situation is serious in our country. I believe that the whole political group in this Parliament shares this view. This is not something that has come overnight; it is a development that has been going on for a long time in our country. Policy is obliged to focus on strengthening both law enforcement and prevention. I have said many times in this House that I see no difficulty in bringing together majorities for a stronger police force, stricter penalties and more resources, as we do time and again. But both the Moderates and many other parts of the opposition need to be better focused on crime prevention. The Head of the National Police is also very clear that it is not enough to fight the gangs, arrest and sentence long sentences if we are not able to stop the supply of new crime as well. We have a close and good dialogue with the Police Authority and other law enforcement authorities on these issues. There is also work going on to facilitate the use of secret coercive measures and to make it possible to do so on more occasions. At the same time, other speakers during the debate have been clear. It is not the committee initiative and the proposal that the Moderates are now putting forward by a false majority that has achieved the results we see in terms of strikes and encryptions that have been broken, for many reasons, although the Moderates would like to give that picture.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-791	Madam President, I would like I welcome the turnaround of Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, who now says that it is a very serious development in the country. I am the first to agree with that. The question is perhaps: why do you insist on saying no to the things that the police have brought to us in the Committee on Justice? They have said: These things we need to get things right. There is no clear stringency or consistency between the two world views – you have to say that. Politics is about changing society, and you can't do that with words or press hits. Had there been a lack of press meetings that had been Sweden's problem, all the problems would have been solved a long time ago, not least in the area of justice policy. Ultimately, it is about developing new legislation and ensuring that the laws we have are consistent and effective and that the justice system has the right resources. That is where the government is failing. If you don't believe in me, you can look at developments in society. Ask the Swedish people! Never before have the Swedish people felt such insecurity as is felt today. Sweden tops the list of killings in Europe or the deadly violence. Every day there are new shootings, and almost every day there are new explosions in this country. Things that a few years ago had led to extra broadcasts on TV, breaking news, become notice today. There Fredrik Lundh Sammeli and the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party have their say, after seven years of government. I would like to wish Fredrik Lundh Sammeli a happy summer. I take note of the words we were told that you have a very good contact with the police department. I hope that this contact in the future will mean that the Social Democrats in this House will not vote against the wishes and proposals that come from the police, but that they will do as we moderates, namely support them.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-796	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on measures to improve the efficiency of the police. The blows of this debate could almost be copied from almost all the criminal policy debates that we have had over the years with the Red-Green Government. Red-green representatives in this House say: we have done exactly everything perfectly. We have done much more than anyone else has done. No one could have done what we've done better. We've done everything perfectly. The red-green government has delivered. And what the opposition is asking is not needed. It's misdirected. It's unnecessary. It's misplaced and so on. At the same time, the biggest criticism coming from red-green governments and their representatives is that, for example, the Alliance Government did cut back on police training at the end of its term of office. We are now complaining about the word hypocrisy in the debate. What did the Social Democratic government do when they took power in 2014? If it was an urgent criticism against the former alliance government, which would explain why Sweden was in a situation with so few police officers in terms of the number of inhabitants, one might wonder: What did the Red Green Government do in 2014? Did the number of training places increase to train more police officers? Did any serious efforts be made at the Police Authority to address the problem that was severely criticised against the alliance government? No, you didn't. In fact, you didn't do anything. In 2014, nothing was done. In 2015, nothing was done. In 2016, nothing was done. Is it, then, a relevant criticism, or is it hypocrisy from a red-green government? I choose to agree with the word hypocrisy which has been mentioned in this debate, directed at the Red-Green Government, by just saying: it is hypocrisy. The pressure in criminal policy comes clearly from the opposition. The Swedish Democrats were the only party to propose that more police officers be trained in 2015. Then we were told by the Red-Green Government: that is not necessary. There are no more police officers needed to get to these problems. But we didn't give up. We continued to form opinions, put pressure and point to the need together with the Police Authority – in this case, too, they have come up with a concrete list of proposals for the Committee on Justice, which we are debating today. Then the government wanted to train more police officers. That's the story. Madam President, I would like It is, in short, hypocrisy if you choose to criticise a previous government and then do nothing about it yourself. It has simply been a lack of interest on the part of the government in moving forward in legal policy with measures which, for some, may be perceived as more privacy-impairing. There has always been a major flaw in the ability of the Red-Green Government to deal with situations. They want to focus on other things than what the gang criminals are currently in the process of shaking, namely that very privacy-impairing measures have been used by other countries' law enforcement authorities. They have delivered evidence to Swedish police and prosecutors. That's what makes a difference to the criminal gangs. That's what shakes their ability to operate. It is also what is proposed on the table of Parliament and which is proposed in this particular debate. It is a question of extending the possibilities of using secret coercive measures, so that you can also listen for preventive purposes, aimed at gang crime. Then government representatives say that this is completely unnecessary and misplaced and that what is being beaten is not exactly what is being used by the FBI or France. That is why it is completely unnecessary, and we do not need it. That's exactly how it sounds time and time again. The knuckles are pale white in a cramped grip around the handbrake in criminal policy on the part of the government. It's the handbrake on all the time. Nothing needs to be done. We've done everything perfectly. Everything we have done historically has been perfect, and nothing new needs to be done. Madam President, I would like I believe that the issue of preventive interception will eventually become part of government policy. Now the government may not have so many years to prove it, but it may be so. And then it will be argued that this is something that the government has come forward with as early as it has just gone and that you do it as well as possible. It will be said to the opposition that they complain only that everything is done too little and too late. That is exactly how it is: we complain about red-green parties voting against extending the powers to use secret coercive measures for preventive purposes. That is what the debate is like. It is a brief description of history, a brief explanation of why the word hypocrisy deserves to be included in the debate. That is a brief explanation of why Sweden looks like it does and that we top the list of killings in Europe. Policies that would provide thriving multiculturalism have come to bring thriving gang culture. The government's passivity fattens the conditions for gang culture to thrive while the opposition, on the other hand, merges into sharp proposals. I do not believe that any parliamentary committee has addressed so many announcements to this passive government as the opposition in the Committee on Justice has done. There we have the driving force in criminal policy, a driving force that aims at a new government. It is, Madam President, that will ultimately make a difference in this country: a government with its own momentum that does not push forward with the handbrake tightly tightened.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-813	Madam President, I would like The French police and the FBI have done more to combat serious organised crime in Sweden than the Swedish government has done. And if we are now delighted with the police's great success due to the FBI's Trojan Shield and the French police's breakthrough in breaking Encrochat, why can't we have it in Sweden as well? What French and American police did would be illegal in Sweden. We Christian Democrats want to give the police the tools that they need and that they are asking for, but here the government speaks with a split tongue. One day they say they are not closing doors, but today they are voting against the proposal to introduce proactive interception. It's nothing but hypocrisy. What we are discussing today, Madam President, is the committee initiative that the Christian Democrats took together with the Liberals and the Moderates in the Committee on Justice. The Swedish Democrats support it, and the Center Party supports it in some parts. The initiative is based entirely on the measures called for by the Head of State Police when he was invited to the Justice Committee earlier in the spring precisely to answer the question of what is needed to better combat serious organised crime. We went through this methodically. We listened carefully. We took the National Police Commissioner's list and put it on Parliament's table, and that is what this report is based entirely on. In today's debate in this House, I hear representatives of the government say: some things are good, but we cannot take everything on the police's wish list. The Left Party agrees: we cannot take everything that the police say. I know that reasoning from the gang talks that just failed because the Green Party and the Social Democrats said: "V i can't take everything." Both the chief of police and the prosecutor general were there, and all parties had to go in with proposals for measures that they saw required. But precisely the sharp proposals that have been effective in other countries were rejected. The same applies in this report: we may have some things, but proactive interceptions that the Commissioner for National Police has called for are rejected. Contrasts are very strong if we compare with our neighbour Denmark. My colleague Johan Forssell and I met with our party leaders a while ago, the former Minister of Justice in Denmark, who initiated one of the gang packages that has had the most impact in combating gang crime in Denmark. When Søren Pape described what was the driving force and what they were doing in Denmark, it was that they listened to what the police and the prosecutor said and then they agreed to do just that. Today we also see the result: we can push back the serious organised crime in our neighbouring country. So there is hope. You can change that. But then it takes us to listen to the authorities who work to fight gang crime and to those who sometimes put their lives at risk in the fight to secure and secure our streets. Then you can't wave them away by saying that these parts we can't go along with; that's understandable to everyone. We Christian Democrats disagree. The police will be given the tools required when we have a runaway gang crime, and, as the chief of police said in Agend a on Sunday, a particularly serious situation in our country. We need to give the police and the entire judiciary all the support in their work. We need to provide support not only in words but also in action, with legislative changes and the tools needed, rather than relying on the authorities of other countries to do the work for us. Give the police in Sweden the opportunity to listen proactively for preventive purposes. We will then be able to prevent murder. That's what the National Police Commissioner in Agenda said as late as Sunday. Why doesn't the government want to give the police this tool? The Head of the National Police wrote earlier this spring at DN Debate together with the Deputy Chiefs of the National Police that a lot of Encrochat shows that the police need new tools. And further, there is a need for new legislation that makes it possible to proactively collect information against organised crime, directing the power of the individuals who direct and direct the operation instead of the perpetrators, but also actively work to prevent murder and attack on witnesses, rather than reactively investigating the crimes. ..................................................... Does the government, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, Rasmus Ling and Linda Westerlund Snecker mean that they know better than the chief police officer what the Police Authority needs? The debate highlights various concerns, but what is actually proposed is to make it possible to use secret coercive measures against active gang members even if they are not suspected of a concrete crime. In the debate, there is some confusion about what the proposal is actually about, and so I wanted to read from the committee's position so that it becomes clear to everyone. In other words, it is not necessary to require a suspected crime that can be specified in time and place. On the other hand, the prosecutor shall be required to identify a concrete criminal network to which the person to whom the application for coercive measures is addressed is suspected to be active, and the reasons for this. Preventive use of secret coercive measures should only be possible in these situations. It should therefore not be possible to use preventive secret coercive measures against any other category of criminals or in any other situation. What is a criminal network should be carefully defined in the legal text, and it should be up to the court examining the authorisation of preventive secret coercive measures to apply this definition, not up to the law enforcement authorities. Legislation must be designed in such a way that it is clear that it is serious organised crime that is meant. The legal certainty requirements currently imposed on the use of secret coercive measures should, of course, also include an increased possibility of using them. Therefore, the grounds for granting an authorisation to use secret coercive measures for preventive purposes must always outweigh the infringement or, however, the effect of the measure on the person against whom the measure is directed. The Security and Privacy Protection Board shall also supervise this use of secret coercive measures. The proposed use of secret coercive measures shall also be covered by the Government's annual accounts of the use of secret coercive measures. ..................................................... That is what the report says. I am sure anyone who had read it before the debate had had their concerns stopped, but for the sake of order, Madam President, I chose to read out the quote in the light of the question marks that have existed. In addition to this announcement, there are seven other important announcements that would provide the police with the tools needed to combat serious organised crime. It has been a good and constructive work in the Committee on Justice to continue to press the government before us. We look forward to this proposal becoming a reality so that all police officers and everyone else in the judiciary who every day do important work in the fight against serious organised crime also get the tools they need and demand.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-833	Madam President, I would like Through motions and committee initiatives, we have put forward a lot of proposals in the Riksdag to enable the Swedish school to put knowledge in focus. These are proposals that have been consistently voted down by the government parties. Instead, they are launching the idea of an equal school. That idea is good, if it is about everyone being given equal opportunities to develop and reach their full potential. The problem is that this is not the government's intention. Rather, it is about uniting all education into one and the same. One size fit may all work great for tube socks, but not for the Swedish school. We are and remain all individuals with different interests, talent and maturity, to name but a few differences. Of course, a school won't fit everyone. The biggest betrayal of our children and young people right now is the government's total lack of interest in reviewing the quality of our schools. This clearly shows that equivalence is not really envisaged, but that the objective is uniform. It should be uniform to the point that we should not be allowed to choose for ourselves, but the state knows better what we as individuals need. Clearly, there are major problems to deal with. Sweden is backing up in international knowledge measurements, and the results are unfortunately mediocre compared to other countries. In addition, the government refuses to allow an independent review of Pisahavaria. In general, rather than finding out what the problems are, they choose to cover them up and try to solve them. We Moderates want to be better at following up which schools can provide a good education – simply the best quality. The most important thing is not to point someone out, but rather to ensure that our resources end up right. Items shall become indicative for others. Therefore, the Moderates have allocated SEK 50 million extra to the Swedish School Inspectorate to review more schools and propose efforts for those schools that are in greatest need. Sweden's great opportunity is not to level out the quality without raising it in all schools. But if the Social Democrats continue to have an impact on their equality experiment, Swedish schools risk losing many more years. In particular, it will affect all children who are not well placed at home or who have special needs of their own. Madam President, I would like A good education that makes sure to develop and develop our own abilities is one of the best gifts we can give to our children. An education should lead to jobs and make you act as a good citizen of society. That's how I'd like it to be. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like it. Too many students can't handle comprehensive school with full grades, and even fewer pass high school. This is a development we must stop. The Moderates want to build a school where all students are encouraged to succeed. We want teachers who act as clear leaders in the classroom and encourage students' curiosity about acquiring new knowledge and willingness to deliver good results. A strong school enables all children to have a common base of knowledge and values regardless of their background. It allows for class trips. It also lays the foundation for university-level studies and research for a future-oriented business sector in Sweden. A strong school gives us people the opportunity to be free and make their own decisions as well as to be part of a larger community. It is a moderate school for Sweden. Madam President, I would like Upper secondary school accounts for an important part of national skills supply. At the same time, the latest statistics from the National Agency for Education show that almost 15 per cent of all pupils do not qualify for upper secondary school. This is certainly a reduction, which is excellent, but it still means that 16 000 children could not go to high school last autumn. This is absolutely devastating if you sign up to our desire that it should actually be possible to make a class trip in Sweden. Foreign born and those without upper secondary education have particular difficulty in getting a first job, which in many cases leads to a long-term dependency on benefits. Upper secondary school also suffers from matching problems with fewer and fewer people opting for vocational programmes, even though vocational pupils are in great demand in the labour market. Therefore, further efforts are also needed to facilitate the transition of young people to the labour market and to strengthen the contribution of upper secondary school to skills provision, mainly in areas where labour shortages exist. True, not all doors are closed to these young people. For those students who do not qualify for upper secondary school, there is the opportunity to study further on one of the five introductory programmes. The last academic year, 2020/ 21, read over 40,000 students on an introduction programme. Results show that few of the pupils who have started some of the programmes have completed upper secondary education within five years. This is a waste for society as well as for the individual. More young and newcomers need to be given the opportunity for a better start in adult life. Therefore, the introduction programmes need to be reformed. Instead of today's ill-functioning introductory programme, the purpose and accessibility of the introductory programmes should be refined. In essence, there should be two orientations, namely a pre-study where the aim is to reach a secondary school degree, and a vocational school where the main aim is good language skills and that the student should receive a relevant vocational training. At the same time, the introduction programs shall not close any doors. On the contrary, there should be flexibility between the systems. It should always be possible to choose courses to obtain upper secondary school qualifications and, if you qualify, to switch to a upper secondary school programme. In this way, the new vocational school will be both a first way into a profession and a bridge to further and in-depth studies. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in an international context relatively alone that at the end of the upper secondary school does not have a degree exam that is either considered with the grades or reported separately. Unlike Sweden, the neighbouring countries of Norway, Denmark and Finland have exams at the end of upper secondary school. In all countries, the tests are assessed in full or in part externally. The grading report states in its report "Building, assessing, grading" that there are several advantages to the reintroduction of exams in upper secondary school, partly because grade inflation is counteracted and partly because students are under less pressure. A system where grades and test results are reported separately in upper secondary school can lead to increased equivalence as it becomes a system with two measurement points. With two measuring points, grades and exams, students increase their ability to demonstrate their knowledge and it lowers the pressure on teachers to score unwarrantedly high grades. ..................................................... Unfortunately, the investigation does not provide a ready-made proposal for how these exams can be introduced in upper secondary school. Therefore, we Moderates believe that an investigation should be set up to propose how we can introduce exams in upper secondary school. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 3.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-849	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to endorse reservation number 2. Upper secondary school is sometimes somewhat obscured in the political debate. This is usually because we have a violent debate about everything that characterises primary school. But Swedish high school is not an isolated island in the education system. What happens in comprehensive school is contagious and affects education in upper secondary school. It is the responsibility of upper secondary schools to prepare future students for further studies or to enter the labour market. It is important that upper secondary school is given the very best conditions to cope with this task, because if upper secondary school fails to deliver good results, higher education in the country will ultimately suffer. Therefore, secondary schools must keep the flag high and not lower either ambition or knowledge requirements. But this presupposes that both the government and parliament as well as the responsible school politicians around the country's municipalities are vigorously addressing the problems of primary schools today. Swedish upper secondary school is today almost all students in one form. It has become a kind of mantra, not least from the left, that all students should get higher education qualifications. Therefore, all programmes, theoretical and practical, have been designed with this in mind. But the fact is that many students leaving grade 9 in comprehensive school are tired. Some may be tired of school even after grade 8. Some may not even be interested in studying at the university but want to work as an electrician, vvs:are, builder or mason. And it is good that these drivers exist. It is no worse to become a skilled craftsman than to become a trained lawyer or doctor. All professions are needed in society. Upper secondary school needs to be more flexible to meet these students. We Swedish democrats therefore want the practical programmes to be shortened so that they will again be two years old, but that there will be an opportunity for an extra year for those who repent and want to study higher education skills. The practical programmes would therefore be 2+ 1 year instead of 3 years. We believe that this would reduce drop-outs and remove gaps in grades while not closing doors for any students. In 2020/ 21, some 40 600 students out of a total of 360 000, or just over 11 per cent, were registered in one of the four introduction programmes. The results of these training courses are rather bleak. A follow-up by the Swedish National Agency for Education shows that only 56 per cent of the students who started an introduction programme in the academic year 2012/ 13 had moved to a national programme within six years – and then language introduction is not included in the statistics. In addition, only 22 percent of this group of students had graduated within six years. The introduction programs are expensive training courses. The cost per student is estimated to be approximately 30 per cent higher than the average cost per pupil in upper secondary school in general. It is not sustainable with such high costs and so meagre results. The Swedish Democrats believe that this needs to be reviewed and that we need to include increased elements of apprenticeships, for example, in the system. We also believe that it must be called into question whether the introduction programmes should in future really fall under the responsibility of upper secondary school. It is unreasonable for comprehensive school to leave the responsibility for basic knowledge acquisition to upper secondary school. Study and career guidance must also be strengthened. The drop-out from upper secondary school and the replacement of upper secondary school programmes must be drastically reduced. It is important that study and career guidance is clear to students about the conditions for conducting studies on different programmes but also about what the labour market and wage development look like. It should be made clear to the students before the high school elections. The maintenance of pupils in the same form does not only apply to school-tired pupils. This also applies to special students. I believe that this discussion has been held for many years. What are we going to do with the special students? How should we stimulate their interest? But you can't get anywhere. It is true that there are advanced training courses in some localities and in some subjects. It's great, but Swedish upper secondary school must be much better at giving special students greater challenges and at tailoring education to their conditions when required. If Sweden is to retain excellence in the country, we must stimulate and develop the skills of these students as well. We must also be better at developing many of the profiles that exist today. Today, for example, e-sport can be offered as an extended course by some upper secondary schools. However, it is not allowed to start an e-sport upper secondary school in the same way as other upper secondary schools. We believe that e-sport has at least as good conditions for professional practice as many other educations. It can also create opportunities to focus on issues such as leadership, online behavior and the importance of diet and exercise to perform at the highest level. We also think that it is in line with the strong position that Sweden has in the gaming industry. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have also expressed criticism of the course-designed upper secondary school and the system of course grades that accompany it. In these student days, many people think about this when they think back to high school. It was unfortunate that Sweden once chose to have a course school. Education should not be seen as small, separate parts, but as a whole, and the progression of knowledge must be at the heart of education at all times. The course grades have created unnecessary stress for the students, as they have meant that a failure at the beginning of the course can have devastating consequences for the individual student's final grade. That, of course, should not be the case. In accordance with the conclusions of the Grading Report, the Swedish National Agency for Education is now working to re-establish subject grades within the framework of a subject-designed upper secondary school. The idea is that this will be introduced sometime in the autumn of 2024, if I remember correctly. We think this is a good thing. It's great that work is up and running. It's longed for. But we're a little skeptical about how things end up. That it will again become a system that is characterized by experimentation at Skolverket with a mix of the old and the new we do not think is good. Care must be taken to ensure that there are pure subject grades in a purely subject-based secondary school. We believe that the Government should be clearer in its directives to the National Agency for Education. The Swedish Democrats also advocate that upper secondary school should have a state headship just like primary school. A government headship would strengthen the role of teachers and school leaders and make it more attractive to become teachers. We also believe that state ownership would strengthen knowledge development, as the visions and objectives of governance documents are given a clearer and stronger status. The report on the future upper secondary school organisation proposes a regional organisational model for the planning and dimensioning of upper secondary school, but also that municipalities should remain the principals of municipal schools. We don't believe this at all. We do not believe that it will work to create a giant administration at regional level while municipalities will continue to be the principals of municipal schools. It will create conflicts and difficulties and, above all, it will cost a great deal of money that we could have spent on teaching. Today, municipalities also interpret the assignment in different ways. We can see this in the budgets of the various municipalities – different priorities are being set, quite simply. It is important that the national objectives, ambitions and requirements are given priority instead in upper secondary school. Therefore, under no circumstances will we be able to support a reform that does not involve a state headship. So we do not support any regional organisation for this. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of freedom of choice in Swedish schools. This can be borne in mind all the time: freedom of choice is fundamental. It is parents and students who should choose school; no one else should choose for them. This is a central part of our policy, and we stand up for and defend it in all cases. This also applies to upper secondary school. It is perhaps more natural for many with free choice at upper secondary school, but it is as questionable there as in other parts of the school system. That is why it is important for those of us who believe in freedom of choice to stand up for it. At the same time, it is of course important that all educations and schools are of high quality and deliver results and that we act when this is not the case. For example, we want to see stricter requirements and controls in Sweden regarding permission to run and own schools. The changes that took place a few years ago do not seem sufficient to us. Who owns, operates or otherwise finances a school in Sweden should be clear and clear. Schools with financial links or personal ties to violent extremism shall be prohibited. The possibility for individuals or organisations outside the Nordic region to finance independent schools should be limited. We believe that exceptions should be made for already established and well-functioning schools, international schools and schools abroad that are intended for Swedish students. The mission of the School Inspectorate to ensure that this is done must be extended and strengthened. Upper secondary school should be a place where knowledge and education develop and thrive. Links with higher education institutions, universities and industry will be strengthened and developed. The ambitions should be high, as well as expectations of the students. Admission requirements should not be lowered in order to be adapted to primary school, as is sometimes stated in the debate. On the contrary, upper secondary school should be the yardstick for expectations of comprehensive school. This is how we equip students for future studies and working life in the best way possible.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-878	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all the pupils, teachers and principals of high school around the country who have made great sacrifices over the past year in connection with the shift to distance that has taken place. For this is all worth a big thank-you. We have seen how not least upper secondary school has been affected by the pandemic. Many have had to make sacrifices and have had distance learning for a long time. It has worked for some, but not for everyone. It has created worse conditions for students to gain the knowledge they had acquired normally, and it also of course affects the mental well-being of no longer meeting their classmates to the same extent and being forced to study and spend a lot of time at home and manage the studies more privately than usual. Madam President, I would like For many students, completed upper secondary school studies are a key to much later in life. Completed upper secondary school studies open doors for further studies in higher education or lead to work where you can earn your first money, and thus you can get a home and buy what you want, with the freedom that this entails. During this academic year, some 360 000 students have studied in upper secondary school. The vast majority are greeted by good teaching and by skilled teachers and face stimulating challenges as they take on their education. But it's not going well for everyone. Too many people leave upper secondary school without a complete grade. As many as a quarter of high school students drop out of school or go out without a full grade. The basis for this is laid a lot in primary school – that you have the right conditions with you in. But it is also, as we have heard earlier from the pulpit, about the wrong choices people make. Many students choose wrong from the beginning and thus lose one to two years during their high school hours because they change course. The government has now put forward proposals for experimental activities which allow for a change of track for those who have chosen a theoretical programme so that they can read a professional package and thus carry out their studies and be equipped for the labour market. I think it is a good proposal, and I think it is good that it is a trial. But more effort is needed for these students. It is important that education and vocational guidance in comprehensive school works well so that people get the support and help they need to choose education and that there is good information about upper secondary school elections so that it is easier to choose right from the beginning. There is also a need for stronger interaction between schools and the labour market to facilitate this for pupils. The Center Party also wants to see more proposals for education to lead to jobs and for this to become a reality. These are both those who study the theoretical programmes and those who study the professional programmes. We face a very difficult challenge in the labour market. Many industries are screaming for competence, not least at the upper secondary level. Meeting this and ensuring that companies or the public sector with a pressing need for expertise get hold of it is a key for Swedish competitiveness and welfare ahead. Then it is important that you can choose right from the beginning and make your choice based on good information, not least about the conditions in the labour market. This is a key forward. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is also important that you get the opportunity to study entrepreneurship and try running companies, which many high school students around the country have the opportunity to do. This is well associated with Young Enterprise, of which we all know well and who work to give young people the opportunity to try out running a business during their high school years – come up with a new service or product or market in a new way to try doing business and during that work develop as people for a year. The research also shows that Young Enterprise and UF entrepreneurship have very positive effects on those who have tested it. We see, for example, that they earn better, are unemployed to a lesser extent and are more likely to run businesses later in life. These are very impressive results. We from the Center Party therefore want more students to have the opportunity to study entrepreneurship during their high school hours and think that changes should be made so that this becomes an opportunity for all schools and programmes. Madam President, I would like Ensuring that more people pass upper secondary school is an important part that I initially pointed out. But it is also important for more people to be stimulated and for us to enable people to immerse themselves in one subject and take their knowledge to the next level. That is why I am very pleased with the things that are being done under the January agreement to make this possible. It is a question of introducing subject grades in order to promote in-depth study of a subject and the possibility for upper secondary school students to take courses in higher education in order to thus stimulate and develop through their studies. This can simply strengthen Sweden as a knowledge nation. Having said that, I would like to endorse reservation number 7.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-892	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservation to be approved 6. I would also like to congratulate everyone who has graduated this spring. I hope that by now they have had the opportunity to sing about the student's happy day and that they have been able to celebrate really well based on the prevailing conditions. I know a lot of people have worked hard for their grades. Of course, it is not wrong to have to make an effort. On the contrary – that's good! High expectations and demands must be met at school. But those who have taken the student during this pandemic have had to work particularly hard, not least because of remote and distance learning. That is why I would like to congratulate those who have just graduated this year. Madam President, I would like For all those who have now run out and taken the student, there is a lot of hard work in the last three years that is behind this, but the foundation has of course been long before. Unfortunately, too many students are betrayed by Swedish schools already in primary school, and that is simply not the case. In order for more people to reach eligibility for a national upper secondary school programme so that more students can also take the student, we need to settle once and for all with the flum school and re-establish the school of knowledge. Early knowledge checks and support efforts are needed at primary level. All students should be given the opportunity to do diagnostic tests and screen for reading and writing difficulties already in first class. Schools also need to work systematically with early support measures in the form of increased teaching time, homework and holiday school, and not least in the form of special teacher support and special teaching groups, so that teaching is better adapted to the pupils' different circumstances and needs. Most importantly, to settle with the so-called flum school is to start measuring the actual knowledge and students' progression, that is, their knowledge development, so that we know that the efforts we make and the teaching we conduct in schools have an effect. The teaching in Swedish schools must be of high quality, and it must be evidence-proof. This should apply both in primary and secondary schools. Madam President, I would like ♪ We go in the first ring, and I don't understand anything ♪ is a perfectly good line of lyrics to party to when the song Wants to have you played on student records and other home parties around our beautiful country. However, we have problems if we let that line of text capture the feeling of students who have just started high school. We Christian Democrats are therefore convinced that it would be more necessary for a knowledge-based school where teachers and principals in primary school have more opportunity to allow students to attend a grade if this is required to achieve the goals. For the same reason, we want to investigate compulsory education or some form of extended compulsory education for those students who need this in order to achieve the knowledge goals. One thing is certain: Lowering the demands and expectations of students is not a way forward for Swedish schools. A high school with high quality, high expectations and high demands should be protected. Of course, such a school starts with really good teachers. We need to increase the requirements for admission to teacher education and invest in further education for the country's teachers, both in subject knowledge and in leadership in the classroom. We welcome a national professional programme provided that it is successful in filling it with high-quality content. We in the Christian Democrats want more skilled teachers to be first teachers and lecturers. Our goal is that there should be lecturer services at all upper secondary schools. We would also like to see more so-called "combination" positions, so that researchers at higher education institutions could also, to a greater extent, be able to work as teachers in upper secondary school. In this way, the subject matter of our upper secondary schools could be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats work for a high school – and a school in general – where students want to learn for life. There are hopes on the part of our party that a transition to a subject grade in upper secondary school could contribute to this. We are also very keen that students at completed subject studies should receive fair grades that reflect their actual knowledge. Digital national tests with an external correction we see as a very important step in increasing equivalence, but the systematic quality work at schools to ensure an equal rating must of course be improved right now. The Swedish National Agency for Education would need to develop a model for how the grades should be correlated with the results of the national tests in order to counteract grade inflation and ensure a fairer admission to higher education. Madam President, I would like Not all students and students go on to higher education. Some are looking for work, and that is how it should be. Hard work in school increases the chances of work after school. Another thing that increases the chances of a first job after the student is that you have made the right choice of study. Sweden, for example, faces a huge lack of expertise in industry and crafts. Based on the needs of the labour market, it is today simply too few who choose a vocational programme in upper secondary school, polytechnic or apprenticeship. We believe that the task of guidance should therefore be to continue to be based on the student's interest and talent, but to take greater account of the needs of the labour market. It should simply be very clear to the students where there are good opportunities to get a job. Finally, Madam President, I would like to wish all students who are now looking for a job or who will continue to study this autumn a really nice summer and a great success. Happy summer, too, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President and all my colleagues in the Committee on Education and Training a wish from here.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-910	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to start a speech on upper secondary school without touching the last year and the pandemic that we are still in. That would be irresponsible of us because high school students are the ones who have been hit most negatively by the pandemic. The Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation came a few months ago with an evaluation of the consequences of distance learning. It pointed to shortcomings, risks of significant gaps in knowledge and the risk of important elements when upper secondary education is conducted at a distance. There are, of course, positive elements, such as the achievement of new target groups, the increased presence of home sitters and the general improvement in attendance. But if we look at the knowledge follow-up, we see worrying signs, which was also confirmed a few weeks ago in the Swedish National Agency for Education's assumptions. I use the word assumptions, Madam President, because no one knows exactly what the scale of the knowledge gap is. Therefore, the Liberals spent a lot of time and energy throughout the autumn and early this year demanding a national mapping of the knowledge phase. The government finally accepted this and gave the Swedish National Agency for Education a few months ago the task of providing a situational picture of the knowledge gap in Sweden and of presenting a model for how we can find out about this important task. This is important in itself in order to assess the impact of education policy and to assess which measures need to be introduced into primary, secondary and post-secondary education. There will be a lot of young people going directly into unemployment and exclusion. It is not enough for them to be registered with the Employment Service or in inefficient labour market policy programmes; they may need to attend a little school for high school students. I hope that they go into adult education – vocational adult education – so that they can move on in life. All opportunities should be open, and society should be prepared to invest resources in those young people who have been particularly hard hit by the effects of the pandemic. With regard to upper secondary school in general, I have realised, having followed these issues at risk for almost ten years, that the Liberals have really achieved a number of important reforms, such as apprenticeship training, trade apprentices and more focus on professional programmes. The Swedish Enterprise and Industry seminar on vocational programmes this morning noted with satisfaction that there are more today than ten years ago who complete vocational training and take a vocational degree. It is thanks to the fact that we increased the admission requirements and re-assigned secondary school policy so that we got a clearer focus on study preparation and vocational programmes. A few weeks ago the National Agency for Education presented an evaluation report on apprenticeships. It is 13% of students in vocational programmes who take up apprenticeship training, and that is a very positive element. A development opportunity for it to be even better is that the first year of high school can choose the apprenticeship track. This will increase throughput, and more people will complete apprenticeship training, which means that more people will be able to establish themselves more quickly in the labour market. This was also confirmed when we met the industry this morning. Countries with well-developed apprenticeships have much better throughput, faster entry into the labour market and, of course, also lower youth unemployment compared to, for example, Sweden. For many years, vocational programmes have attracted around 40% of applicants. An important explanation is that we have increased the requirements for entering the professional programmes. It has been mentioned that about 15 percent go to high school without qualifications. Here we have a category of students who could quickly get into professional programmes, get an important education and go further into the world of work. The number of first-hand applicants for the different vocational programmes differs. On the electricity and energy programme, it is 86%, while on the health and social care programme it is 60%. Madam President, I would like So there is enormous potential for the health and social care programme. If we only get more qualified first-hand applicants from primary school or after a short time on the introduction programme, we could increase the overall participation in vocational programmes. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention reservation 5, which I support. In this report, the Liberals have highlighted study and career guidance in particular. Discontinuation has been mentioned a little generally, but it is not just about drop-outs at the end of high school or 30 percent of professional students leaving high school without full education and qualifications. We also have 10 000 pupils who cancel their upper secondary school studies annually, which is a major disaster both for themselves and for society. We believe that it needs to be better regulated what type of study and career guidance you get and what quality it should be on. There must be requirements for competence development and young people at the end of comprehensive school must have the right to meet a trained and knowledgeable guidance counselor and receive correct information. So we can counteract mischoice. I note that this has been investigated. The latest report on study and career guidance has been at least a few years at the Government Office without any concrete proposals to the Riksdag. I therefore call on the Socialist Government to come up with proposals that tighten up the requirements, quality and support of study and career guidance.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-925	Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating is a general exercise report. There are many interesting proposals in the report, but because of the provisions in force, the work in progress and the measures announced and taken, I call for the committee's proposals to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Madam President, I would like A secondary school degree is more or less a prerequisite for entering the labour market. The primary school is of course very important for more people to enter a national upper secondary school programme, but more must also graduate. More people also need to move on to studies or jobs from the introduction programmes. We have strengthened and developed the introduction programmes with more teaching time and resources, but more needs to be done. Occupational introductions produce the best results, and we have also introduced professional packages, which means that you can read parts of vocational education and training during the introduction programme. For example, you can read to a nurse and actually get a job right after the introduction program. After that, you can continue to study in a professional adult in order to become a nurse. There are professional packages linked to all professional programmes, and this needs to be developed. More people have to pass high school. That's why we've set up an investigation. The investigator will propose measures for young people to achieve their goals but also explore the possibility of easier transition between upper secondary school and vocational adult or Komvux. The study will also provide other important elements so that we can achieve the flexibility that has been called for here today, among other things. No, I do not think that one size fits all, and that is why we need to make the system more flexible and individual. Madam President, I would like As has just been mentioned, we see a deficit in people with upper secondary vocational training. This applies in both the public and private sectors. Access to the right skills is a prerequisite for ensuring well-being, jobs and growth throughout the country. The Swedish National Agency for Education's follow-up of upper secondary school shows that the proportion of applicants for vocational programmes has fallen over the past ten years and is now down to just over 30 per cent. It is a growing challenge that risks increasing skills shortages in the future. The professional programmes therefore need to be upgraded and the industries need to have a greater impact on improving quality. The crucial role of study and career guidance has also been mentioned and needs to be strengthened and developed. The study on dimensioning and planning proposes that upper secondary education should be dimensioned and planned based on students' interests and needs, as today, but also on labour market needs. The base is to be developed. I believe that this will make it much easier for guidance to be given to our young people. But let us not forget the important guidance at the family kitchen table. Parents'attitude, knowledge, and attitude play a major role. What if the parent of Adam, 15 years old, who didn't know what he wanted to be, had said: Take a professional program, I know! You are guaranteed a job after graduation, and you will receive a basic university qualification if you wish. The doors will be open, and you can still be what you want. The problem is that that is not quite true today. It's just the opposite. Higher education qualifications can in and of themselves puzzle into their education, but they are not included automatically. That is why the proposal that fell into the Chamber at the end of the last parliamentary term should be re-examined. Then it would be much easier for all parents out there to recommend a professional programme as a safe investment for the future of our young people. I am proud of the good opportunities that exist in Sweden with komvux, folk high school, university of applied sciences and generous means of study. This makes it possible to study higher education later in life. In addition, a public study grant for the conversion of professionals is now being introduced, which will create additional opportunities to switch and grow later in life. But again: Make it easy for all parents out there to recommend professional programs as a really good basis to stand on in lifelong learning! Madam President, I would like When summer is here, we have been able to rejoice together with all the happy and proud young people who have finished high school, although the celebration was not quite what they had hoped for this year either. The pandemic has meant a tough time with distance learning. I am thinking in particular of students with a greater need for support or who need guidance in practical steps. Here I think that as a society we should be grateful for the efforts and sacrifices of our students and teachers. They have worked hard, and teachers and principals are soon on well - deserved summer leave. We must give students the opportunity to make up for lost knowledge and elements. I very much agree with that. Here the government's extended and extended access to holiday school after high school is an important part. For those students who start first grade, second grade or third grade in the fall, a welcome message came yesterday from the government and the Public Health Agency. Schools can now equip themselves for local education as a basic rule in the autumn. However, the pandemic is not over, so from the spread of the disease we must constantly focus on the regulatory framework. We have learned that for some students distance learning actually works better. We need to think about why. But close-up education is the best thing for most students. Then teachers and students can interact and take advantage of all the practical, educational and social benefits of such a teaching situation. Finally, I would like to remind you of the purpose of upper secondary school. In 15th chapter. Section 2 of the School Act states: a high school must provide a good basis for professional activities and further studies, as well as for personal development and active participation in society. The education should be designed to promote social community and develop the students' ability to acquire, deepen and apply knowledge independently and together with others. ..................................................... That's the purpose.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-947	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech on upper secondary school by warmly congratulating the student on all of you who have struggled for one and a half years with mixed distance and physical education and who, during a pandemic, managed to take the student. The day I graduated, I think I'll be one of the memories I carry with me my whole life. It is about the pride of having completed the training that is actually the admission ticket to the labour market and the joy of celebrating with my classmates. Madam President, I would like We know that too many young people do not bring that experience. Already in comprehensive school, nearly one student in six is knocked out. We have an unequal elementary school. The parents you have determine your chances of even entering high school. We can't have that! Receiving upper secondary education and a degree is the most important factor in getting a job and not being unemployed for the rest of your career. Getting through school is one of the most important factors in preventing ill health and not getting involved in crime. Getting through school is simply one of the most important factors for a good life, and it is our responsibility as a school politician to give all children and young people that chance. There are things we have to do already in primary school and even in preschool to ensure that all young people can celebrate the student. Madam President, I would like What do we need to do in high school? That is what today's report from the Committee on Education and Training is about. As the speakers before me have told me, there are very many important issues that are now being worked on at the Ministry of Education. In the January agreement, for example, we have questions about how all children, including those with special talents, should reach as far as they can, with advanced education and the opportunity to take courses at higher education level in those subjects where you can go faster. Madam President, I would like It may sound like some kind of luxury that some should be allowed to go faster, but the fact is that it is at least as important as that we give support to those who are having a tough time and end up being behind. All children have the right to develop according to their full potential. One of the most important issues we work with in the upper secondary school area is based on an investigation into planning and dimensioning. It sounds very dry, but let me tell you how I started my day today. I started it by meeting representatives of Swedish industry – those who represent much of our country's prosperity. They said: This is one of the most important things you can do for our future, so that we can grow and hire. We have a shortage of people who know what you need to know in our industries and in the future that will be built when we change. A sustainable transition also requires that we change the skills of our workforce, and then we have to work with upper secondary school. Today, there are too few graduates from vocational programmes in upper secondary school compared to how many are needed in the labour market. Why is that? We know that there was a great deal of pressure in the search for upper secondary school vocational programmes in connection with the removal of basic university qualifications from vocational programmes. I think it is just as Caroline Helmersson Olsson said earlier: The most important study guidance discussions in Sweden today take place at the kitchen tables. Parents have a major influence on the education they choose. And many say: Don't close the door yet. You're 15 years old. Keep the door to higher education open! It is quite sensible, one has to say, because we know that today people have to re-school during a working life. Having the basic competence then gives this chance. Without basic higher education qualifications, a child nurse cannot read on to preschool teachers. Without basic university qualifications, a nurse cannot become a nurse or midwife eventually. We know it's hard to go back and sit on the school bench when you're in the middle of life, have loans on your home and several children to support. Knowing that it is not only one or a couple of years at the university that you are going to study, but also that you are going to Komvux first and study the basic courses that you did not get in high school makes the decision even more difficult. It makes the conversion more difficult. As I said, too few people choose professional programmes. The labour market screams for that skill, and at the same time we have many young people who go unemployed. We must ensure a better match between the needs of society and those of upper secondary school. And we must make professional programmes more attractive. These are structural changes that need to be made. They will not top the news headlines, but they are among the most important for our young people's future, for the future of Swedish industry and for our welfare state. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Education Committee for a wonderful year together during this pandemic. We have also had an exercise in distance learning, and I think that all of us who have worked with school policy during the pandemic have realised that school is a place that so many long to go back to. I hope we see a normal autumn where every kid, every youth and every adult who is training can do it on the spot. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-964	Madam President, I would like I was somewhat unsure whether or not I could be in the debate today, which allowed me to register late. Madam President, I would like Upper secondary school is a voluntary school form, but at the same time a upper secondary school degree is by far the most important key to the labour market and adult life with its own livelihood and good health. Therefore, the mission and working methods of upper secondary school need to be clearly based on the objective that everyone should carry out upper secondary or equivalent education in other forms of school. Significantly greater efforts need to be made to allow all young people to start and complete upper secondary education, including by strengthening the special pedagogy work within the school form and greater flexibility in the organisation of education, but also through continuous development work in close cooperation with universities, colleges and research institutes. The Left Party also wants closer cooperation between upper secondary school and the social partners. We believe that both vocational programmes and preparatory programmes should provide basic eligibility for higher education studies. Choosing professional programmes at the age of 16 should not mean that the choice that has been made will mean that you will later have to spend many years complementing, but should provide the opportunity to either go directly into work after studying or to continue studying in the field of occupation – or in entirely other areas. Like comprehensive school, upper secondary school also has a mission to educate conscious citizens. Therefore, the focus on education and democracy needs to be strengthened. I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 8 by the Left Party, which calls for the reintroduction of access to aesthetics. We believe that aesthetic subjects should be mandatory in all upper secondary school programmes. Madam President, I would like The last two minutes I would like to address a major problem which has mainly affected upper secondary school but also other forms of school, and that is the commercialisation and transformation of Swedish school into a market. There is no other country where public limited companies and venture capital companies can profit from carrying out training activities with public funds. The Left Party believes that the entire education system should be free from market logic, without exception, and that upper secondary school should not be a market school. Market adjustment is one of the reasons why schools are becoming less and less equal. Madam President, I would like So we have the world's most extreme free school system. This was made visible not least in connection with the Swedish School Inspectorate's attempt to get in touch with the owners of one of Sweden's largest school companies, the International English School. I quote from Aftonbladet:. After eight months of hunting, the Swedish School Inspectorate has not yet received an answer to who owns the school that 28 000 Swedish children go to every day. So far, it has been possible to locate a Mexican natural gas booster, a British fund manager and a Luxembourg manager who has made money out of German car washes. These people own schools that the Swedish children go to every day. Founders Barbara Engström and husband Hans Bergström, former editor-in-chief of Dagens Nyheter, still own a large part of the company. They feel that they do not know who these owners are, nor does the president of the association know about it. The school market is a disaster, and the consequences of it are seen every day.
i-X51XUBq2YqspLqj8WakCAU	Madam President, I would like The Moderates welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the governance of the subject teacher education at the University of Gävle, Linnaeus University and Stockholm University. The reason for the review is that there has been a lot of criticism about how the teacher education has worked in Sweden. There have been significant shortcomings in the scientific quality in both 2019 and 2020, so we very much welcome the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office carried out this review. The report says that the governance between the three universities examined works differently, which of course was very expected. The teachers have received various recommendations, but no recommendation has been made to the government. The Government has therefore decided that the matter has been resolved and has added it to the file. The Government points out that major efforts have been made to improve teacher training and to extend it, as well as supplementary education, which is shortened by the KPU. We Moderates trust that the universities themselves can make quality education and know how to manage the education, but there are still things that need to be addressed a little faster. The Swedish National Audit Office has some rather serious recommendations that are addressed to the higher education institutions in order to improve the quality of the subject teacher education and the KPU. It is said that higher education institutions need to clarify the division of responsibilities, that they need to improve coordination and that they also need to listen more to what the students have for experience and education. It is mainly in Gävle and Stockholm that you see these concerns. The students must have a little more influence. Madam President, I would like We believe that the matter is too important and that the problems pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office are too large to take immediate action. That is why we have written a follow-up motion with four motions. What, then, do we want from the Moderates for a faster change? Well, we want to immediately increase the quality and attractiveness of all subject teacher training courses and at the KPU. We want to review the rigid regulations that limit the opportunities for subject and professional and researchers to go to the KPU. We want to see a common basis for what requirements should be set for each focus within the KPU, which could be developed together with the Swedish National Agency for Education. As it is today, the requirements for being able to attend KPU differ very much between universities, so it is extremely important that it is done. We also want to see a more generous admission to the KPU. Now it can be on a single score. We want more attention to be paid to real skills. Those who are to be admitted are therefore those who have a subject education, a doctoral education or a real professional competence. We also want the KPU to be shortened from the current one-and-a-half year to a year. A year and a half is quite a long time to complete. We believe that one should be able to complete the training in a year. There are suggestions to be able to attend the training during the summer. There are also many who work with, for example, Teach for Sweden, which integrates theory and practice. We absolutely want the training to be shortened. This means that more people can go to education this way. These are quite high demands for starting a KPU training, and of course we think it should be. But sometimes there are unnecessary obstacles that we want to be removed. We have pointed it out to the government several times. Nothing has happened yet, but we hope, of course, that it will happen. Why, then, does the majority say no to our claims? Of course, we think that these are rather sensible requests, because we have put them in. There is also urgency. The most common response from the government is that there is an investigation that we are waiting for. But we feel like we can't wait, because this is important. We see that there is now a great lack of teachers. Many teachers do an excellent job every day. But they lack colleagues, they lack many colleagues, mainly in the natural sciences, and then we cannot wait. We need to be more flexible in order to get trained teachers and also preschool teachers. We need to see many more possibilities. We must see that there is real competence around us that could be used, especially in the fields of science. There are many who are actually attracted by the teaching profession but who see too much trouble along the way. The future teachers have the right to a good subject teacher education, and the students have the right to well-educated teachers. That is why I support the Moderate reservation.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-989	Madam President, I would like This is an important review that the Swedish National Audit Office has made of the governance of the subject teacher education at three different higher education institutions. As the previous speaker said, no recommendations are made other than to the higher education institutions, and the recommendations to the higher education institutions are also different. So it is not the same recommendation that is made to all three, because they look completely different. I would like to take this opportunity to list some of what the government has done. Among the most important issues that we constantly work with are the lack of teachers and that teachers should have a good working environment, which is the first step, but also that they want to stay in the profession and that there will be more people who want to work in school. This is the most important thing. Some of the measures taken are to ensure that there are more relevant summer courses. There are more higher education courses that through the KPU allow you to change if you have an academic degree with you. This applies in particular to the KPU for researchers, where you also get a higher level of funding on the study aid if you go just that. There is a reinforced special training for teachers that enables unauthorized teachers to obtain a licence. It is extremely important and something that really should be used more than is being done today. The government has strengthened the quality of education by increasing the compensation amounts for teacher training, among other things, so that more students can get more teacher-led lessons. We know that the humanities of education sometimes have too few teacher-led lessons, and we need to correct that. The remuneration for the VFU has been increased and research schools have been set up for teachers – very important. The honourable Member who was before me in the speaker's chair knows that we have a January agreement with a paragraph 56, which deals with the further development of the issue of teacher training. I think these are good parts that are taken up in Moderates' exercise, but everything that is being asked for is already being worked on. And that's the way it usually is; you break open doors. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motion.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-999	Madam President, I would like I appreciate that Gunilla Svantorp thinks we have some wisdom in our motion. I think so too, of course, because we have written it. Now we get the answer that you are already working on this and that you are going to do this. But it feels like there are already five in twelve and more; this is something that is extremely urgent. That's why we wrote the exercise. So we want to speed things up. If you agree with us, as Gunilla Svantorp says she does, I would like to see our follow-up motion approved.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1002	Madam President, I would like But the honourable Member, Mr Sandström, also knows how the political work is done both at the municipal and regional level and here in Parliament. When you say, as the honourable Member said, that you want to improve quality immediately, there are probably many of us who want it in different parts. But we know that the quality of an education is very much about, for example, having a PhD staff working, and that is the major flaw in higher education. Even if we decide to increase quality immediately, that will not happen immediately. But we have all the stuff that I listed. We have therefore taken steps to ensure that more people can have a PhD and then work with the specific courses where they need a PhD in order for us to have good quality. The member had more requests in the exercise, including KPU with increased study pace, i.e. shorter KPU. This is precisely part of the January agreement that I mentioned earlier, number 56. It is one of the parts that you look at, and the proposal is that you have a five-year trial period when you work on this. I think that most things are going on anyway, which is why we have said no, as is usually the case. Work is under way, and then you're calling for rejection.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1007	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the reply from Mr Svantorp. This is exactly what we are looking at now. But we feel we have to do more than look at this. Of course, we will facilitate research and make it easier to get more PhDs. It is something that is also lagging behind and should have been speeded up much earlier. Nevertheless, we can see that if we are in favour of our motion, we could approve it and say that we are simply stepping up the work to speed it up. We know that there is a huge shortage of teachers, which unfortunately is increasing. This also means that teachers stop because they have a difficult work situation. It is important to attract the teachers back again, and then it is important that there are staff so that you want to remain as a teacher and that it will be a good working environment. I still think that our motion could have made it possible to speed this up further, so I hope that I can possibly get Mr Svantorp to change his mind here.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1012	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think I'm gonna change my mind. I will still support the proposal in the report and reject the motion. But I think it is very important that we discuss what measures we can take to ensure that we increase quality. That's what we do all the time. However, we must remember that universities are autonomous. It is one of those important basic principles that we agree on regardless of which party we belong to. I think it is an important basic rule. This is why these national audit reports are so important; they show that the recommendations can be different because the three universities – the university and the universities – look so very different. So no, Madam President, I still support the proposal in the report.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1017	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU27 Time limits and point of contact to promote the supply of renewable energy. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report, except in paragraph 4, which deals with electricity networks which are subject to a concession obligation, on which we have a reservation to which I request approval. I note that energy policy has taken a great place in the political debate in recent years, which is natural from the transition that we are in the midst of. Therefore, the Government develops an electrification strategy in close cooperation with representatives of industry, government agencies, environmental organisations and other relevant actors in the energy sector. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification. This involves, among other things, developing a planning framework that takes height for a possible double use of electricity to 2045. Roles, responsibilities and coordination need to be developed to ensure that public and business move in the same direction. Measures shall also be identified to enable sectoral couplings between electricity, district heating, hydrogen and other energy carriers. We need to increase our focus on operational security, power quality and preparedness issues. The electricity market needs to be developed with a view to cost efficiency and security of supply. The issue that has perhaps generated the most debate in recent years, apart from nuclear power, is the long processing times and lead times for building electricity networks. The electrification strategy will identify measures that can halve lead times for electricity grids by 2025 so that the roll-out from idea to finished line is in line with electricity generation and use. Madam President, I would like The proposed law, which we are going to deal with here today, is prompted by the so-called recast renewables directive of the European Union. The legislative proposal gives the government the opportunity to introduce regulations on deadlines for municipalities to deal with renewable electricity cases and regulations on municipalities' participation in the process of establishing a contact point for renewable energy supplies. The proposal also allows the Government to provide regulations on fees for the activities of the Swedish Electrical Safety Agency in relation to electromagnetic compatibility. A contact point shall make it easier for the applicant to obtain authorisation for the construction, upgrading and operation of renewable energy production facilities and connections to the electricity grid. The aim is to facilitate the administrative process, provide the applicant with all necessary information and, where necessary, involve other authorities. Time limits shall be set for the construction, upgrading and operation of renewable electricity production facilities and equipment for the connection of such installations to the electricity grid. An authorisation procedure may not take more than one year for installations with a power generation capacity below 150 kilowatts. For plants with a higher production capacity, it may take a maximum of two years. The time limit shall cover all the relevant procedures of the competent authorities. In paragraph 4 of the report, the committee approves motions for the inclusion of electricity networks subject to a concession obligation in the legislative proposal. Basically, we have no opinion other than the motionaries on the importance of speeding up the roll-out of electricity networks at all levels, including in order to strengthen capacity. The licensing process for the construction of new electricity lines is currently in many cases too long. However, a number of efforts are already being made in this area: the Energy Market Inspectorate has received increased funds to be able to deal with concession cases more quickly. The electrification strategy works with proposals for shortening processes and for dialogue with the industry. The Swedish Energy Market Authority has launched a digital application platform that will save time and streamline application processes. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Market Authority and the county boards to analyse the capacity shortage in the electricity grids and come back with proposals for measures. Next week, a bill on modern power grid licensing processes will also be debated in this House. It proposes several legislative changes aimed at making it easier to expand the electricity network and reducing the cost of licensing procedures. Madam President, I would like These measures represent the greatest time savings for electricity line building since Sweden received electricity. Therefore, I do not see any reason to address a notice to the government regarding electricity networks subject to concession. In conclusion, I note that energy policy is taking an increasing place in the political debate, which is natural from the energy transition we are in the midst of. We are in no way clear, even if we have taken important steps along the way. An increased tempo is needed in all areas when lead times are long and change work takes time. It is the whole thing that can deliver the changeover, and it is important to have with it that everything is connected with everything. I support the committee's proposal for a decision in NU27 and reservation 4 and reject the motions.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1031	Madam President, I would like We have to debate the proposal Time limits and point of contact to promote the supply of renewable energy. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. We are facing a massive transformation of society into fossil-free energy production. This is absolutely crucial, according to the vast majority of the world's scientists, and something that the vast majority of countries at world level support. The dilemma we now face is the same kind of dilemma that existed when electricity began to expand in the country around 1885. Increasing the use of electricity requires more electrical energy and increased infrastructure and production. Madam President, I would like We wouldn't have become a well-ordered country if the electrification hadn't come into place. Nor has it been a development without dilemmas. The large expansion of hydroelectric power in the north, where large land areas were used, is part of this, but also the large areas that were used for all the infrastructure to manage electricity. Perhaps you could also see the benefits more clearly and more directly when you went from kerosene lamp to electricity than when we, as now, go from fossil energy to electricity. One sees more impact in the environmental debate than in the enlightenment of one's own home – this as long as electricity is available when one needs it. The day it does not, the debate will definitely turn. The major challenge now, in addition to creating enough new generation of electricity, is to create stable infrastructure. For there are bottlenecks, both in local networks, in networks at regional level and in the large national networks. Madam President, I would like This bill with legislative proposals and subsequent motions shows that we have slightly different views on how best to ensure that production units come into place, or rather that we have different views on which production units we need to put in place. We believe that the various forms of electricity generation are both needed and complementary. Add to this the possibility, if we get it, of storing energy in different ways, also in different forms. All of this is needed. When producers and distributors widely discuss the production and distribution of electrical energy, it is almost always the long state processes that are referred to. It takes too long to find out, and the various authorities involved often work unsynchronisedly. Madam President, I would like That is why this is a welcome proposal, which we from a moderate point of view see as an improvement. But if we are serious about the climate we want to save, everything should be written technology neutrally. The same simplified rules should apply to all types of energy, not just renewables. For us, there is no other way to reach climate targets quickly enough than to apply fossil-free instead of renewables. Municipalities now need to get the new regulations the government proposes on shorter processing times. Although this is based on the EU's renewables directive, energy policy is a national issue, on which we fully agree. Thus we could have chosen our own path. Madam President, I would like Our municipalities must become more service-oriented in terms of licensing processes. This goes without saying. Here the bill lands right. However, we Moderates want this approach also to apply to the various electricity networks, at local, regional and national level. We see that very lengthy decision-making processes are a problem today, but are also becoming an obstacle to the whole transition from fossil energy. If we are all to drive electric cars, we need not only heavily expanded production units but also heavily expanded infrastructure. Madam President, I would like Our industry, our companies and we as individuals are on the move to promote the transition. That is why we need a policy and a public administration that has the same behaviour. This is why we look forward to the government receiving a majority on the basis of the announcement we are now receiving until this improved handling of permits and processing times is also applied to electricity grids. Madam President, I would like The entry into force of the law already on 15 July this year is something that we see as positive and that the documents should now be submitted digitally. It makes it easier. But the law only gives the government the opportunity to issue these regulations to the municipalities. Now it is also necessary to do this.
i-3rWxDFRynLvkei6RXRAxGX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for your speech. I can see that we are very close to each other in many respects, but there are still some differences in both the speech and the text. These are rather well-known positions, in fact, based on the political dividing lines that exist. I would like to raise the issue of over-implementing European directives. With regard to paragraph 4 of the report on time limits and contact points for electricity networks subject to concessions, it is precisely as the honourable Member says that an announcement is on its way to the government for this reason. I explained in my speech what is being done in this area. Basically, we agree that we need to get started faster with building electricity grids. As far as the implementation of this European directive is concerned, the government has chosen to go to a minimum level, as I see it. The honourable Member may, of course, correct me if I am wrong, but here, in fact, a majority in the committee, including Lotta Olsson, is taking an initiative to over-implement the EU directive. This is happening on an issue where the government is taking action and perhaps the biggest time savings in 70 years. Then the question is, if I understand this correctly: Is this the new common feature of Swedish politics, that the opposition should push through the over-implementing of EU directives?
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1046	Madam President, I would like No, no one should blame us for over-implementation. It's really not like that. But energy policy is a national issue. Both Patrik Engström and I have heard in many debates that there are problems with the permit processes and times and that the municipalities do not work together with the state authorities, which means that there is a mischmash that takes unnecessarily long. Sometimes it may also have time to appeal before the whole matter has been completed. Then we think it would be great to have a greater grip on this. It is not only a question of setting up a solar park, but also of putting electricity from it on the grids. We do not really see it as satisfying the European Union, but we are satisfying you and me when we are buying electric cars, and our neighbours when they may want to put solar panels on the roof but are told that there are no local networks and therefore cannot do so. I believe that people cannot understand that they can have decisions to set up a wind turbine, which is also such a plant, but that there will not be networks to get the electricity on the pipeline, which means that things will not happen. I believe that the Swedish people expect us now to take hold of this so that it keeps all the way. I also think it is presumptuous if we think it is a big problem to make a regulatory framework for this when people spend so much of their private money that they worked hard for on solar panels and electric cars and when they try to be resource efficient and do so much for it. Then we in politics should not be an obstacle, as I see it.
i-U1mBJDpoof8u5ziPaevTN7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for your answer. I note that in yesterday's debate on regulatory simplifications, which I sat in my office listening to, the question came up from several Members about the dissatisfaction with the government's, as it is believed, over-implementing, for example, the acquis communautaire of the European Union. Today in this House we are debating precisely the implementation of an EU directive, and a majority in committee, basically the same Members or, in any case, the same parties who were strongly opposed to it, are now pushing through an over-implementation. I can only say that this is the case, but I think it is strange, especially when we have an announcement that came as late as last year to be dealt with. There are a number of parliamentary questions, interpellation debates and motions from the parties concerned that say exactly the opposite. But that's the way it is in political life. Where I come from, it is usually said that in politics and moose hunting anything can happen, and that is obvious in this matter.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1053	Madam President, I would like I do not see this as an elk hunt right away, but if it is an elk hunt, I think it is better to both shoot the elk, take it off and slaughter it at the same time instead of taking everything at different stages because the EU has said we should do so. We are part of the EU and should take advantage of it, but we should also be tough enough to make our own regulations so that they are functional and people see that this works. There should not be obstacles with regulations at municipal or state level that make me not able to charge my car or that there will not come up infrastructure so that I can charge the car at work or put solar panels on the roof or so. The people expect it from us. I think we should be more practical about this. The EU is only a function, and we will ensure that the Swedish people get good infrastructure and good news when they want to do things that make them save electricity and can be climate-smart. I feel that most people want to do good things. You want to buy good and climate-smart food, you want good and climate-smart clothes and laundry detergents and you want to charge your car and all that. If Patrik Engström and I here in Parliament do not advocate a good regulatory framework because we do not want an over-implementment, this may in turn prevent this development from coming into place. If it is a good function, I think we should move on and not take the elk skin separately and the rest of the moose separately, or whatever you should do. On the contrary, we shall be practical.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1057	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy 27 Time limits and contact points for promoting the supply of renewable energy. The report contains a reservation in which SD, M, and KD, together with L, share a common reservation. We also have a so-called conditional reservation which we intend to vote on if the former reservation does not win the voice of the House. I therefore support both reservation l and reservation 2. Madam President, I would like The Government proposal is the result of a Brussels directive and aims to enable the Government to provide regulations on deadlines for municipalities to deal with certain matters relating to the production of renewable electricity but also regulations on municipalities' involvement in the establishment of a contact point to guide applicants for renewable energy supplies. People who see this on Youtube may have to back up and listen again, because it's rather complex word sequences, I realize. In essence, however, the Swedish Democrats believe that energy policy should be a national competence. Other countries' politicians do not have to come and say what and how we should do in Sweden when it comes to energy policy. Having said that, for the time being, we must do what we can to minimise the policy of influence from both Brussels and our Swedish Government. One of the problems in Swedish energy policy is that energy is handled differently and that competition between them is distorted by different regulatory burdens, taxes and subsidies, for example. Although the parts of the Renewables Directive are more limited, the Swedish Democrats see no reason to continue along this path. We must welcome all fossil-free forces, and it should be clear in the legislation that they should be treated equally. Fossil freedom should be the goal and nothing else. The directive deals with small-scale energy production from renewable energy sources, which should be understood as all fossil-free forms of energy except nuclear energy. There is certainly no indication that anyone will be applying in the near future to build nuclear energy production on a scale as small as that provided for in this directive. It is desirable, however, that the legislation should be kept technology neutral. Thus, all fossil-free energy production should be covered in the same way in the legislative text. Madam President, I would like Weaknesses in transmission capacity are now a critical problem at all levels of the Swedish electricity network. In addition, lead times are many times as long as ten twelve years before new, needed wiring can be built. It is far too long if the electrification of both the fleet of vehicles and fossil-dependent industrial processes is to take off. There is a need for rapid deployment of electricity networks at all levels. After a number of years of waiting, the proposal from the online concession inquiry has finally landed on Parliament's table. As I understand it, we will deal with it next week. However, this study should only be seen as a first step towards cutting waiting times. At the same time, there is a need to review electricity grid regulation in order for it to be more favourable and open to innovation, with clearer incentives for investments linked to strengthening operational safety, if we are to ensure reliable electricity supplies at competitive prices in the long term. That is the goal of Sweden's democrats with energy policy. This proposal includes smaller local networks for a period of two years, which is of course a good thing. However, we believe that it should be broadened to include networks subject to concession. By including electricity grids at all levels, we ensure a deployment that helps secure capacity and ensures a stable electricity supply.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1067	Madam President, I would like Time limits and point of contact to promote the supply of renewable energy are not a kiosk roller, but it is very important. This is a small piece of the puzzle – I would just like to stress a little, with a greeting to the government – when it comes to faster permit processes. This is one of the things that industries, not just the energy sector but many industries, are asking for. That's why it's a shame the government doesn't really take the chance. The opportunity could have been taken to gather much stronger support for more measures. Now they didn't. Instead, we, a majority in the committee led by the Center Party and the Moderates, come forward to include more network levels. Earlier in the debate, we heard criticism from the Social Democrats about over-implementing EU directives. This is about the fact that we want to simplify more than the European Union says we have to. So when it comes to regulatory simplification, we do more than the government wants by implementing more than the EU requires of us. It's a good thing. When you normally talk about over-implementing, it is about adding additional rules, charges and costs. In this case, we do exactly the opposite. That is something we really should take into account and continue to do. We will remove more rules, where possible, and simplify more for companies where we can. It is a pity that the Social Democrats have not understood that. In reservation 5, which I would also like to support, we put forward further proposals. It is about inculcating a goal of halved times for the state processes. There are a number of different measures that could be taken. As we mention in the reservation, for example, we want the processes for environmental permits and network concessions to run in parallel, i.e. that the authorities can work simultaneously and with each other rather than after each other. Then one authority does not need to be ready to move on to the next. That would in a stroke shorten the processes quite considerably. In about a week's time, we will be debating things that are clearly related to this: modern licensing processes for electricity grids, that is, more of these kinds of issues. There, too, the measures that could be taken with, for example, non-concession networks are not being implemented. Of course we'll come back to that next week. It is clear, however, that companies want to take the lead. It has not been long since we had a completely different situation, when politics has to push businesses and business forward. Today it is exactly the opposite. What is currently hampering development and transition is not the willingness to invest and the ambition of the industry. It is the political ambition that is lacking. It is the state bureaucracy that stands in the way. At least here we are going forward with further simplifications, in order to help a little. But more needs to be done. The service mission, mentioned earlier, must be expanded. The attitude towards those who want to seek permission must be significantly improved by both politics and authorities. The attitude must be that of course you should get it. If you do not succeed, then that is the case. But it cannot be a question of checking and examining whether it is really reasonable at all. It is also about working on the issue of acceptance. We know that there will be a need for more electricity grids and more electricity generation, whatever the type. Then we need to work more clearly on acceptance issues locally. We also need to use more low-ground technology where it is applicable. We need better forms of compensation, and we need to ensure that the property tax from energy-producing plants is more locally available. We also need to ensure that the defence understands that this is also a safety policy issue and that they do not stop the expansion of electricity grids, industrial installations or wind power for that matter. This is absolutely crucial in the transition. Either we prepare a path for those who want to change, or we won't make it. It's about so much more than just climate. Just saying climate is almost absurd. But it is about more issues than the climate issue, and of course I am animated by them. It's about the industry, which we've been talking about. It is about jobs and companies in Sweden. Either companies can switch here, or they will move abroad where they will get better opportunities. Their customers want green products, and if they cannot deliver them, they can close down. It's also about health. More electrification and less burning of fossil fuels means less air pollution. And that means better health, not least for the children, who are closest to the soil where pollution is most frequent. It is also about safety. The fact that we stop importing fossil fuels and start producing more in Sweden that we use ourselves is about security of supply and not sending money to rogue states such as Russia and Venezuela, which are sitting on large reserves of oil and gas. This is good politics. It must be pushed much more clearly than this government can handle. We have taken the initiative and will continue to do so in order to push ahead.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1080	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating legislative changes with the revised EU Renewables Directive. This means promoting a faster and more efficient start-up process for plants producing energy from renewable sources. The legislative proposals include requirements for time limits for testing of electricity generation installations and the establishment of a national contact point, in which operators should be able to obtain comprehensive information, advice and guidance on all forms of renewable energy. We in the Left Party are positive about these changes, which we believe will lead to a substantial reduction in the state processes. The climate issue is the greatest challenge of our time, and then energy and electricity are essential areas. The need for renewable electricity generation is constantly increasing. Many of today's problems and challenges are often common to the environment and to network authorisation processes, such as a lack of flexibility, lengthy lead times and poor coordination between authorities and stakeholders. Setting deadlines and establishing a contact point will make the deployment of the renewable energy network more efficient. The world's energy consumption is constantly increasing. In both Europe and the rest of the world, the need for energy will increase over the next few decades. Increasing energy consumption is linked to population development. By 2050, the population is estimated to be somewhere between 9 and 10 billion people. It is humans who will demand their fair share of the earth's resources and prosperity. Today, coal, oil, uranium and gas dominate production. This development is not sustainable. We want to see a sustainable energy supply that is able to meet the climate challenge as well as security of supply. With investments in renewable energy, energy efficient technology and energy efficiency, we want to switch Sweden to sustainable energy production. We from the Left want a 100% renewable energy supply by 2040. The conversion we want to see means a very large-scale expansion of renewable energy sources. Solar and wind power need to be expanded at a much higher rate than today. For this reason, all the changes leading to the promotion and efficiency of energy supply based on renewable sources are welcome. I support the committee's proposal.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1085	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 1 in the report. I do not know how many times I have stood in this pulpit and said that it is necessary for the Swedish Parliament to reformulate its target from 100 percent renewable electricity production to 100 percent fossil-free electricity production. It is indeed time that more parties in this House dared to release the sarcophagus and go out on the ice. The real game is about becoming fossil-free. We Christian Democrats endorse the proposals that make it easier to supply renewable electricity and are happy to see small-scale solutions that can complement the necessary basic power from the planned water and nuclear power. But we do not understand that it should be so difficult to keep the legislation technology neutral. But it is not just electricity production that we must ensure. Just as important is transmission capacity. In this regard, we from the Christian Democrats would like to highlight the need for climate change not to be threatened by shortcomings in the electricity grids. We must have an extension at all levels. We believe that the implementation of the rules on time limits and contact points should also cover electricity networks subject to concession. I do not see any obstacles to including non-concessional electricity networks in the rest of the provisions, because the directive does not prevent Member States from going beyond the minimum requirements of the directive. The adoption of measures aimed at facilitating and shortening licensing processes for electricity production without measures to improve distribution and transmission risks that the measures will not have the effect needed for the switchover. By including electricity grids at all levels, a deployment is ensured that helps us to secure capacity and ensure a stable electricity supply. Madam President, I would like You usually talk about the strategy of the thousand pinsticks. I would like to think about it unscrupulously when we see in the bill that there is a lack of an important aspect: how will this amended regulatory framework affect individual companies? It may not have such a big impact, or it may have a very big impact. We do not know, because no analysis has been made. And even if it turns out to be just a small extra burden, you have to put it in a larger context. Like I said, a thousand pinsticks can trap a big elephant. A well-managed company can finally begin to kneel under the weight of all administrative burdens. This must also be taken into account. This is something that the Rule Council points out, and it is a criticism that we Christian Democrats agree with. This also applies to the Council's observation that there are deficiencies in the evidence as to whether there can be an exclusion of an impact on companies in other respects. Madam President, I would like Even in the part on how the competitive situation between small and large companies could be affected, there are shortcomings in the basis of the decision. The Council believes that this makes it difficult to draw clear conclusions. I note that the Government chooses not to comment on the objections of the Rule Council in the bill but to bypass them in silence. In view of the fact that every amendment of the law should make a very careful analysis of how the industry is affected by the changes, I believe that this is a weakness of the bill. Parliament must not miss any opportunity to streamline legislative work in order to make it easy to start, run and develop companies in Sweden. In the further process, the Government should address these shortcomings and carry out an in-depth impact assessment of this legislative proposal from an entrepreneurial perspective, taking into account the views of the Council.
i-3853240c3fa80b6c-1093	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important debate. What is absolutely crucial for solving the climate issue, as has been said earlier in this debate, is that we ensure that there is electricity and energy, so that we can electrify everything that is possible, but also that there are lines that bring electricity forward and that the entire infrastructure, the whole system, is robust enough and supplies the electricity that will be required in our major transition. It is the role of politicians, Madam President, to ensure that the infrastructure is in place and to remove obstacles for companies, associations or anyone who now wants to be involved in ensuring that the infrastructure is in place. We can and will. Conversion infrastructure is as basic as the most basic elements of well-being. No man should be restricted by the supply of electricity, and the climate issue must be resolved. Madam President, I would like What we are debating today has previously been called an over-implementing of a European directive in this House. It is clear that, as a Liberal, I am a little less concerned about the European Union than many of my colleagues from other parliamentary parties in this House. That's absolutely right. It is also quite right that I and others often criticise what we think is over-implementing rules that are bad. But it is strange to be for or against something just because it comes from the European Union. Even I, who love the European Union, think so. It's like you would be for or against something just because it comes from me or some other party or because it comes from someone you don't like or someone you like. That's not how politics works. We must look at the proposals on the table and take a position on them one by one on whether they are good or bad. In this case, in fact, Europe wants us to go further. The EU directive wants to go further than Sweden wants to do in terms of simplifying more. In this case, Sweden is under-implementing the proposal that has come from the government. The EU wants to simplify more, remove more obstacles and do more of what is the fundamental task for the state, to remove obstacles to the green transition. This can also be read in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's documentation. It is not something that I make up or that comes hip like hips from Brussels, but it is in the foundation of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It's about a few different things. It is about the government wanting to limit itself to the production of electricity. We believe, and also the directive, that we must also ensure that electricity comes out. We can't just produce the electricity. We must also include both electricity and energy. It seems strange that the government is not thinking the same way. It can also be about the production of other things. This could be about the production of electrofuels, such as hydrogen, which should also be other energy carriers. It also includes the directive. There the government has missed and is trying to make a sub-implementation. That means not removing sticks from the wheels, as we could have done. We are missing an absolutely necessary opportunity to make it easier to bring about the change that we need to bring about. This is one of the faults with the government's proposals. The second error is that technology is not neutral. In this case, the government limits itself in its proposal to renewable energy and electricity generation. Madam President, I would like If we are going to adjust properly and make sure to save the climate by making sure that electrifying everything we can, we need to be able to use all the tools in the toolbox. All types of energy, all kinds of electricity generation we have, have their pros and cons. Anyone who is fossil-free means that we can stop using fossil fuels. This allows us to export even more to other countries so that they can also stop using fossil fuels. All those energies are positive for the climate. Nuclear power is the elephant in the room. It has disadvantages, absolutely. We all agree on that. No one's going to be humming with this. But nuclear power also has advantages in that it is planable and more plug and play. You can run nuclear power, and it doesn't take much space. You can put it a little anywhere, while the weather-related electricity generation does not have those advantages. But it has other advantages instead. That is why all types of energy need to be included in the mix. We need to treat all types of energy that are fossil-free in a technology-neutral way. Each has its pros and cons. When we make simplifications for electricity and energy, it is reasonable to treat all types of energy as equal as possible. That is why we should include not only small-scale renewable production but also small-scale fossil-free production. Fossil-free production is also important. Planned production is needed in the changeover. We should not limit ourselves to just a few tools in the toolbox. For this reason, we from the Liberals have tabled a motion which is also highlighted in reservation 1. We are very happy that there are more parties behind that exercise. It involves a concrete amendment of the law and a change to the Government's proposal. This in itself means that we also include energy carriers and not just energy production, and we include all fossil-free production simply. I ask you to accept reservation number one.
