i-a29208f460ec67d3-5	Madam President, I would like Civil society communities, aid organisations, non-profit associations, sports clubs, scouts, religious communities, social foundations and many more play a huge role in our society. They co-create the kitt that is so fundamental to trust and commitment, and they have the voice of the citizens who see the need and vulnerability and who join together to solve them. Civil society promotes meetings between people, and here polarisation is counteracted as a direct consequence of these meetings with warmth, trust and trust. I think it deserves to be reminded of the values and values that we are talking about wanting to characterise society: openness, concern for the weak and exposed, respect for diversity, human dignity, community, inclusion and love. These are not primarily opinions; they are actions. It is actions that nourish and oxygenate these for society so important and fundamental values. And these actions take place to a large extent precisely in civil society. Civil society is also, in many cases, the ultimate safety net that captures the most vulnerable people in society, those in various forms of distress. This can be seen especially in times of crisis, such as this, when people are in vulnerability, in material distress, and have practical problems that cannot be solved on their own or are found in loneliness and isolation that drain the very air of life and that, for some, have also almost opened the doors to the underworld. Then civil society has done what it has been able to change and to meet these needs. Despite the fact that one has been in financial vulnerability and wet economics, civil society has continued to tirelessly try to reach out a hand to those in need. You have repeatedly shown that you do not leave anyone in the lurch. Since last spring, I have been arguing that the public must now not let civil society and Association Sweden down in the crisis, because the price for it can be very high. We need a warm, viable and vibrant civil society. We need it for our children's upbringing, for their health – for everyone's health – and for community, which is so important. And we need it to protect the needy. We need it for humanity, for the warmth and for the meeting between the one who gives help and the one who needs it, where the question is also increasingly asked who really helps who in the context. Civil society has tried to switch in the crisis with increasing costs, while their revenues have decreased when activities have not been carried out as usual, when sponsorship revenues have not been received, when collection activities are severely hampered, when participation fees have been reduced and when income-producing arrangements have been cancelled. When, for example, Scouts cannot arrange election castles, it is sad for us who cannot go there, but for them it is a manslaughter battle against their economy and their ability to operate for children and young people from different groups and contexts in society where they can meet. I and the Christian Democrats proposed this spring a civil society case with adapted support precisely to the specific needs and conditions of civil society. Together with Left Party and Ulla Andersson, we later proposed a crisis package for civil society during the late spring. Unfortunately, this was then rejected by the other parties in the Committee on Finance. Support continued to be too small, and above all too badly adapted to the conditions and needs of civil society. True, there was some support for parts of society, while others were largely absent. Business support, which was often referred to, has mostly not worked because civil society is not, and should not be, structured in the same way as companies. An organisational form such as foundations with social support activities as a focus may have been particularly affected, and folk high schools as well. This also applies to various relief organisations with several. But now, finally, the Committee on Finance, following a renewed proposal from the Christian Democrats and the Left Party, has changed its mind and said yes to the demand that the government return with crisis support adapted to civil society – a larger, broader support that reaches better. I am extremely pleased with this decision, which Parliament is taking this afternoon, and that a united committee has now supported this. Now the government must act. Madam President, I would like The amending budget that we also consider in this report – number four for the year – mainly contains proposals that are in themselves reasonable. It is a good thing that the rules on withdrawals and sickness pay are extended. It is good that turnover support for individual traders is also in place for January and February. However, the slowness of the information and the excerpt that characterises how support for small businesses has come into being deserves criticism. The Swedish Parliament has had to drag the government to produce support for the individual traders, and once we have one, the government cannot give notice of extensions in a reasonable time. It creates uncertainty, and it slows down the confidence and hope of many, many thousands of entrepreneurs, often women in event, cultural and visiting industries. The turnover aid for partnerships is also extended. But in reality, so far, a year into the crisis, not a single trading company has even been able to apply for the aid. Now that opportunity has to come into place. Madam President, I would like The government is now also reinstating a relatively unsuccessful rent subsidy. Instead, we believe that in the sectors already identified as beneficiaries of this rental subsidy, employers' contributions should be reduced. You have the list ready; you could do this. It would have a good effect in reducing costs but also in increasing the opportunities for those activities that are now trying to keep open to actually do so and not having to lay off staff. In conclusion, I am extremely pleased that we are now receiving a demand from the Riksdag for more support for civil society and Association Sweden. I would also like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation, which has number one.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-22	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate and vote later on the fourth amending budget submitted by the government to Parliament this year. We are going to decide on 12.4 billion in new and extended measures to repress the effects of the virus on health and economics. The Coronandema is a double crisis. First and foremost, it is about protecting life and health. Many have lost a close friend or family, and even more have suffered the disease themselves, sometimes for a very long time. But the pandemic is also an economic crisis. Not since World War II has the world economy experienced such a deep fall in such a short time. The whole global economy has been hit. Here in Sweden, several companies are struggling to get the business going. Many employees are also concerned about their future livelihoods. But we're also starting to see the light in the tunnel. Yesterday, the Swedish Public Health Agency was able to inform us that we have now implemented almost 650 000 vaccinations. Over 200 000 people have received two doses of vaccination. A quick vaccination is important to save lives and health from covid-19 but also to get the economic wheels back on track, with all that also means in health. In order for vaccination to proceed quickly, the state and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have signed an agreement in which the state is responsible for the cost of vaccination and where the regions are responsible for rapidly rolling out vaccines to their population. In addition, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions and the Government have an agreement in which the government co-finances antigen tests, i.e. rapid tests, and for this we are now shooting at SEK 1.4 billion. But even if we see some light in the tunnel with the vaccination, we must all continue to take a major joint responsibility to stop the spread of the disease and thus protect life and health, not least in the region where we are. That is also why we are now using masks here in Parliament. In order for no one to hesitate to stay at home when you have symptoms, we are now extending the compensation for the withdrawal and also the withdrawal days for self-employed workers until 30 April of this year. In order to reduce the burden on the already heavily strained care, we are extending the abolition of the requirement for a medical certificate. We also extend the state grant for personal protective equipment for personal assistants between January and April by SEK 20 million. We also provide resources so that the temporary provisions on the exclusion of insured persons from the assessment of work capacity in the case of deferred care can be extended until 30 June of this year. Employers will continue to receive compensation for sick pay costs beyond normal until 30 April, and SOS Alarm will receive increased supplements as calls there have increased. Ever since the pandemic struck on health care and society, the government's message has been clear: money must not, should not and will not stand in the way of the important work of health care. Last year we paid a large amount of money to health care, and we will not hesitate to provide more resources if it turns out that it is needed. Here today, we continue to support health care and cooperation between the regions of the country by sending SEK 100 million to fast-track transport so that it will never be a question who should take the bill in those cases. But it is not just about money; it is also about staff. Therefore, in order to encourage more people to help in healthcare, we will remove the benefit from the study aid system during the first half of 2021. We also contribute SEK 50 million for research on long-term covid. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has also had other health effects. Many older people have been in isolation for a very long time. It's killing your health. Loneliness gets stuck. That is why we are providing resources to pensioners' organisations so that they can be involved in the work, support their members and break their isolation. When many families and couples become isolated during the pandemic, the risk of domestic violence also increases. Therefore, we provide resources for organisations that work with children, women and LGBTQ people who are victims of violence and make an important addition to the National Centre for Women's Peace. Madam President, I would like Former speakers have spoken warmly for civil society, and civil society is also close to my heart. It's a very important part of our community building. Not least in times of crisis, non-profit forces can play a very important role for many people. That is why we are deciding here today on a contribution to the non-profit sector. At the same time, we note in an announcement to the government that there is a need for better support for civil society and call on the government to return to Parliament with proposals on this. We are also making special contributions to sport and culture, which has received a heavy blow during the pandemic, of over SEK 800 million. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, the pandemic has also hit hard on jobs and businesses. Here today, we are deciding that the turnover aid to individual traders and the aid to partnerships should also cover January and February. Today, the government has also announced that the support will be extended in March and April. In addition, we will reintroduce temporary support for rental costs in particularly vulnerable sectors for 1 January – 31 March 2021. For this, EUR 3 billion is allocated. The support requires the approval of the EU, and the government is therefore now conducting such discussions with the European Commission so that it can be put in place as quickly as possible. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, in the past, we have provided money from the Government and Parliament in order to be able to shorten the processing times of the agencies in relation to the payment of these subsidies. We now know that the authorities are working very hard to get this in place. Madam President, I would like With today's decision, we continue our efforts to support the economy and repress the infection. Since the initial phase of the pandemic, we have been pushing over 300 billion in direct costs and over 900 billion in credits and guarantees. It cannot be described as anything but historical. It's a huge amount of money. We have been able to do this because we entered the pandemic with a good starting point. We entered this crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977 and with 350,000 more people in work than before Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. Thanks to broad budgetary cooperation, we can act together to protect life, jobs and welfare. Now we continue that work and take responsibility for Sweden. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-35	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by expressing my thanks once again, like previous speakers, to all those who are struggling in Swedish health care and in the care of the elderly. But let it also go out to the many more people who actually get to work every day to make sure that important social functions work: the engineer who ensures that there is water in the crane, the police who make sure that there can be order and that someone comes when you need help and many more who help out in the ways they can so that society works – but also everyone who chooses to stay at home and work from home so that there are a little fewer people in public transport and so that society can limit the infection together. It makes it easier for those who work in retirement homes. It makes it easier for those who work in health care. When the infection goes down, fewer people actually need to put their lives to death. The large death toll on retirement homes depends, just as the Corona Commission has pointed out, on the widespread spread of society. Every effort that each one makes helps to actually reduce the risk of people dying. Many thanks to all of you who in different ways do everything you can for this! Madam President, I would like The additional amending budget that we have today contains many reinforcements of important areas for what is the consequences of limiting the spread of infection, that is, the effects on the Swedish economy, Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. The Moderates have been involved in making a great many of these different proposals. One of the proposals that is included here today, which we are strengthening and extending, is turnover support for individual firms. The Moderates received the approval of this Parliament for this spring 2020, and together we were able to take a decision in June 2020 to give the government the task of returning with that support. It is a subsidy that helps 600 000 individual traders. In the autumn of 2020, we supplemented the Moderates with a further proposal that also included partnerships and limited partnerships. This is about people who work and pay taxes. It is hairdressers, musicians and many others who are the closest things you can describe as wage-working entrepreneurs, that is, what you earn is also what you earn. Many of them have had to live with very small revenues or completely without revenue. This support, for which we together were able to gather support in this Parliament and to commission the government to come back with a ready-made proposal, means that many of these entrepreneurs will survive. But it takes far too long, Madam President. That is the big problem with many of these subsidies. A government could work faster than it does to get these things in place and to ensure that these subsidies are paid out. With the decision we are making now, we are extending the support. Further extensions are announced for individual traders, commercial companies and limited companies. We are also raising the level of remuneration, because the margins are now much smaller in those companies that have been hardest hit for a long time. It saves jobs and businesses, and it allows us to make it through the crisis, but also that after the crisis Sweden will have good tax revenues and people who have jobs. That, Madam President, is very important. There is another initiative that I was going to mention here and which is good. It is about culture and sport and it is a support that needs to be put in place. It is good that the government will bring this to Parliament. But from the Moderates' side, we think that support for culture and sport has been far too small. Since the end of autumn we have worked very closely with actors in both the field of culture and sport. We have worked on a proposal that has also been put on the table of the Committee on Finance. In the best of worlds we would have had it there today. We do not, but we will hopefully be able to take a decision on this later in the spring. I would like to express my special thanks to Petra Kauraisa. I know I'm making your last name wrong, Petra, and I apologize for this from the speaker's seat right away. Petra has been absolutely priceless. She is a small business owner – a very committed one – who works in the entertainment and event industry. She brought together the major players – everything from the Theatre Association and Musikersförbundet to Swedish Elite Football and all those who in different ways support a lot of people in culture and sports in this country. They are the ones who make sure that we have Vätternrundan and exercise races like Lidingöloppet and Vasaloppet – all that most of us think are important parts of the Swedish people's soul. It is also about music, theatre and culture. It's about Sweden Rock for those of us who like hard rock. It is about very many other events that take place in different parts of our country and that employ many people but are also close to the heart of many of us. We like different things, but what we have in common is that some part of Swedish sport and culture reaches most of us in one way or another. We care about it and, above all, Madam President, we want it to remain when this pandemic is over. These actors have been very clear that they cannot last another summer with cancelled events. They're in full planning, they're selling tickets and they can't last another summer if they have to cancel. That's it. If we need to limit the infection, it must be done first, but the proposal we on the part of the Moderates have drawn up and for which there is now a majority in the Committee on Finance, so far, is about ensuring that if the infection continues and vaccinations do not go as well as we wish, these important parts of Swedish culture and sport will be able to survive. I'm very happy that you, Petra Kauraisa, gathered large parts of Swedish culture and sport and made us Moderates meet all of you, which allowed us to produce this proposal and hopefully soon in the spring can get it through. This does not mean that all costs will be covered, but it does mean that you get 70% of the costs. This will allow planning to continue with local disease protection and others, but if the events cannot be carried out, the state will take part of the cost of what has to be cancelled or not fully implemented. That way, all these events will survive until after the pandemic. I believe, Madam President, that we will all want a continued supply of culture and sport. It is dear to all of us in various ways. Madam President, I would like I intend to go in for landing and keep time for once in this Chamber. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we are in favour of the current proposal. That'll make us save jobs and businesses. I would also like to make a special mention of the Christian Democrats and Jakob Forssmed who have made a proposal to strengthen civil society before I leave the floor. It has also gained the strength of the Committee on Finance. It is to be hoped that later today it will receive the approval of the House. This means that we can also strengthen civil society during this difficult crisis. It is good with committed politicians and parties that together in this House we can save as much as we can only get from what we all think is important and good and want to keep after this crisis.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-52	Madam President, I would like It has now been more than a year since Sweden received its first confirmed coronafall, and large parts of society are still suffering during the pandemic. It is therefore positive that we at least agree today on the extension of most aid measures and on the introduction of new ones. Many of the grants are the result of previous committee preparations, as are the extensions. The Swedish Democrats are pleased that the state's compensation for sick pay costs is being extended, that the possibility for self-employed workers to receive compensation from the state for withdrawals and withdrawals is being extended, that financial support for self-employed workers, commercial companies and limited companies whose turnover has been reduced due to the pandemic is being extended and that students who help in the fight against Corona do not have their student funds withdrawn. These aids are necessary, but the information should have come earlier. This lack of foresight is a recurring problem, both for entrepreneurs, for employees and for society as a whole. When notification of aid measures is unclear or at short notice, it is difficult to plan the activities. It is difficult to determine whether the company will survive until the restrictions are eased. Unclear and late information directly hits profitability and risks increasing unemployment, especially when there is a similar lack of foresight when new restrictions are imposed. For many traders there is uncertainty if there are conditions for operating in one month's time. Some people don't know if they'll be able to operate in a week's time. This needs to be improved. When the student benefit is abolished for another six months, it will happen when two months of the six-month period has already passed. In December, the government parties also adopted a committee initiative in the Education Committee on the removal of the amount of the exemption. The efforts of the medical and nursing students are needed to relieve the burden of regular medical staff. In return, they should at least be able to expect clear information as to what applies to their means of study and in good time. Early and clear information – this is an important prerequisite for dealing with the financial consequences of the pandemic. I hope that the government will be able to take this with it and listen to the opposition when we come forward early on with proposals for the introduction of new aid and extensions of aid to alleviate the economic consequences of the pandemic. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-59	Madam President, I would like I will begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who are making great efforts during this crisis. As several speakers have pointed out, it is a two-sided crisis. First of all, it's about saving lives. That's focus number one. F okus number two is saving business and jobs. That is what we are really struggling with. What we are now debating is the 16th amending budget in one year. It gives a little respect. I am becoming more and more humble for each amending budget. I compare what we're doing right now with orienting without a map or compass. We handle as best we can and then adjust a lot of what we do, depending on what the reality looks like. What governs above all is the evolution of the pandemic. And we don't know what it looks like. Today we see a great risk of a third wave, which would mean additional conversion opportunities and requirements. Another factor that has been very tangible throughout the journey is the restrictions imposed by the EU. They mean that some of the efforts we want to make, for example with targeted support, do not work. It must be reconciled with the EU if it is possible to implement it. We'll lose three or four months. This is no longer the case. Humility in this job has really brought me a lot. This debate concerns the 16th amending budget. In total, I think you can count about 22 different support measures on a very large number of levels. The budget covers no less than 12.4 billion. It's easy to get a little blind at home. But 12.4 billion is about half a normal budget space a regular year. We now have this in number 16 in the series of amending budgets. I am very pleased with the proposal that is on the table today. The role of the Center Party this period is that, together with the Liberals, we are at the negotiating table. I note that many people want to take credit for doing things. Those of us who sit at the negotiating table know that we really make a difference. I'm pretty proud of that. Today, this applies in particular to the extension of conversion aid for both individual companies and partnerships. It's very important. This is a more targeted rent subsidy, which is crucial. It is also necessary to continue to take responsibility for sick pay costs and to remove the withdrawal date. That is also crucial. I think we are all pleased with the additional support that is now being directed at sport, culture and, above all, civil society. We are in complete agreement on the measures taken. Together we have had to be a little creative to find targeted support. It is easy to point to problems. It is very much more difficult to come up with solutions to the problems. That is the responsibility of sitting at the negotiating table. I am sure that we are all met by companies in different industries who say: This is not working fully. Today we have had a meeting with both the restaurant industry and event industry as well as amusement parks on Gotland. Their signals are quite clear. It's too complicated rules, there's too much administration around the rules and it's too bad communication. You can't know in advance how to deal with this. A special request is a more open approach to lay-offs so that people are not forced to be at home during short-term lay-offs but can still be at work. It is good socially and can also help with development efforts. Today's legislation is not possible. With that, I would like to say that we are far from achieving the objectives of these efforts. We'll have to be humble there. The Centre Party is also annoyed by the very late decisions and, above all, the payments. That is why we have called for an extra debate on the Swedish Agency for Growth's management. I know we've negotiated extra money for administrators. But it must also land in reality. There is a huge rush at the moment to save the companies that can be saved. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-71	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Lars Thomsson. He represents the Center Party, which has traditionally stood up for small businesses and has often wanted to solve problems together with the Moderates. We have been able to do very well together, even at the beginning of this crisis. Then, unfortunately, something has happened. I don't know what, but maybe Lars Thomsson can answer that. I would like to ask a sincere question to a party which claims to be protecting small businesses and which has also seen the desperation that it takes several months to get emergency aid paid. There are companies that have waited more than seven months to get their emergency aid paid. Madam President, I would like My question to Lars Thomsson concerns the problem that is now being seen. The Moderates have put forward concrete proposals in the Committee on Finance to remedy the problem, i.e. to reduce what takes time, through more follow-up checks on the aid paid. The authorities have also learned quite a lot and can in this way also curb the cheating. But we should increase post-control and combine it with much tougher penalties for those who deliberately cheat with the corona supports, so that we get rid of the scammakers who are trying to get that money. There were therefore concrete proposals. Instead, however, the Center Party wants to call for a debate and to stand and talk about the long processing times that prevent companies from receiving their support. I do not understand that, Madam President. But perhaps Lars Thomsson can answer why you would rather talk about the problems instead of actually solving them. With the Center Party, there would have been a majority to allow much faster payments of crisis aid. The Center Party chose to vote against the proposal put forward by the Moderates. I feel sorry if we now want to help businesses, Madam President.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-76	Madam President, I would like Member Riedl runs and acts as an opposition. If there is one thing I, as a center party, am extremely proud of this term of office, it is that we are solving problems; we are not talking about problems. We have sat at the negotiating table and, in practice, negotiated almost every business subsidy. Very much of it would not have been there if the Center Party and the Liberals had not negotiated it together. We have that role this time. We continue to fight for companies. We have always been the party of small businesses, and we will continue to work for them. We also see that the part relating to the payment is late. Payments are governed by the authorities, and the authorities are governed by the government. But we're not in the government. We are very critical of the fact that there have been major delays in support schemes and in their payments. That is definitely the case. Since we are critical, we have asked for a special debate on this very subject. The Moderates initially acted very responsibly. The times they have made concrete proposals have been welcome and we have supported them. But when they come up with a wish list and only have general descriptions of problems without any concrete proposals, the Center Party has not been able to support this. We also do not believe in making a shift into a system of post-controls rather than having pre-controls. It was a choice we made early, and we think it's the correct one. Moreover, the investigator who has looked at it is convinced that this is still the right way forward.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-80	Madam President, I would like For the listener then comes up with a question. The Moderates made a concrete proposal to increase the proportion of post-controls combined with the agency's learning how to detect those who want to cheat on the grants, i.e. those companies that try to bluff support. It is therefore a question of increasing the number of post-checks, using the skills that the authorities have built up to see this and doing so in combination with a substantial increase in the penalties for those who cheat with subsidies. It was this proposal that the Moderates put forward but which the Center chose to vote down, which meant that it did not come into place. It was a ready-made package to solve the problem and bring about faster payouts. I can fully understand that you can have different views on whether it is good or bad. However, there was a concrete proposal, which would allow for faster payments. Madam President, I would like Now the Center Party wants us to talk about this. But if you in the Center Party are not satisfied with the current situation and do not think that the concrete proposals of the Moderates to solve this are good enough, what does the Center Party want to do besides talking about the problem in parliament? If there is any suggestion from the Center, please tell us about it, Lars Thomsson. We are absolutely not bound by our own proposals. If the Center Party has better proposals for shortening the processing times that will allow emergency aid to be paid out before companies go bankrupt, we are very happy to listen to them. If the Center Party has concrete proposals, Madam President, I would like Lars Thomsson to explain them. So far I have only heard that you think it is a problem that companies do not get the money and that you want to talk about it. But do you have a solution? We have a solution, but you say it's bad. You're not happy with what it looks like for the day. What is your solution? ( FIRST VICE PRESIDENT: I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President and we are not using you or you in the speaker's chair. ) That's what I was trying to do. I apologise, Madam President, if I missed it.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-87	Madam President, I would like We recognize Riedl's combat technique with high tone and many words. The Center Party has really considered whether we should switch systems to post-controls with tougher penalties instead of having tough controls in advance, which was the first choice we made when the support schemes were put in place in spring 2020. In the investigation that Stefan Strömberg has done, it is strongly advised not to have a system of post-controls. Unfortunately, it is one way of promoting organised crime. That is why we have chosen not to go that way. Moreover, should we change systems in the middle of the crisis, we will probably have delays because of it, and if it is something we do not want, it is precisely delays. Now we need to try to get the payments out as quickly as possible. The role of the Center Party has been to negotiate more money for increased appropriations for administration for the two paying authorities, the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency. That's what we've done. Then we put maximum pressure on those who govern these authorities, that is, the government, to implement and prioritise this as much as possible so that we get to this quickly. The situation is very unsatisfactory. We fully agree on that. However, I note that 450 new administrators have now been hired and another 100 are on the way. We will do everything we can to push the government ahead of us to speed up payments. This is the role of the Center Party.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-92	Madam President, I would like Let me first do a reflection on the line before me. It is a little strange that a parliamentary debate is being asked to speed up the payment of various forms of business support when we have had 20 additional amending budgets when we have been able to debate it. Yet again we stand here with the same debate. Furthermore, the investigation referred to concluded that the most important thing is to carry out checks in advance. Afterwards it is much harder to detect errors or outright cheating. Madam President, I would like So we are again discussing an amending budget. There have been many in the past year. We have heard well-deserved tributes to health and care workers, but unfortunately not all the fine words or applause have led to the wage increases and improved working conditions that would have been necessary. Back in Gävleborg they have really tried. On the initiative of the Left Party, those who have worked in health care under the coronapandemine have received an additional payment of SEK 10,000, and they will receive SEK 500 for each extra shift they take on during the year. Much remains to be done to improve working conditions and salaries in health care and care for the elderly. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen any such initiatives from the government. At the outset, I would like to mention the committee initiative that is on the table of Parliament and which we have taken together with the Christian Democrats. Many thanks, Jakob Forssmed, for a good cooperation! This time we succeeded. About ten months ago we were voted down when we made a similar attempt at initiative. At the time there was also a proposal for financial support. Now it is more about a call to the government to come back with proposals on how to improve support and gladly expand it. If we had succeeded last year, civil society and the associations involved would probably have been much better. They could have done more extensive work, had felt more secure and had had a better economy. We all know how important these associations are in breaking the loneliness of the elderly and meeting children who are in distress, in different ways need support or just need good leisure time. It was a shame that it didn't happen, but this time it went better, which is good. We all know that both during and after the pandemic there is a great need for action by civil society for children, young people, the elderly and vulnerable. It is good that a united committee is now behind the initiative. The budget we are now discussing contains many much-needed and necessary efforts and reforms. This is, for example, an extension of business aid. Some of the aid that is now being extended is aid that we in the opposition have initiated. For example, this applies to the turnover support for individual traders that we, through various committee initiatives in the Finance Committee, have led the government to present. A lot of hairdressers, cultural workers and taxi drivers went bad and had not received the support they needed in the crisis. They had a very difficult and financially very heavy time. The support for them will now be extended, which is very good. It is also good that there is support for partnerships and limited partnerships on the ground. This too would have come earlier. This time too, it was the opposition through the Moderates who acted. This budget provides funding for research on long-term covid and support to municipalities and county boards for monitoring and control of the Pandemic Act. There is support for culture and sport, which is much needed and good. But there will certainly be a need for more resources in the future, not least for sports. This budget also provides support to pensioners' organisations to provide them with better opportunities to work to reduce the loneliness and isolation of older people. This is very welcome, as loneliness and isolation can be very bad for human health. Here, society will have to do so much more after the pandemic than was done before and of course than could have been done during the pandemic. The budget also provides money for women's shelters – unfortunately much needed, as men's violence against women is a major and serious social problem, which also seems to have increased during the pandemic, as more people are simply forced to be at home. There is also extra money to support organisations that work with children who get hurt. Back home in Gävleborg, not least in Söderhamn, worrying reports about children have increased sharply. Work to tackle it has been made more difficult during the pandemic due to covid. For example, household visits cannot be made in other ways, and efforts cannot be made in the way they have been possible in the past. Different ways must be found to find new ways of working or to ensure that you can do what you need to do and that there is no covid and spread of infection. However, it is strange, I think, that the social services of the municipalities must not increase their efforts, which would be necessary, because the reports of concern have increased. The cuts continue around the country. The other day we could read, for example, that the student assistants and special educators in the schools will be cut back in Nybro. Twenty-six million you're supposed to save. It's not supposed to be like that. When the pandemic struck, we were in the Left Party very quickly out and demanded that the Karen's Day – or withdrawal, as it is now called – be removed. We felt that the Karen Day meant that many could not afford to be home if they got sick or had cold symptoms, because you need food and rent even if it is a pandemic. If your income is low, a Karen's Day is absolutely devastating for your economy. Finally, the government and the cooperation parties announced that the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal was a good thing. Unfortunately, however, it was not quite so, but only some of it was removed. I would say that this unfortunately characterises some of the measures being taken. For ordinary people there seems to be some half-measures simply. The measures are not so extensive or are not extended, or the cost is not entirely removed, as with the withdrawal – it may be a halving of the cost to the individual. Another sign of this is that the rent support for companies is extended in this budget. It is a support that may not have worked the way it was intended and is not so sought after either. But you extend it, because you want to signal that entrepreneurship is very important. We want to save jobs and businesses, and that's good in itself. But why not extend the increased housing allowance for families with children? There are lots of people who have lost their jobs during the crisis. Lots of parents don't get those extra hours they need you to get together for rent, food, kids' clothes, and so on. There are lots of families who have suffered a severe deterioration in their finances. If you could barely keep your nose above the surface of the water before the crisis, it is even more difficult now during the crisis. However, the increased housing allowance for families with children is not extended. I wonder why. Why does support for families with children not work? Why aren't they extended? Madam President, I would like We all hope that the spread of infection will be reduced. We each do what we can, I hope, and I take it as my starting point. I know that in health and care, heroic efforts are being made, as elsewhere in society. We need to be able to buy food, ride a bus and so on. A big thank you to all of you who are struggling and to those who cannot work from home! You carry a greater risk than the rest of us who can work from home. But we all have to contribute on the basis of the conditions that exist. Work from home! Take care of each other! Follow the restrictions! One day we'll get out of this. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-110	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! During the crisis, many people have made great efforts for our country. For some, the sacrifice has been relatively limited. It has been about working at home or taking responsibility in your everyday life. For many, it is hard and frustrating not to be able to meet your fellow workers. For many more, for those who work in health care or at the core of welfare, the sacrifice and efforts have been even greater. Those entrepreneurs who see their businesses, perhaps their life's work, bleed and have it really tough right now are struggling and making impressive efforts. Madam President, I would like I am very impressed by many of Sweden's entrepreneurs. Whether small or large companies, many entrepreneurs have shown an enormous ability to reset their business when customers can no longer go to the store or when customers can no longer live as usual. There is an enormous ability to reset and see new opportunities in a very tough time. I'm deeply impressed. Today in Parliament, we are dealing with several of the support for jobs, entrepreneurship and business that are so important for people to feel safe in the midst of the crisis. Having a job to go to, not to be laid off, to feel community in the workplace and to be able to support yourself is of course especially important at a time when much else is tumultuous and many other things are worrying. That is why it is very important that we decide today on extended aid for sick pay costs, extended turnover support and rental aid, to take some examples. More support is waiting later on when it comes to short-term lay-off and the payment of aid to entrepreneurs who are in brutally tough times right now. Several of the recent restrictions are tougher and tougher than was the case about a year ago. This means that some individual entrepreneurs have a tougher situation today than a year ago. It is a brutally difficult situation to see your life's work disappear and take responsibility for your employees or to have to resign an employee who you like very much or who makes very good contributions to the company. It feels, it hurts and it's hard. The task of politics is to do everything we can to stand up for jobs and ensure that most companies can keep their staff and survive. Madam President, I would like Today, we also decide that the amount of the student allowance is abolished. This is an important measure for many students, not least in the healthcare professions, to be able to help during the Corona crisis. It can be about vaccination, medical care and a variety of other important actions aimed at improving the functioning of welfare. It is important for more people, not least young students, to be able to help during the Corona crisis. We also support sport and culture. We are now ensuring that support for civil society is improved. In this situation, Parliament takes responsibility for making that support better. Madam President, I would like This is one of the many additional amending budgets decided by the Parliament. On the Liberal side, we take responsibility in the crisis. We see as our task not to do political squabbles and political squabbles, but to take our responsibility, to solve the problems people have in their everyday lives and to solve the problems we currently see linked to the Corona crisis. Taking responsibility is about doing your best in every situation to push for more support for entrepreneurship and jobs and to welcome the initiatives taken in Parliament from other parties. We take joint responsibility in a constructive spirit. We make sure to take responsibility for Sweden, manage the crisis and lift Sweden out of the crisis. We make sure not to bicker and not fight but to take responsibility in a tough situation. I support the proposal in the report.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-118	Madam President, I would like It has become something of a logistical exercise to act insecure in this House. But it's important. We can do what we practice. It is nothing compared to all the work, all the sacrifices and all the major changes that people and businesses around Sweden have made in the past year. Now there is such a time when it may be worth thinking back about where we were a year ago when we started to get a grip, or at least get information, on the pandemic. We sat and tried to get the equation together into a picture. Think everything we didn't know as we know today! One thing we know is that Sweden has a strong ability to hold together and change in a situation like this. There are an enormous number of people who have made fantastic contributions. I would like to mention in particular those non-profit actors who are working so extremely hard to catch up with those whom the rest of society does not really reach. They have made tremendous efforts this year. I am convinced that in many cases these have been vital efforts. It is about the women's shelters that are there for the women who are exposed to violence and threats in their home environment. Unfortunately, it is an effect of this year that there are more of those women and children. It's about those who work to reach out to those who have nowhere to be at home and be quarantined. It is people who lack homes but who are supported and helped by churches and, for example, the City Mission. One thing we are doing here today is extending support to those organisations that have had to do more and therefore need more funding. It's an important thing. It has been a clear priority for us in the Green Party to get in touch with those organisations and ensure that they have support for the extremely important work they do. Another thing has been that we have agreed early on that we should share the costs of handling sickness costs. For financial reasons, no one should hesitate to go to work when they have symptoms. We've managed to stick together. The Parliament has been united and united in those parts. It's extremely important. Then we struggle with some other support. Aid to the smallest firms has been difficult to design. It's taken too long. It's important to admit it. But now we have together been able to find forms for it, and it is on its way out. Another support that has been a bit back and forth with is the rental subsidy. We have been able to identify at an early stage that it would be an unfortunate consequence if various businesses struggling with their economy were forced to leave their premises and the economic impact spreads into the real estate sector. This could have enormous consequences both for individual entrepreneurs and for the economy as a whole. That's why we introduced rent support in the spring. Some actors thought it worked very well. There were agreements between property owners and tenants, and the state went in and took part of the cost. Some others thought it was a mess. That is why aid was abolished when we introduced the conversion aid, which includes the cost of rent. At this point, however, we see that the support we now have does not reach all of them. There are players who would benefit greatly from rent support. It can be about actors in the industries that are hit by very severe restrictions. To complement the palette of measures we have now reintroduce the rental subsidy. I am convinced that it will be important for some companies and hope that this can be designed in good conversations between property owners and tenants. We're raising the stakes from the state to show our commitment. It's not a general solution. I see it as a measure a little bit on the margin. But it's probably as important to them as it will help. That's how we got to work during the year. We have had to develop support that reaches as many people as possible and tries to ensure that they complement each other. This is part of that work. Looking forward and again trying to understand the future, we know far more now than we did a year ago. However, there is still much that we do not know about how the pandemic will affect our economy. We will continue to take decisions as the pandemic develops and the impact in society develops. But we've found some kind of contract. As long as restrictions exist, there should be support for entrepreneurs, cultural life, sport and civil society. I hope that although the information is not always accurate that everyone out there feels it. Here in Parliament we agree on that. When we decide on restrictions that limit you, we will take financial responsibility. The notification will come as soon as possible. The work continues with high intensity in the Riksdag. I know it's on the other side of the water, too. This will be one in the line of one of many additional amending budgets. I am convinced that we will have the corresponding debates again. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-136	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask Karolina Skog, who represents the Green Party and is therefore part of the government, about two things. The first is about children who get hurt. Here you add money to civil society organisations. I think that is very good. But we all know that reports of concern are increasing, and in some places quite a lot. It is very disturbing, I think and many with me, and surely also Karolina Skog. However, I do not understand why money is not given to social services, which have the ultimate responsibility when children are ill-advised to take action and try to assist children and also parents. It has great difficulties. It has had financial difficulties for a long time. We know that, and that is still the case. The last day before yesterday I read about Nybro, where students' assistants and special educators are pulled down. At home in the neighbouring municipality, the number of children in children's group sizes should be increased in preschool and so on. One of my questions is: Why is it not possible to spend money on social services for the work of children who are in harm's way? My second question concerns the increased housing allowance for families with children, which has not been extended. Karolina Skog described meritably why they have the rental subsidy for companies. I find it very difficult to understand why the increased housing allowance for families with children cannot be extended. There are very many families with children who have had a very difficult financial situation. I'm sure they had a rough time before. Now they have it even more difficult when the extra hours disappear and maybe the whole job has disappeared while food and rent are still the same. Why is the increased housing allowance not extended for families with children?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-142	Madam President, I would like I think Ulla Skoog is quite right to point out that we are seeing an increase in the number of complaints for children. It is important that we understand what is happening in society during the pandemic. It is an indicator that many families are under pressure. Social Services are currently finding it more difficult to go in. This is one of the reasons why it has been important to ensure that the municipal sector receives the support it has requested during the pandemic. Contact with SKR, which represents the local government sector, has been intense. It has been important for the government to meet the requirements for municipalities to be present throughout their operations, including social services, and to switch up if necessary and certainly not reduce. It is important that Ulla is one of those who monitor what the municipalities do. I want to be very clear: the municipalities have received funds, and I do not think it should be accepted that municipalities are currently cutting back on the activities needed in the pandemic. However, my conviction is – I will say it over and over again – that it is better for us to give support in the form of general state subsidies rather than targeted ones. I am a former municipal politician and have been trying to take care of targeted state subsidies. It is difficult to do this in a good way. We provide support through public state subsidies, and we expect municipalities to do what they should do with that money. This includes, among other things, making social services work well. My time is running out, so I think I am saving the second question for my next speech.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-146	Madam President, I would like It is not always easy to have time for everything you want in two short minutes, so I fully understand that Karolina Skog did not get there. I pulled my mouth because you called me Ulla Skoog, and she likes me-- that's cool! We talked about children who get hurt, and Karolina Skog referred to the fact that money has been paid to the municipalities. They should not, therefore, have cuts, but social services should be able to carry out their mission. But I believe that Karolina Skog, as I know, it was very clear in the government's own budget proposal that the resources allocated would mean further cuts. And this is what we see. Taxors are raised for pensioners' food, student assistants are withdrawn, the number of children is increasing in preschools and schools, staff is lost and social services are having a very tough time. We therefore knew this already when the budget was put on Parliament's table. Yet you have not taken any further action. I think it should be done. Me and the Left Party are trying to push for extra support for the municipalities. We must ensure that municipalities have the necessary resources, both in care for the elderly and in preschool, school and social services. It is absolutely crucial to the way this is going. We will see what Karolina Skog answers to the question about families with children. I think that the financial situation of families with children in the crisis has received very little attention from the government. I very much regret that, and now I would like to hear an explanation of why this is the case.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-151	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by apologizing for this embarrassing mistake and agreeing that what Ulla Andersson is raising today are very important issues. The Green Party agrees with this; it is something we work for and give high priority. Earlier during the pandemic, we were very concerned that the effects would lead to increased problems with evictions of, among other things, families with children. We are following these developments very closely. Thankfully, we have not actually seen such an effect during the pandemic. It was because of this concern that this support was added. In the Green Party, we generally want to increase the housing supplement in the long term, because it is a good way to strengthen the weakest families with children. There are currently problems with the design of the grant. A state inquiry has been set up, and we will come back to that issue. Having said that, I am no stranger at all to returning to the issue if we see a need for it or a tendency to start having problems with the evictions of families with children. It was in this context that the discussion earlier arose and the temporary increase was made. But it was done exceptionally because the basic construction can cause the money to actually not reach those who need it best. Here we need to do some basic work.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-155	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to abolish bonus – the Malus system. There must be enough symbolic measures that do not improve the environment at all but only make life difficult for people who need the car. The car is an important means of transport for Sweden to stay together, for jobs and growth to be created throughout the country and for everyday life to work for the pensioner, the small business owner and the family. The car simplifies life and gives freedom. This should not be interpreted as meaning that the Moderates do not want to reduce CO2 emissions. We believe that environmentally friendly transport is extremely important for a successful climate transition – a climate transition where new technologies and innovations are in the first place. This requires an extended infrastructure for charging throughout the country as well as a policy that ensures that electricity is available around the clock, all year round, both in Skåne and in Mälardalen, Västsverige and Norrland– yes, throughout the country – including through investments in nuclear energy. The Moderates also want to see green fuel support for research, investment and production for companies developing biofuels for, among other things, road transport. We believe that the existing bonus – the malus system has not met expectations, and according to several authorities, including the Swedish Energy Agency, there is still no positive effect on emissions. BONUS – the design of the malus system also leads to the system, in line with the way the government usually acts, benefiting the big cities, which receive the lion's share of the bonus, while the majority of the malus is paid by the countryside. The Moderates are clear that the costs of climate change should not be passed on to those living in rural and rural areas, where alternatives to petrol and diesel cars are often lacking, where public transport is not frequent enough and where the scope of the electric car is not enough to bring it back and forth to work, especially when it is winter. The purpose of the Government's proposal is to strengthen and simplify the environmental governance in bonuses – the Malus system, but that objective is not met. As far as reinforcement is concerned, it creates competitive disadvantages for, for example, entrepreneurs who depend on light trucks to do their jobs. Electricians, plumbers, sheet metal repairers, straighteners-- yes, the list can be made as long as possible. Most craftsmen cannot load their tools into ordinary passenger cars and should not be punished for this with higher taxes. In addition, the market for craft services is open to foreign entrepreneurs, who often drive older, less environmentally friendly vehicles. They gain competitive advantages because the bonus – the malus system only hits vehicles registered in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has made justified criticism that vehicles with different uses are mixed in the same bonus – malus systems, which in addition to light trucks also disadvantage larger family cars and motorhomes. Especially distressing is the situation for families where someone sits in a wheelchair and therefore does not fit in a small car. Should these families be punished with higher taxes? The consultation paper shows that the Government's proposal risks reducing sales of new cars in favour of cars aged four years and over, which generally have higher CO2 emissions. Is this a desirable development? No, it definitely isn't. The taxation of charging hybrids is also considered problematic, as they are vehicles that can have low emissions, but it depends entirely on how they are used. Both the Institute of Economics and the Swedish National Audit Office have criticized the bonus – the malus system, among other things, for being expensive and inefficient. Another aspect is that the bonus money has gone to sponsor Norway's climate transition. According to the State Authority Traffic Analysis, approximately SEK 400 million of the bonus money paid by the State in 2019 ended up in Norway. These exports do not favour Sweden's conversion to a fossil-free vehicle fleet or Swedish taxpayers. Madam President, I would like I call for the government's proposal to be rejected and for reservation 1.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-166	Madam President, I would like What we are going to debate today is a reinforcement of the bonus – the Malus system. It is a system that intends to contribute to reducing emissions from Sweden's transport sector by 70 per cent from 2010 to 2030. The Swedish democrats are and have always been firmly opposed to the Malus system and believe that it should rather be phased out in its entirety. The fact that the government, through a reinforcement of the bonus – the Malus system now goes forward with even tougher rules with increased tax costs for many ordinary households and companies that cannot afford and opportunity or who live and live under conditions where it does not work with an electric car, we consider to be both destructive and counterproductive. Madam President, I would like It is incomprehensible that the so-called green parties in the government accept to bring forward a model that means that those who have an old fossil car but cannot afford a new electric car or do not live in circumstances that make it possible to have an electric car get a weaker incentive to replace their old car with a newer, safer and cleaner car, albeit driven by fossil fuel. As a result, many with an older car will postpone the investment in a newer car, which will ultimately make the fossil-powered fleet older and dirtier. This will not contribute to the desired reductions in emissions from the transport sector. According to professional assessors, the government's policy increases the average switching time for vehicles by several years, as a result of the reverse effects arising from bonuses – malus. The fact that the car fleet will be older also shows the sharp increase in demand and price increases in the second-hand market. This has been shown both by car dealers as well as by Blocket and the car auction site KVD, and it has primarily taken place since bonus – the introduction of the malus system in 2018. In Sweden, the average life span of passenger cars is currently close to 17 years, and as many as 44 per cent of vehicles are older than that. Had we been able to rejuvenate the vehicle fleet to an average life span of 11 years, CO2 emissions would be reduced by about 400 000 tonnes, which is close to what Sweden's domestic flights emit in a year. Madam President, I would like While tax subsidies for new electric and environmental cars are to an even greater extent, they are also being reduced by the secondary value of these more than had been done without subsidies. As a result, exports of used environmental bonus cars from Sweden are still large. In 2019 a used environmental car was exported on one in four newly registered cars. This not only results in Swedish taxpayers involuntarily subsidising CO2 reductions for other countries, but also in increasing and delaying Sweden's emission reductions compared to if the cars had remained in Sweden throughout their lifetime. Even heavy bodies such as the National Institute of Economic Affairs and the National Audit have independently identified bonuses – the Malus system as inefficient, costly and unfairly distributed between the city and the countryside. It points out that it is another behavioural tax that risks undermining government tax revenue from road traffic. As late as the beginning of February, a survey showed that the Malus bonus system over the past two years has gone back with more than SEK 650 million even though the government has meant that the system should be self-financing. Strangely enough, when this is not the case, you choose to move forward and tighten up the system even more. Madam President, I would like There is another fundamental problem with government policy in the light of the slowing down of the transition. The Green Party and the Center Party have forced the government to pursue an energy policy that means that we are increasingly seeing times with power and power shortages in the Swedish power grid during the year. At the same time, this will be met by the Government's ambition that more and more people will drive electric cars. How does the government, with the Green Party and the Center Party, mean that this goes together? Furthermore, it is not just about cars being driven on electricity. The whole of society is increasingly expected to be electrified and computerized with technological developments, while at the same time reading about industry's lack of investment in southern Sweden due to the fact that electricity supply cannot be guaranteed. Among the news the day before yesterday, we noticed a start-up and multi-billion-dollar investment in Boden for the development of fossil-free steel. We can only congratulate Boden on this, but this process will also consume huge amounts of electricity. Previously, LKAB and SSAB have presented similar investments for fossil-free steel, and only LKAB estimates that they will have an electricity demand of 55 terawatt hours, which corresponds roughly to what the nuclear reactors in Forsmark and Ringhals produced together in 2019. Then the electricity needs of SSAB and now also H2 Green Steel are added. Despite the stated ambition that this with significant parts will be produced with new electricity, we can probably be pretty sure that there will be very little energy left from the hydro power in the north to send down to southern Sweden to charge the electric cars with. Stability in electricity supply is already threatened by the government shutting down Swedish stable power sources that do not emit carbon dioxide and intend to replace them with sources that are partly weather dependent and partly emit more carbon dioxide. Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Swedish Democrats also want to reduce emissions from the transport sector. However, we believe that these set sector targets are both ineffective and expensive. Of course, the lowest hanging fruit should be picked first. However, when it comes to electrification of the vehicle fleet, we need primarily to ensure that there is enough domestic fossil-free electricity and enough power all year round to charge Swedish electric cars. We also need to ensure that there is a charging infrastructure in Sweden worthy of the name, also alongside the major European roads. However, the internal combustion engine will still play a major role in the transport sector in Sweden for the foreseeable future. More research efforts are needed to develop indigenously produced biofuels to fill their thoughts. Finally, bonus – malus is a symbolic measure that primarily rewards those who can afford to buy expensive electric cars and who leave the bill to those who, for various reasons, cannot buy a new electric car. Unfortunately, the system also ignores the emission reduction that we could have achieved through the renewal of the fossil-driven share of the vehicle fleet and the use of domestically produced and sustainable biofuels. I therefore call for the government's proposal to be rejected and for our reservation to be approved.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-183	Madam President, I would like In order to reach the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010 and to reach the target of zero net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045, the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet needs to be accelerated. The transformation of the transport sector is too slow for Sweden to reach its targets," says a number of authorities. The reduction obligation and the CO2 tax are key instruments for achieving these objectives. Bonus – the Malus system is a complement to these. The aim of bonus – malus is to increase the share of low-carbon light-duty vehicles in new car sales. Bonus – the Malus system provides a bonus in connection with the purchase of certain low carbon vehicles, while vehicles with high carbon dioxide emissions receive an increased tax, known as malus. This proposal is about malus, which is therefore an increased vehicle tax in the first three years from the date on which the vehicle is taxed. The system intends to provide a clear signal effect and steer towards the choice of vehicle technology that does not contribute to CO2 emissions or produces low emissions. The amounts included in the calculation of the increased amount of carbon dioxide in this proposal are increased by SEK 25, while the limits for when it is taken out are lowered from 95 to 90 grams per kilometre and from 140 to 130 grams per kilometre respectively. A change of bonus is announced in the 2022 budget and is therefore not included in this proposal. A fundamental principle of the bonus – the Malus system is that the revenue should cover the costs. The fact that the system is self-financed and thus does not burden public finances is an important starting point. For environmental management to be maintained and for Malus revenues to cover the costs of bonuses, the system will need to be regularly adapted as technology developments progress. The need for Malus revenues to cover the costs of bonuses is also important in view of the difficulties in forecasting environmental car sales. Madam President, I would like It can be difficult to be clear in the long term with exactly how climate management measures as bonuses – malus will change in the future. Unlike previous premiums of a similar nature, the bonus – malus system has a clear plan for evaluation, and the system changes based on assessments of effects and impacts. An audit report came recently. It was about all the premiums and bonuses that have occurred, four terms of office back, in order to get consumers to choose more environmentally friendly vehicles. Bonus – the Malus system is the latest in the series of actions taken by previous governments. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that only bonus – the Malus system, which was introduced in 2018, has been analysed in a more systematic way. BONUS – the Malus system will continue to be analysed on an ongoing basis and adjusted if necessary, including for effective environmental management. However, since bonus – malus is a complement to other governance systems, there is a need to review efficiency collected. There is an investigation looking at this very thing. The government has also referred proposals for measures to prevent subsidised climate bonus cars from being re-sold abroad. It is worth mentioning that the automotive industry must meet the EU's stricter requirements for average CO2 emissions from new cars from 2021. If emission levels are exceeded, the manufacturer risks a fine. The national bonus – the Malus system could make it easier for individual manufacturers to meet EU average CO2 emissions requirements. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-194	Madam President, I would like Anna Vikström mentioned in her speech that the aim is to provide a clear signal effect for those who do not use environmentally friendly cars. In my speech, I mentioned the situation of families where someone is in a wheelchair and really needs a per-mobile. There are families where two family members need per-mobiles. These do not fit in an ordinary car. You need a minivan to have the same standard of living as everyone else. The new bonus proposal – Malus penalises this family unreasonably harshly and unjustly. You have to pay tens of thousands of dollars in higher vehicle taxes just to be able to move. My question to Anna Vikström is: Why is it punishing people who depend on having access to a larger car in order to have a reasonable standard of living? Do you really want to send the signal that these people are environmental villains when they have to use large cars?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-197	Madam President, I would like It is of course important to remember that the bonus – the malus system includes new cars. You can almost get the impression from Boriana Åberg's question that there will be an automatic punishment of everyone who is forced to buy the type of heavy cars she referred to. But it's new cars, and it's three years. All types of vehicles must be included in the climate change that we have. There are problems with heavier cars – they may not exist sufficiently in the electric car area. This type of incentive is therefore needed. It will be strange to exclude certain cars and certain vehicles from this. Nevertheless, new car sales of environmental cars have increased a great deal. Then it is never possible to draw a straight line between cause and effect and say exactly what actions govern. But it is unlikely that the bonus – the malus system would not have an effect. I think I can say it has an effect.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Vikström, for your answer. I myself find it immoral to have a system that strikes against those who really need the support and help of society. It is true that a maximum of 40 000 a year is given to have a car that is disabled, but the penalty for such a car is up to 70 000 in three years. So you go tens of thousands of dollars minus. I also find it very strange to say: yes, but only new cars are affected. Should disabled people not be able to have new cars, modern cars and, above all, more environmentally friendly cars? We know that technology is constantly evolving. The cars are getting better and better. They become more environmentally friendly and release less. Everyone should be able to have access to these cars, including people who are sitting on a per-mobile and who depend on it. Unlike Anna Vikström, I have received information that sales of new light trucks and minibuses have decreased since October last year, when the change became known. I would appeal to Anna Vikström and the Social Democrats to review this so as not to penalise disabled people or others who depend on a larger car.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-203	Madam President, I would like Of course, everyone who buys a new car should benefit from the bonus system, and as I said before, the bonus system is under investigation. There will be a new proposal in the budget for 2022. Of course, you have to look at all kinds of effects that the system has had. That's what's so good about this particular bonus – the malus system that it actually adapts all the time, and if it's the kind of signals that Boriana Åberg mentions, it might also have to be taken into account when looking at this. Nevertheless, it has to be said that the bonus system has had a positive effect on sales. Then there is definitely a need for more stimulus in the case of the heavier cars, and I certainly agree that everyone should be able to buy a new car and benefit from the bonus system. Hopefully, the fleet will also develop to include cheaper electric cars so that more can buy and use them. Because we have to change. It is simply extremely important. We are not in phase when it comes to CO2 emissions from transport. We need to do more, and the systems we have need to be continuously adapted.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-207	Madam President, I would like In order to reach the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010 and to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045, the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet needs to be significantly accelerated. The proposal we are discussing today is one of several steps along the way. The instruments we use to get there – carbon dioxide and energy taxes on fuels – put a price on emissions and on our energy use. These taxes are technologically neutral and follow the polluter pays principle. However, I would like to emphasise that, as with all the instruments, we must at the same time ensure that there are actually choices. We cannot steer our citizens towards something that does not exist. It is therefore extremely important to create incentives for the production of biofuels, for example, and for it to exist throughout the country. The reduction obligations and the fuel taxes mentioned are key instruments for achieving the zero emission target. BONUS – the Malus system complements these and aims to increase the proportion of environmentally friendly light vehicles in new car sales. That is to say, we are moving towards the choice of vehicle technology and not so much choice of fuel at the pump. To meet the climate challenge and transition, more people and businesses need to buy energy-efficient and efficient cars. That you therefore get a bonus if you buy an environmentally smart car and pay an extra fee if you choose a worse one is a principle that most people can agree on. Nor does it affect those with small margins who would have a tough time if petrol taxes were increased radically. Madam President, I would like There have been and are many technical issues in the management of this system. Some work well, some work badly. This obviously results in some being hit more economically than others. No system can cover everything. That is why we have fuel taxes, environmental car bonuses and environmental truck premiums. Today's bonus – the Malus system is, as I said, primarily a support for technology shift in the vehicle fleet, while incentives to refuel is done via fuel management. We should remember that it was today's government that introduced today's bonus – the Malus system on 1 July 2018, and it is the government's bonus – the Malus system that is the basis of the system and the actual problem that also exists today. In negotiations we have got patched up and fixed in the existing. Some of the Center Party's entrances to the negotiations of the revision of the bonus – malus have been mentioned. Exports of bonus cars abroad must be handled because they undermine the system. We need to strengthen consumer information, requiring car vendors to clarify the bonus level to customers in order to enable informed choices. We want to introduce more control stations to review the system. We want to raise the bonus part. We want to see 100 000 SEK as the highest bonus for zero-emission cars. That's a good incentive. We want to extend Malus from three to five years, as some of the consultative bodies have pointed out. With more people running on electricity or renewable fuels such as ethanol, gas or HVO, our imports of fossil oil are also decreasing. It is not only good for the climate but also for our safety. We can create jobs and companies here in Sweden instead, many times in rural areas, if at the same time we support domestic production of climate-smart, renewable fuels. The January Agreement provides for the reinforcement and simplification of the Malus bonus system from 2021. I agree with the criticism that what we are doing now is actually simply about strengthening it. We are not simplifying it now, as is clear in the bill. I find that regrettable. I think it should have been done together, at the same time. It becomes easier to understand, more manageable and easier to communicate. This is also what a number of consultation bodies want: a review of bonuses – the effectiveness of the Malus system and also a comprehensive review of all instruments relating to passenger cars, including reduction obligations, preferential taxation and CO2 taxation. The expansion of charging infrastructure throughout the country is also highlighted. These are important issues that I would like to be dealt with jointly. Once again, this is the core of the instruments. If we are to rule, the citizens must be able to choose. This is an important point in further negotiations with the government. We have tried to resolve the situation in negotiations with the Government for light trucks and for motor homes, where there are few alternatives today. However, we have not had all the parties included. The basis for the problem is once again the government's bonus – the Malus system. The challenge for certain categories of buyers, such as light trucks and motor homes, is that there are basically no bonus vehicles to choose from. Once again, we firmly believe that such a decision creates incentives to produce and bring new technological innovations so that the market is increasing in this area. It is sometimes said that only cars in the city benefit from bonuses – malus. I don't really agree with that. Often it is because cars leased, for example, are written on legal persons who usually have their head office in Stockholm or in large cities. That is why this is misleading. Many of these cars are used in the country, in the countryside. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has made criticisms and measures this proposal against, for example, raising the petrol tax, which we believe strikes much, much harder against the individual. As far as the export issue is concerned, the bonus is to remain with the first owner as proposed by the Government. It will be the first owner to ensure that the car is not exported for the first five years, even if it has sold the car on. This creates an unnecessary regulatory problem and goes against the wording of the January agreement to simplify the system. The proposal also provides for the refund of the bonus if the bonus car is exported. That's good. But the Center Party's proposal is that the bonus should follow the car during resale. In this way, the existing owner will be liable if the car is exported. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-XGYZwa7bBfnMsnq6VMmnGd	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Anna Ekström, Minister for Education, Peter Hultqvist, Minister for Defence, Amanda Lind, Minister for Culture and Democracy and Eva Nordmark, Minister for Employment. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Anna Ekström answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-224	Madam President, I would like Unemployment is sky high and continues to increase. Sweden now belongs to Europe's ironing class – only Italy, Greece, Spain and Lithuania have higher unemployment rates than we do. The Corona crisis is only a small part of the explanation for this. Even before Corona, unemployment in Sweden was one of the absolute highest in the EU, despite the promise of the Lövven to the contrary. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment had increased since 2014, when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister. Despite an unprecedented crisis in the labour market, Madam President, the Minister for Labour has not left and does not plan to leave a single bill to combat unemployment. Not a single one. How can Eva Nordmark justify this? To be honest, we leave our unemployed to their fate.
i-9g2qQu3RKm2Q4ouuC3G6Pe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Green, for the question! The government is taking strong measures to ensure both jobs and the economy and invest in welfare and climate change. We have a budget of over 100 billion in investments that both solve societal problems and contribute to jobs. The assessment is that the government budget for this year will contribute to 75 000 jobs. In addition to this, a huge amount of resources, 9 billion, are invested within the framework of labour market policy.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-230	Madam President, I would like This is not the answer to my questions at all. It is still a fact that the Minister for Labour has not put forward a proposal, nor does he intend to present a proposal to combat unemployment. If Sweden had been on the EU average in terms of unemployment, we would have had 42 billion more to invest in welfare. This corresponds, among other things, to more than 60 000 intensive care nurses, something that would definitely have been needed in these times. This is not good enough, Madam President.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-233	Madam President, I would like Sweden is high in unemployment compared to other EU countries. However, we know that during a pandemic it is difficult to compare unemployment statistics. What is also interesting to look at is Eurostat's latest statistics, the for quarter three in 2020. There it turns out that Sweden is at the top of the list in terms of employment. If you also want to look at those aspects and see the light points that actually exist, you can see that if Sweden were to be on the EU average in employment, we would have 450 000 fewer jobs in the country.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-236	Madam President, I would like At the moment, there is a negotiation between EU legislators on a binding minimum wage directive. The directive can have very serious consequences for Sweden and for our model of wage setting. The government has said from the outset that it is trying to fight against this directive, but the question of how credible one is, I think, is quite interesting. Recently, the European Parliament voted on a resolution on this issue. The resolution clearly supports the proposal for a directive on minimum wages. The Swedish Social Democrats chose to vote in favour of this resolution. They also chose not to vote against any of its parts, which one can do. I would therefore like to ask how the credibility of the government's resistance is affected by the fact that one government party's own MEPs is voting in favour of the directive in the European Parliament.
i-FtXLXKvWyzbX2WHh4vYX7J	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for your question! There is no doubt whatsoever about where the Social Democratic Party or government stands. I think it is very important, what we have been doing for some time now among all the parties in this House. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates deviated last time we would formulate a position on this important issue for Sweden. We fully agree – the government, the parties to the Swedish labour market and, of course, the Socialist MEPs – that we do not want to see a directive on minimum wages. We protect the Swedish model and will work into the tile to ensure the Swedish model.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-242	Madam President, I would like You work all the way into the tile. If we are to be honest here, as I think we should be, can you say that you are working all the way into the tile to stop a directive if you do not even have the energy to call Brussels and ask your own party friends to vote against the directive? Can you really say that?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-243	Madam President, I would like This will be a bit embarrassing, when we all know how intense we are working to ensure that we do not get a directive in place that challenges the Swedish party model. Only a few weeks ago, I hosted an important meeting in which we gathered like-minded EU countries to work together to get the Council's Legal Service first to deliver its opinion and to ask the Portuguese Presidency not to open negotiations until this has been clarified.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-245	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström about state venture capital. Grönklittsgruppen, which is based in northern Dalarna, is a success story with its three legs in camping, skiing and theme parks. It has gone from SEK 25 million to SEK 400 million in sales in a short time. Now Inland innovation, which is the state's venture capital company, is planning to leave the group and make an exit. This exit is wrong in several ways. Firstly, it is carried out during a pandemic, and secondly, it is aimed at a Norwegian venture capital company that wants to cut up the Green Klit group into several parts. Today, the headquarters is located in sparsely populated areas. The proposed buyer's office is located in Gothenburg. I was going to ask the Minister and the Government if they think this is a responsible way to dismantle state venture capital, which was part of the 2017 parliamentary decision.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-249	Madam President, I would like Saminvest, like any other limited company, is governed by the Companies Act. In the Swedish Companies Act there is a clear division of responsibilities between owners, board and management. This type of decision on investments and divestments is a matter for Saminvest's board and management, not ownership issues. That is why, unfortunately, it will be impossible for me or any other member of the government to comment on any current transactions. Unfortunately, I may refer any questions to Inland Innovation and Saminvest, who are the ones who make the decisions. We follow the law.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-251	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is what becomes part 22 – Inland innovation and Saminvest blames government and parliament decisions, and the government blames Saminvest. As a result, a lot of jobs and entrepreneurship are being lost from rural areas. The purpose of Inland innovation was to create local development power, to create local entrepreneurship and, above all, to create jobs. Because we do not dare to speak clearly, nothing happens.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-254	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander and I have a lot of things in common. We are fertile from Mora and care about jobs, entrepreneurship and welfare in that area. But we also care about complying with laws and regulations, and when the Companies Act applies to this type of activity, we must all respect it.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-255	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. For almost a year we have had a pandemic where a lot of people have been affected and a lot of people have lost their lives. We know that this has also meant great difficulties for Swedish schools to maintain the standard that we all agree that Swedish schools should be able to maintain. In recent weeks, we have been told that a number of regions recommend that schools be closed on the grounds that ski passengers during the sport holidays are more prioritised. I simply wonder: What is the responsibility of the Minister for Education Anna Ekström when it comes to actually prioritising the school before the upper middle class in Sweden should be able to go on their ski trips during the sports holidays? Surely we agree that school, knowledge and education are more important skis, which I also love?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-258	Madam President, I would like Let there be no doubt whatsoever that school is more important than skiing! In Sweden, the school should be the last thing we close and the first thing we open when we have to impose restrictions in a pandemic. In Sweden, unlike many other countries, we have fought extremely hard to keep our schools as open as possible. It has meant hard work for students, teachers, principals and other staff at school. We will continue this hard work, and we will support the students, the teachers and the other staff. Let there be no doubt whatsoever that school goes first!
i-a29208f460ec67d3-261	Madam President, I would like The reason I am asking this question is that I have actually agreed with the government all the way that we should try to keep schools open as much as possible. We have done the same, and we shall be proud of that. However, when we are faced with a situation where we see that schools have already closed and that schools will have to close, it is not enough for a few phrases from here to be spoken in Parliament, but rather for action to be taken. The government must put its foot down – is it the school or ski trips that are important? So far, it has not been done.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-263	Madam President, I would like I am happy to repeat what I have already said: School goes first. In so far as regional disease control authorities recommend that the school pass over at a distance, this is done in order to protect the disease and ensure that the infection is not spread. To the extent that additional tools are needed for the regional disease control authorities, the Public Health Agency or we all to be able to enforce the rules, the government will take these measures.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-265	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a pandemic, and the government has decided over the past year on a range of business support measures aimed at facilitating those entrepreneurs who have really been affected. There are also companies that started in the previous year in industries that are more vulnerable than others and that now fall outside the support schemes as they do not have any support at all and where the comparison months from 2019 are missing. Restrictions are introduced which in principle prohibit trade and there is no support to be received. Soon the only solution will be bankruptcy, which affects the labour market when jobs are lost.
i-FMbtQvUJuy14YUPZ2qkUFk	( TREDJ E VICE TALMANNEN: Instead, it is Minister for Education Anna Ekström who answers because the question is about a general support system. )
i-a29208f460ec67d3-267	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry about the vermin in this speaker's chair. We are, as the questioner said, in the midst of a pandemic that has brought great effort to our society as a whole. With the support of the Riksdag, the Government has decided on support packages for companies and jobs that are unprecedented in our modern history. The government continues to monitor developments extremely closely and to have constant conversations and contacts with various interests representing entrepreneurs to ensure that we can ensure that jobs are not lost and that businesses and life's work are not wasted. However, we are in a very strained situation. We are following the situation extremely closely and will continue to do so.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-271	Madam President, I would like I thank Anna Ekström for her answer, although it was not the answer to the question I asked. The various company subsidies from the government have been designed and extended during the journey. There is still a great deal to be done to ensure that aid reaches businesses. Is it not clear that it affects the labour market in a negative sense when businesses can no longer be run and when jobs are lost? Do you see this connection, and what is being done concretely from the government? This issue is very serious.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-273	Madam President, I would like I'll answer the question. Of course, the government, like everyone else, sees that jobs can be affected if it is the case that companies have problems, and that companies have problems in the pandemic we find ourselves in is quite obvious. I have lost count of all the amending budgets with which the government has gone to Parliament, and I have lost count of all the billion-dollar packages that the government has presented and received Parliament's consent. We will continue to ensure that we can support entrepreneurship and jobs in this extremely difficult crisis.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-276	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Eva Nordmark. In the country's exclusion areas, unemployment is more than twice as high and the share living with support is more than three times higher than in the rest of Sweden. Median income is low, and the difference in income between women and men is more than 50 percent greater than in the rest of Sweden. Without role models in both women and men who work, dependency on benefits is inherited. Madam President, I would like As if this were not enough, the pandemic is hitting these areas even harder. The situation is considerably worse for foreign born, as the industries that create jobs for them are most affected. That is why we Liberals have started the suburban lift. By 2030, there should be no vulnerable areas. We need to strengthen the security, opportunities and freedom of the more than half a million people living in these areas. My question is how the government intends to break the segregation of the vulnerable areas in terms of the labour market.
i-GfuWXPk23U4Bv2zjuMHHgr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Arman Teimouri, for the question! This is a very important area in which the government, the Liberals and the Center Party have the privilege of working together to develop labour market policy. As an important part of the labour market policy measures, which come very well not least in the areas mentioned here, there is, among other things, a re-launch in April, which is about an intensive year. But what is perhaps most important is to create the conditions for a lasting livelihood by raising the level of education. There we have a common great and important mission to create the conditions for women and men to support themselves.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-282	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, we are doing a great deal within the framework of the January agreement. But I would also like to hear what the government would like to do more on this issue. For the Liberals, it goes without saying that more people have to come to work and support themselves and their families. It is also about investing in schools where the needs are greatest, as the Government said. It is also a question of defending everyone's right to security regardless of where you live in the country. Therefore, the Liberals believe that there should be no areas classified as vulnerable by 2030.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-285	Madam President, I would like A very important measure that we have been able to develop during the pandemic is that people who do not have a job have the opportunity to study with retained compensation. We have also given an assignment in the regulation letter to Arbetsförmedlingen to ensure that more people are transferred to regular education. This is important because, among those who are not self-sufficient and long-term unemployed, basic secondary education is often lacking. This is a very important measure, not least in the exclusion areas.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-288	Madam President, I would like My question is to the Minister for Labour. On 29 January, the Norwegian Government imposed an entry ban on Sweden and Finland. Then the exception for frontier workers also disappeared. 6 000 Swedish commuters are now unable to get to their jobs and risk standing without pay when the border continues to be closed. We have had a long tradition of work commuting in the Nordic countries, and before the pandemic it was obvious to consider our neighbours as an equally self-evident labour market as Sweden. And it is not only Sweden and the Swedish frontier workers who are affected, but also Norway, which is dependent on Swedish labour. I understand the national interest in protecting their people in the pandemic, but that is not an excuse for not taking responsibility for the people affected.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-292	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Völker, for the very important and highly topical question! The day before yesterday, I had a meeting with my counterpart in Norway and then pointed out the absurd situation that we have ended up in. I also pointed out that this is a decision that Norway has taken and that it is Norway that needs to resolve the situation. Today it is the 25th and many Swedes who receive their salary, but we can see that among these border commuters there are those who will lack their salary. What the Norwegian Government needs to do is to ensure that people can get back to their work. From the government's side, it is a high priority to work towards a solution, and we believe that it is Norway that will solve this. In the near future, the issue will also be discussed between our respective prime ministers.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-296	Madam President, I would like Does the Minister of Labour see that this situation can also affect frontier workers in the longer term?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-297	Madam President, I would like We hope that this is something very temporary and that we will have a quick solution on the ground. We have a common Nordic labour market that we need to protect. For many years I have worked unionically on the Nordic arena within the framework of NFS and fought to remove barriers to borders between our labour markets. What is happening now is the creation of new border barriers. At the same time, however, I can see that, during the pandemic, some thirty or so different border barriers have arisen, and we have been able to solve the vast majority of them. This one must also be resolved.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-300	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. When principals and teachers warn that resources are not enough, and when 14.4 per cent of pupils leave comprehensive school without eligibility for the national programme of upper secondary school, it is directly offensive that not every penny of tax intended for the school also stays in school. The Swedish marketing school is unique, and it's not something I'm proud of. No other country allows common tax funds to secure children's education instead to be allocated to profit distribution.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-304	Madam President, I would like I do not know if the House remembers it, but in the last parliamentary term it was actually a vote in this House that was about profit limits sometimes other schools. The vote ended with the fall of the proposal which was then on the table. I can only see that we have a parliamentary majority that has remained quite unchanged since then. And I can see that the kind of proposals that Emma Hult is calling for have rather little opportunity to go through in this Parliament. Like Emma Hult, I and the government parties believe that we should have rules that limit the benefits of welfare. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that we honour the January agreement signed by us, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, and there the government parties have committed themselves not to prepare or produce such proposals during their term of office. There should be no doubt about what we think. But we honour the agreements we have signed, so any proposals on this will not be put on Parliament's table this year.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer, although of course it is not an answer that I would have liked. But I also know what the January agreement says. Free-school reform would contribute to a thriving variety of different types of schools, where different children have equal opportunities to flourish. And I really believe it, but not when it goes to profit distribution. How, then, can we look forward to more free schools actually being there for the sake of pedagogy and not for the sake of money?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-308	Madam President, I would like I assume and expect everyone who runs schools in Sweden to do so out of concern for the knowledge and education of children and adults and not for anything else. We shall have a school law and a school inspection to ensure that the activities are such that children and young people receive the education to which they are entitled. We can work on this in today's Parliament. We can also work to strengthen quality, improve school resources and ensure that resources go to schools where the needs are greatest. We will do that with pride and joy.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-310	Madam President, I would like The risk of a third wave of contamination is now high. We all hope and believe that the vaccination will be effective, but in the event of further spread of infection during the summer and autumn, many cultural and sports events are in danger of actually being knocked out. For a long time we Moderates have had a very good dialogue with many actors in both culture and sport, which this week resulted in a majority in the Finance Committee for a new crisis support, for example for Vätternrundan, Sweden Rock and other important cultural and sporting events. We Moderates are planning for the situation to get worse quickly. My question to Minister of Culture and Sport Amanda Lind is therefore whether the government can now quickly follow the parliamentary majority's proposal for additional support of 3.5 billion, in addition to the government's previous support, and that organisers will receive back 70% if events are cancelled and provide security to ticket buyers.
i-CVDc7WnXYWoT6WvL5P9LJ9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bouveng, for the question! I would like to begin by saying that I welcome the commitment of all parties in this House to the conditions of culture and sport, and I think it is positive that various proposals are being discussed. One of the aims of the government's crisis support for culture and sport is to create the conditions for a restart. After all, the crisis has now been extended and worsened in relation to the situation last autumn, when we set the budget for this year. But we have been able to make several important contributions, including at the beginning of the year. Madam President, I would like We have now also sent out proposals for referrals on what a more differentiated regulatory framework should look like, and I have taken note of the proposal from the Moderates. I think there are some problems with that. It's pretty detailed. I am reluctant to make such detailed proposals. But the focus, that we should support the possibility of a reboot, we fully share. I will of course continue to follow the development and work for more support and also see if adjustments need to be made.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-316	Madam President, I would like Sweden has contributed staff for over 70 years in foreign missions to various extents. Most of us who come back are fine, but that's not for everyone. There are those who, for various reasons, have great problems. To be able to provide these veterans with adequate help, we know that Veteran reception is available at Uppsala University Hospital, where qualified investigations are carried out. However, when the investigations are completed, they are sent back to different regions. There, some regions start their own investigation, and it may be months before the veterans get any help at all. So you do different things.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-319	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question. Some time ago I visited the veteran associations, and this is something that comes up on different occasions. Just as Richthoff says, an investigation is being conducted at the Veteran office. But there are many testimonies that follow-up and other things can shift across the country, and it is a problem that you have to work with all the time. The Ministry sees this as an important issue to follow up on a regular basis. I know there is a problem here, and it is often raised in connection with various types of veteran meetings that I attend. I share this view of reality.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-323	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Sport Amanda Lind. The Public Health Agency issues important regulations and good recommendations in the pandemic, but they do not apply to people engaged in professional sport. This very thing has had absurd consequences in Sundsvall. There we have a hockey team that in 2017 had to close the men's team for economic reasons and is now playing in Division 1, which is two levels below the highest series. In the municipality there is also a figure skating club with riders of elite series class. With reference to professional sport, the municipality has stopped elite skaters from practicing in the ice hall but lets the hockey team continue as usual. One does not escape the suspicion that the municipality values male sports more than female sports in this case. For me, this interpretation is totally unreasonable, unfair and discriminatory. Does the Minister think that the municipality made a correct interpretation of the rules when shutting out female art skaters with elite serial status?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-328	Madam President, I would like I thank Anne-Li Sjölund for the question. It will be difficult for me to comment on a single municipality and individual interpretations that are being made. For me and for the government and also for the Public Health Agency, it has been a priority during the pandemic that children and young people should be able to keep up their training as much as possible. Yesterday, the Public Health Service tightened up the recommendations regarding competition. When it comes to defining professionalism and elites, there may be problematic boundaries. However, I may refer to the good conversation between the Swedish Sports Federation and the Public Health Agency, which discusses this type of boundary and can make more detailed recommendations.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-332	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Amanda Lind. The restoration, repatriation, of objects and remains has been demanded by the indigenous peoples of the world since the 1970s. Repatriation is about the right to the past and your ancestors. It is also about reconciliation between indigenous peoples and states. The society has long called for the creation of a national fund for the recovery of what has been stolen from the Sami people and for it to be examined what is and how it has entered the collections of state museums. What does the Minister think about the fact that it is now descendants who are trying to drive these processes on their own? Does the Minister not think, like the Left Party, that the state should take greater and more active responsibility for the return of Sami remains and sacred objects in consultation with the Sameting and Sami representatives?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-336	Madam President, I would like I thank Jessica Wetterling for the question. This is an important area. The questions of repatriation raise quite a bit of emotion. Great abuses have been committed, which has made it possible for relatives of living Sami and indigenous peoples around the world to find shelves somewhere or collect dust in some museum basement. This is, of course, an unacceptable situation. The Ministry has been working on this issue, and it has developed guides aimed at museums for how to work with return issues in a wise and systematic way. We have moved our positions forward, and my Secretary of State also took part in a return ceremony in Lycksele a few years ago. We will continue to work on these important issues. Of course, I cannot take a position on or comment on everything relating to the budget here in the speaker's chair, but I thank you for the question on an important subject.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-340	Madam President, I would like There are many of us who want to save the independent resource schools. The rate of rejection of additional school applications has increased as a result of the practice in our courts. This means that children with the greatest need for support do not always receive the support they need. Many parents who contact me testify to how moving to the resource school for their children has led to increased knowledge, but also that family life has suddenly gone from chaos to functioning. The resource schools need to remain. Is Minister of Education Anna Ekström prepared to cooperate with the Christian Democrats to give the schools their own definition in the School Act with a financing model that is better adapted to the specific circumstances of the resource schools and the needs of the students?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-343	Madam President, I would like I thank Christian Carlsson for an urgent question. The government wants it to be easier for children and pupils to receive special support, for example in smaller teaching groups, and we want resource schools to develop. Therefore, in 2019, the Government gave an extended mandate to a current investigation to review this issue and develop various proposals. The interim report submitted to the Government is currently in the process of being consulted. At the same time, this is an issue where decisions are largely made in the municipalities, and the discussions that are now taking place among many parents in Sweden are about municipal decisions. This issue must therefore be resolved both at the municipal level and with different types of regulatory framework. As far as regulations are concerned, we now have proposals for referrals. The Government's purpose with these proposals is for the additional payments to provide the support needed for pupils and for the development of resource schools.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-348	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Amanda Lind. In the Government portfolio there are issues related to Roma inclusion, and we have discussed this before. The goal is for the rum that turns 20 in 2032 to have equal opportunities in life as the non-Roma. During the pandemic, we have seen that vulnerable groups are becoming even more vulnerable. It concerns the right and access to health care, the labour market, the housing market and so on.
i-VdhSR2of2ce7uNCboQtpqC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for the question. I fully share the analysis that the risk of the pandemic is that groups that were already exposed in different ways are hit even harder. These are things such as access to education and the labour market, which have weakened in various ways. We continue to have close dialogue with the Roma group through the Roma reference group that we have, and we have also had a special dialogue in relation to the pandemic. We also have the ongoing work on Roma inclusion, where we are currently doing a review to see which of the efforts we have had in this work is important to prolong. I assume that there will be a discussion for the coming years about what we need to do more in this area. I am pleased that we have been able to make some reinforcements in the budget for this year when it comes to minority language libraries. Within the Roma group there is no such thing, and here the Royal Library has now been commissioned. As far as the promotion of reading is concerned, we are therefore in the pipeline, but there are more important areas. We'll have to get back to you.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-354	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. The school must be equal. As you know, the school law shows this. Although the results of knowledge have risen in recent years, we unfortunately see that equivalence has decreased and that shortcomings exist in the current school system. This increases segregation in school rather than counteracting it. Although it often sounds like all parties here in Parliament agree that equivalence is an important issue, we see that a number of parties defend the current school market. For us Social Democrats, it is self-evident and important to protect the free choice of schools, but it should apply to everyone. How does the Government view the need to change the queue system that exists today, in order to break segregation at school?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Kronståhl, for an important question. We will have an equal school of knowledge in Sweden. If we are to have a school where students and parents can freely choose, it is important to ensure that the choice is equal. Having queue systems for independent schools as a selection basis is unfair. It benefits children whose parents have put them in line already at BB. It benefits children who never move across municipal boundaries. It contributes to a strengthened segregation and to differences between schools. It helps those free schools who might want to attract students who don't have much to teach. I think the queue system is bad. The report on the abolition of queue systems that have been consulted has received strong support on liberal leadership pages, on debate pages, on cultural sites and among teachers, principals and many others. I hope that this support will also be available here in the Swedish parliament because the abolition of the queue system in our schools would benefit both knowledge and justice.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-361	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to report measures for contaminated areas. The Swedish Armed Forces have recently submitted their report. There are 2,090 contaminated sites, but only 173 of them have been further investigated. In addition to these areas, there are areas that have been contaminated by PFAS. The report shows that the Swedish Armed Forces are now demanding research and innovation, not that they have taken or intend to take any rapid action, even though methods already exist. In Uppsala, the drinking water revenue in Åsen has been contaminated by PFAS, which originates from the defence operations at Ärna airfields. It is urgent to take measures to reduce the risk of long-term pollution. How does the government intend to act to ensure that the areas contaminated with PFAS can be quickly cleaned up?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-364	Madam President, I would like This type of issue is governed by legislation and regulations and is ultimately defined by the Environmental Court. There is a special scheme for how to handle this and how to use this type of chemicals. My view is that the Swedish Armed Forces are seriously dealing with this type of issue. This is something that is included in the various follow-ups that we do to the Swedish Armed Forces. We are working according to the legislation and regulations that exist in this context.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-366	Madam President, I would like The cheating in the study associations has been a highly topical topic recently. The self-examination carried out by the unions shows that over 1 million study hours are wrong. There is systematic and fraudulent exploitation of study associations. In the Committee on Culture, therefore, we Moderates have proposed an external audit and review of associations – a proposal for an initiative which the committee is now formally preparing. Since our proposal was made, however, even more gravitating testimony has emerged, as Associate Professor Magnus Ranstorp and several reported on this weekend at DN Debate. There is talk of breathtaking figures — that 60 - 70 percent of all study association activities would be cheating. This represents nearly SEK 1 billion of taxpayers' money. The government needs to get to the bottom of this. My question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström is therefore: Is the government planning to initiate the necessary external review already now, or must the Riksdag first decide on this for the government?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-369	Madam President, I would like This is a very important issue. Cheating and irregularities obscure the sight of all the good that happens in our study associations and in the name of public education in Sweden. Cheating and irregularities shall not occur. However, we who are a little over the years know that, at least as long as I have lived, there have been everything from rumors to proven cheating. It's supposed to be countered. The Government has therefore decided that the Folkbildningsrådet will submit a special report to the Government by 15 April. The Folkbildningsrådet shall, among other things, describe what measures have been taken and are planned to be taken and how to ensure that the state grant to the student associations is used only according to the purpose of the support and also specific regulations and conditions. We have highlighted in particular the condition of democracy, which is absolutely crucial. The government will not give up on ensuring that our important education goes to culture and education, not to cheating and irregularities.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-372	Madam President, I would like The Covidpandemic has hit the whole community hard and, above all, the school hard. The government chose early in December to cancel large parts of this year's national test instead of focusing on creating a safe process and securing test times. Perhaps they had later had to cancel the tests, but to decide it so early sent the wrong signals to both teachers and students. National tests are by far the most important support for rating. Many teachers and students are now demanding clear grade support as adequate remuneration. There are many students who have struggled for a long time to get the chance to really show what they have learned. With a school that already today has a high grade inflation, which unfortunately is the largest in municipal schools, we now risk losing control of the level of our students' education. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I would like to ask the Government: Will the Government ensure that the National Agency for Education produces adequate grade support?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-375	Madam President, I would like National tests are good grade support, but they should serve as grade support. If they are to act as grade support and fulfil the function that they are required to perform under the School Act, namely to contribute to teachers' getting the right grade, they must be given in a fair and equivalent way. And then all children and students in the same year will go into cramped school premises of different kinds and write the exams at the same time. You should also be sure that the samples will arrive, which you certainly cannot be in a pandemic. For practical reasons, the National Agency for Education has therefore decided to cancel this year's national test, with some exception. I regret this decision, but I understand it. I have no intention of amending or going in and adjusting the decision or taking the initiative to change it. We have to realise that the pandemic creates completely new conditions for both teachers and students, and I am pleased that the Swedish National Agency for Education will ensure that there is grade support out there for teachers so that students can get the grades they deserve – fair and equal – regardless of the school form.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-378	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. The Swedish Armed Forces are facing a huge expansion. The key issue for its success is the supply of human resources. There are a lot of people who agree. In order to be successful with staff and officers, it will take a lot of effort; everyone realises that. Perhaps the lowest hanging fruit on the political table concerns the GSS soldiers. At the moment, they are governed by legislation that makes them employed on a temporary basis eight plus four years, i.e. twelve years in total. The first employee around 2010 will soon fall for the line and cannot be permanently employed then. My question to the Minister for Defence is: Is the Minister for Defence prepared to change this legislation? That, however, is what we as politicians can do.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-382	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. As far as human resources are concerned, we have in fact already implemented the most important measure that can be implemented, and that was the reactivation of military service. I visit a lot of units. Right now I have meetings on Skype or Zoom with bandages. Then I usually talk to conscripts. Then I usually get the impression that it is a good education and that there is an interest in continuing within the Swedish Armed Forces. According to the defense decision taken by the Riksdag, we have decided to go up from 4,900 conscripts to 8,000 conscripts. This increases the entire recruitment base. Then, of course, there are many other measures that can be taken. Then you have to look over and be flexible when it comes to these pieces. Then you can also look at this piece. But I make no promise.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-387	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. There are very worrying signals coming from folk high schools that are warning of a difficult economic situation for a large number of schools. Especially tough is the economy of schools that have boarding facilities. The situation of the last year with distance teaching and cancellation of conferences and short-term courses has been a major economic problem which has not been covered by the state aid for crisis that has been in place. This could be as much as 20,000 lost weeks of participation. From the Left Party we are concerned that schools will have to get rid of premises. In the long run, it means worsening opportunities for them to teach in the successful way they have been doing for over 100 years. The pedagogy and unique structure of folk high schools is especially needed in times of high unemployment. Unfortunately, I also believe that many of the high school students who have studied remotely may need a place at a folk high school in the future to make up for lost knowledge.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-392	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question. Our folk high schools also play a very important role during the pandemic. Our folk high schools, like many of our other forms of activity, have been severely affected financially by the pandemic. I can assure the questioner and the whole Parliament that I am following this situation very closely. We have ongoing contact from the Ministry with the Folkbildningsrådet and with the various organizations of folkhögskolan. I would also like to remind you that many folk high schools have the opportunity to apply for a great deal of the support measures that the government has taken. This may, for example, involve the conversion aid to firms whose turnover has been reduced. We have also announced a reinforcement several times about the activities of folk high schools. In addition, I would like to point out that we have taken steps to bring forward various forms of action. I am following this situation very closely for the simple reason that our folk high schools play such an important role, not least for the many young people who will need a fresh start after the pandemic.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-398	Madam President, I would like According to the government, by 2020, last year, we would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. When they took over 2014 we were in 10th place. In 2018, we had slipped down to 18th place. And last year we were in an unimpressive 23rd place. The inability to meet goals is one thing. But what I am more concerned about is the new figures that I have received and which raise a very strong concern at least in my mind. For example, in 2021, the number of people enrolled as unemployed and with a low competitiveness is expected to reach nearly 300 000 people. Long-term unemployment is 33.3 per cent, and one in five foreign born is unemployed.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-402	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Mr Eklind's very important question. During the last term of office, the unemployment target served as an important steering year for government policy. And I can see that the employment rate has increased since 2014. There are light points, but of course we have a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market and also a very uncertain situation as a result of the pandemic. We need to focus fully on the long-term unemployed because there is a risk of people getting stuck in long-term unemployment. That is why we are taking such strong measures, in terms of the budget as such, of labour market policy and also of education policy. Basically, it is about ensuring that people get the right education. Without upper secondary education it is very tough in the Swedish labour market today. That is why education is also an important part of labour market policy. I hope that we can continue to work together to break this very worrying development. There is no doubt that this is a serious situation, but we are investing very hard and we are going to create the best conditions for people.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-407	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. We Social Democrats want an effective and popular defence. Reactivation of military service was therefore a very good thing to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces and secure personnel supply in the long term. At home in Blekinge there are just over 300 conscripts who are appreciated and welcome both by Blekinge residents and by the Swedish Armed Forces. My question concerns how they are now suffering from an ongoing pandemic. How can we be sure to keep the spread of the disease away when they are in the field? Can they have their home trips and leave, and how does the pandemic affect them at all?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. In the case of conscripts, the training and training activities within the Swedish Armed Forces have been adapted to the circumstances. There have been cancellations, postponements and reprogramming of practice activities. Nevertheless, comprehensive and adapted training and training activities are being carried out in order to carry out initial training satisfactorily. The number of home trips has also been reduced. Enrolment was slightly reduced. It had been planned for 5,000, but it was 4,900 as a result of the pandemic. However, I have to say that my impression is, after talking to conscripts on several occasions during the pandemic, that conscripts feel that basic education is generally being implemented satisfactorily in the light of current circumstances.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-414	Madam President, I would like I have a general policy question that goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. We have been very affected by the pandemic; there is no doubt about it. We have learned new words such as care debt and knowledge debt. Now I'm afraid it'll also be a university test debt. It is worrying that during 2020 the spring exams were cancelled, and the autumn exams were finally carried out after many discussions but with limitations. Now I look with great concern at what will happen with the spring test and of course also with the whole year's test. Many students are very worried. This is a second chance and an opportunity to enter higher education. The Moderates see, of course, that there is a contagion. But we also believe that we are now much more prepared than we were last year when we said, for example, that we did not have good premises. Now there are many premises on offer, such as Scandinavium in Gothenburg and Stadshuset in Stockholm. My question, therefore, is whether we should not be able to resolve this as appropriately as possible.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-420	Madam President, I would like As Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström knows, it is the UHR that is the responsible authority and, finally, in consultation with the Public Health Agency and the regional infectious disease doctors, can decide whether the university test can be carried out in a safe manner. We have been assisted by a special national test coordinator who assists the authorities in this work. The Swedish Council for Higher Education plans to conduct two university exams during the spring, one in March and one in April. The possibility to participate has been limited for reasons of infection protection, which somewhat simplified means that those who are in the last year of high school or older than that may write the test. All just under 60 000 persons who have reported interest and who fulfil the conditions have been accommodated in one of the tests. However, as we all know, the spread of infection is still at a high level, so no guarantees can be given. But the government has taken steps to ensure that there are the best possible conditions for carrying out these two tests, and I hope – for many different reasons – that they will be able to do so.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-422	Madam President, I would like My question is also general political and goes to Minister Anna Ekström. Today, a pensioner who has worked and worked his whole life gets a shameful little of his salary in retirement. It may be so bad that a person who has worked for 50 years receives only 45% of his final salary. That is unacceptable. The government has tried to patch up and fix a broken pension system with the pension supplement, but the disappointment has been great when the government seems to be talking about SEK 600 when it actually means SEK 25 more a month for those with the worst pension. This corresponds to about two litres of milk. The Swedish Democrats have made proposals to the government to investigate the possibility of strengthening pension provision and to exchange this for lower salary contributions, but it was voted down last year and will be voted down today by all the other parties in the Riksdag. Nevertheless, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi has made promises to review and strengthen pension provision. What about the Social Democrats and the government? Do you want to strengthen pension provision or not? It becomes rather unclear when you say one thing in the media and vote for the opposite in Parliament.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-426	Madam President, I would like I can assure Julia Kronlid and everyone else that the government has given priority to raising the pension for broad groups of employees. Working should pay off, and working should pay off. In September this year, the pension will be increased for those who have worked a long working life. The increase is made through a supplement to the income pension of up to SEK 600 per month. The government also sees it as necessary to increase the pension contribution in order to increase the contributions to the system. As Julia Kronlid points out, that is the government's position. The reason is that raising pension levels is an important measure, and for us to be able to do so in the long term, an increase in pension contributions is needed. Within the Pensions Group, discussions on a long-term solution for higher pensions will now intensify, and we all know that the Pensions Group is capable of making decisions. It was shown as late as the other day.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-429	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Education Anna Ekström and is about personal finances, but not about my personal finances, but about the subject linked to education in primary and secondary schools. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority delivered its annual consumer protection report yesterday. It describes young people with a low income as most at risk of falling into the debt trap. This may not be a surprising conclusion, but trade patterns are changing rapidly: they move to the net, and payment and debt become an integral part of trade. Finansinspektionen says that it is young people up to the age of 25 who end up in these problems and who are most at risk of doing so. Private economic education, as the Minister of Education of course knows, takes place in secondary and secondary schools. Some things are being done today; Young Private Economy is an example, and Kronofogden with several authorities has worked with Koll on the cash. My question is: How does the Government view the role of the school in strengthening the field of private finance?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question, Per Schöldberg! I have a message of joy: within the framework of the new curricula decided by the government this summer – we have developed them together with the Centers and Liberals – the private economy components on the subject of home and consumer knowledge will be strengthened. It is for one reason, namely that those who are pupils in school today should have the knowledge of life that they need to manage in a difficult market with loan promises and other things that can attract young people. Other subjects that are important for navigating these difficult markets, such as mathematics and social science, also receive new and good curricula. Unfortunately, the curricula will have to be postponed for a year because of the pandemic, but together we will make sure that we strengthen young people's opportunities to learn a lot about what they need. This is the kind of knowledge that Per Schöldberg very wisely points out, so I thank you for the question.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-436	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. We live, as everyone knows, in a serious and threatening climate change. One area where action would be needed is the production of fossil-free energy, where wind power plays a major role. Unfortunately, the expansion of wind power, especially offshore wind power, is slow, partly because the Swedish Armed Forces' national interests take precedence and thus stop projects. Recently, possible extension areas in the sea plans were also reduced due to the interests of the defence. My question to the Minister for Defence is therefore: How does the government plan to work to combine defence activities and the expansion of offshore wind power so that the number of wind turbines can be increased and a coexistence between the Swedish Armed Forces and wind power?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-439	Madam President, I would like There is a fundamental interest in the fact that fossil-free energy sources can be expanded in different ways in our society. But it is also the case that we must safeguard the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to operate in a relevant way, especially in a situation where we need to operate operationally. It should really be possible, and then we cannot implement plans that seriously restrict those opportunities. This is ultimately about the defence of Sweden. On the other hand, we do have specific regulations for this, to which I referred earlier. There are environmental courts and different types of rules and application procedures that govern how to handle this purely administratively in relation to existing laws and regulations. It is in these contexts that the Swedish Armed Forces also have to speak out and assert their interest.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-441	Madam President, I would like As early as 2019, the government's investigators in the Democracy Condition Investigation proposed a new democracy condition for contributions to communities and non-profit associations. However, the government has not yet put forward any proposals on this in Parliament. This week the City of Gothenburg announced that they are withdrawing their contribution of 800 000 SEK to the Islamic Association of Students Ibn Rushd. The decision is based on the application of the Democracy Condition Investigation. So there is already a ready-made proposal that can be applied nationally. However, both Ibn Rushd and some of the subversive organisations with which they cooperate continue to receive state subsidies and other tax funds. For example, the Islamic centre in Gothenburg, which has imams directly employed by the Turkish regime, receives contributions from SST. How long should we have to wait before we can withdraw at national level contributions to organisations and communities that spread hatred against Jews, women and LGBT people and that actually contribute to the espionage of refugees to dictatorial regimes?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for the question. We have talked about this before in this House too. We have been asked how the clarified and strengthened conditions for democracy are taking some time. During the preparation, it became clear that we need to look further at the issue of personal data processing. Of course, it would have been good if this had been discovered in the past, but we must ensure that once we get the clarified democracy conditions on the ground, it will also be possible to apply them in a good way. Therefore, we need to clarify the issue of personal data processing. What is good, and which we also presented during the preparation process, is that we have added an additional directive to make it possible to set up a support function – something that Mr Säpo has asked for. Then we can also get more information so that we ensure that public money does not go to extremists or those who simply do not have this money. I think that is an important question. We have said from the government that our ambition is for us to come forward with this during our term of office and make a proposal to Parliament.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-450	Madam President, I would like I first have a little reflection on the previous replica shift when it comes to there are no bonus options for light trucks. The EU has allowed an increase in the total weight of electrically driven light goods vehicles, from 3,500 kg to 4,250 kg, in order to be able to carry some load in addition to the battery. However, this possibility has been stuck somewhere in the Swedish legislative process. The Center Party is a party that has previously claimed to be a rural party that defends rural interests. I would like to ask Helena Vilhelmsson to what extent she believes that this proposal does not benefit but disadvantages rural and sparsely populated areas. Of course, we are aware that people living in rural areas rarely have the same opportunity as myself or Mrs Vilhelmsson to get to work with well-developed public transport. Often it is rather the car that applies. The further north you reach, the longer the commuting steps become and the less functional it becomes with an electric car. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the bonus part of the bonus – the Malus system was paid 80 per cent to some metropolitan municipality. While taking into account population, sales of new cars and more companies and leasing cars, they note that there is an uneven geographical distribution of subsidies where rural areas are disadvantaged. Mr Vilhelmsson mentioned this in his speech. Nevertheless, I would like to hear her develop her views on the fact that bonuses – the Malus system puts rural and sparsely populated areas at a disadvantage.
i-KKDFuqqryPxA95GnZiUrx2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Westroth! The honourable Member mentioned that not everyone is as good as us, who can get to work with well-developed public transport. I can't do it with less than the days I'm in Stockholm. I am a typical rural resident and am not able to use public transport. So I'm addicted to the car. I want to reflect a little on that view of rural residents and businesses. Generally speaking, it often appears that rural businesses and people living in rural areas are almost socially vulnerable, poor and living in economic misery. That's not really the case. All the rural entrepreneurs I know are proud of their jobs. They have innovative businesses, work well and are quite successful. But of course there are challenges. However, I am slightly opposed to this debate. Only a few weeks ago we were able to read an article in DN, I think it was, about a rural entrepreneur from a small town in Värmland who got the prize for an innovation. The reporter asked why he didn't move to Stockholm. Why would he do that? In my speech, I have touched on the points that the honourable Member is asking about. I did not know about the EU rules. We'll have to take that with us. But again, the current system is complicated. Mom and Dad to that construction is the government. In the negotiations, we wanted to simplify and improve, but we have not made it all the way. The construction of light trucks, which many companies use, is one of the things that we will push on incredibly much for the next revision.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-460	Madam President, I would like I myself come from the country, Gnosjö, and do not have much public transport to rely on. So I know that we are in no way less able to make it there. Another point I want to make is that camping is a classic Swedish way of holidaying. It is actually one of the most climate-smart ways to vacation, according to several research institutes. We know that camping takes place mainly in caravans and motorhomes and that it is primarily rural people – it is the same there – who use these vehicle types to vacation. Now the industry feels that the government is putting hooks on them. For example, electric cars need to be approved to pull caravans. In addition, the annual tax on a normal new motorhome increases even more with this bonus – the malus system. Over 30,000 are not a tax level that a pensioner couple or a family of children can laugh away. Sure, you can set off the camper when it's not in use. But the big problem is that there are no bonus options. It doesn't look like it's gonna be any of them either. I also note that a camper drives an average of 700 km per year. Now, to be honest, some companies in the industry have fared better than others, largely because of the growth of the heme beach. Hopefully some have discovered our beautiful country and continue to vacation here. But it is likely that when we can soon and hopefully start travelling again, many resuscitated Swedes will leave the country on their holiday to travel to warmer latitudes. Does the honourable Member not think that it would have been reasonable to do as a majority of the other countries in Europe and exempt the motor vehicle type from the bonus – the Malus system and this kind of penalty taxation, at least as long as there is no bonus option?
i-vEQUBbnuLJLasDoU718wk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Westroth! A short answer is: Yes, that would have been reasonable. That is exactly what we have negotiated with the government. We fully agree that it is unreasonable for all vehicle types, such as pickups and motor homes, to be handled within the same system as passenger cars. In fact, we agree – I look at the representatives here – that it should be reviewed. I hope it will happen sooner rather than later. That is quite right, as the honourable Member says; in some EU countries, the motorhome is classified as recreational vehicles and therefore has other benefits. So, of course, it should be here too. Another thing we have pushed for in negotiations is to make it easier for motorhome owners. One thing that we pushed from the beginning is that it will be easy to set off and on, so that you can get away with the costs. You should basically be able to do it in the app. I hope that proposal is under way. I'm a little unsure about how it is. But that's one way to get to it. We'll include this in the upcoming review. It is established that it should be evaluated on an ongoing basis.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-468	Madam President, I would like Historically, the Center Party has been in favour of entrepreneurship and development, especially of tourism and tourism. We all remember Eskil Erlandsson's efforts in terms of food and drink. We also remember the development of destinations, which Annie Lööf worked with when she was Minister of Economic Affairs. There has also always been a concern that it should be possible to live and live in rural areas. It was during the alliance period. As I listened to Helena Vilhelmsson, I got a glimmer of hope when she reported so well on all the flaws in the bonus – the Malus proposal. There are shortcomings in the taxation of light trucks used by craftsmen. There are shortcomings affecting people who want to buy a camper and then go around and visit sights in Sweden and stay, sleep and eat well. Not least, people in rural areas should have the same opportunities as others. Because it's not just about having money and opportunities, it's also about geographical distances and accessible attractions. I had a hope, however, that the Centre Party would opt to support this reprehensible proposal despite the fact that there are many critical points of view. Why don't you join our reservation and vote no? Get rid of that suggestion! It hurts everyone. It also reduces the reputation of those who consider themselves to be opposed to the proposal but still vote in favour of it.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-471	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Boriana, for the innovative proposal on how I can vote on this matter! The truth is that I am open and clear that there are shortcomings in the system, but there are also many advantages, which I am open to. We have a commitment to reduce mainly CO2 emissions. We have a huge commitment here, nationally and internationally. That is why we agree to the proposal. As I explained in my speech, we will be on the changes that need to be made to the disadvantages raised by the honourable Member. We will also be on to improve the bonus part in particular. Our maximum ceiling is 100 000 SEK for new purchases of a car. Sometimes it sounds to those who want to vote against the proposal that all the accidents on earth should happen from 1 April, but this applies to those who buy new cars. I could vote in favour of the Moderate reservation if it contained proposals that were environmentally better, but I can't find any. Therefore, I would like to return a question to the Moderates: what are your proposals to improve the measures against CO2 emissions instead of bonuses?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-476	Madam President, I would like We think, like those who represent the business community, that you should not tax the act of buying a new car. It's hitting the manufacturers. If no one buys a new car, they have no opportunity to develop innovative technology and invest in ever better engines. As it is now, internal combustion engines are so good that there are environmental alternatives for light trucks that are efficient. True, they make up only 4% of those who have been bought, but they do exist anyway. However, this is not taken into account in the proposal, which is why we are opposed to it. In a short time, the government and the cooperation parties have launched four different instruments that run counter to each other and do not lead to what will save us from climate change, namely the development of new technologies and innovation. Instead, they put away the bones of the manufacturers. The results are very good in, for example, Bil Sweden's referrals. And as I have already said, this hits those living in rural areas. No one can convince me that people who do not have access to charging infrastructure and do not have access to electricity all year round at all times of the day should invest in an electric car that is favoured in this proposal.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-479	Madam President, I would like I did not quite understand any specific proposal from the Moderates as to what is better than this proposal which contains both bonus and malus. After all, all reforms are to be financed, whether they are innovative new technologies. For the next debate or reform, I await more concrete proposals from the Moderates. We want people to buy new cars. That is the whole point of this. More new energy-smart cars will emerge on the market. That's why we're doing a bonus reform. That it does not come at the same time, I have already regretted. It should have. I have said in previous lines that I do not really share the view that this puts away the legs of the entrepreneur and the rural residents. What would put away the bones would be raising the fuel tax, that is to say, the operating costs. This, on the other hand, is a cost that you have when buying a new car, and the cost is relatively low compared to what the whole car purchase is about. The charging infrastructure is a very important issue. We have therefore got the government to invest 50 million in expanded charging infrastructure during the autumn. As I said in my speech, you cannot, of course, govern taxes if people are not able to choose. My assessment is once again that there are probably far more cars in metropolitan regions that enjoy both bonuses and malus. So I am not entirely convinced that this is only hitting the countryside, as it sounds on M, KD and SD. However, there are things to improve, and we will do so.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-484	Madam President, I would like The car is a crucial part of everyday life for many people in our society. It is no wonder, as the car more than any other means of transport contributes to greater freedom and flexibility. In smaller communities and in rural areas, the car is particularly important, and we Christian Democrats have therefore put forward several proposals to make life easier for people in rural areas. These include the increase in mileage but also the introduction of a new tax system which would mean lower taxes for those living in rural areas in particular. What many often forget is that the car is extremely important to our companies. Many craft professions, for example, depend on the flexibility and transport capacity that the car can offer. Many of these companies could hardly have existed if the car did not exist. In any case, they would have had a significantly lower efficiency. In this way, the car has been crucial to the development of our welfare society. I am convinced that the car will continue to play an important role in the future. Madam President, I would like Having said that, it is clear that emissions from cars and road traffic as a whole are a problem that needs to be addressed. However, I want to make it clear that it is the emissions from the car, not the car itself, that is the problem. The fact that we are now moving towards an ever larger electrified car fleet is therefore extremely important, at least as long as the electricity is fossil-free. What is probably most important for more people to buy electric cars is that there is a well-developed charging infrastructure. But there are also more ways to steer towards a more environmentally friendly car fleet. The government has introduced a bonus – malus system where environmentally friendly vehicles with relatively low carbon dioxide emissions receive a bonus at the time of purchase, while vehicles with higher carbon dioxide emissions receive higher tax. We believe that it is fundamentally good to steer towards the choice of more environmentally friendly cars at the time of purchase, but we also see that there are problems with the bonus – the malus system. According to representatives of the automotive industry, the changes introduced by the government in the current system slow down the sale of environmentally friendly cars. We want a completely new vehicle and fuel taxation, which takes account of where the car is driven, when the car is driven and what kind of car is being driven. This will make it possible to steer more effectively towards more environmentally friendly choices. We also believe that this tax should first be introduced in the haulage industry, which means that we can see if it works while at the same time having the opportunity to tax foreign hauliers operating in Sweden. However, until this system exists, other instruments are needed. We have argued in the past that the bonus part of the bonus – the malus system will change, so that it will be paid out gradually over a multi-year period, making it less interesting to export environmental cars. We have also said that the handling of light trucks needs to be reviewed. Today, smaller trucks are taxed unfairly, making it more expensive for smaller companies that already have small margins. Furthermore, there is a need for a review of the management of motor homes, which currently receives an extremely high level of taxation, despite the fact that they do not account for a large proportion of CO2 emissions. In the budget bill last autumn, the government proposed a tightening up of bonuses – the Malus system. We Christian Democrats opposed this. The consequences of the proposal in the Government's budget are too great a difference in how hybrid cars, for example, are treated compared to fully electric vehicles. This is negative for the shift to increasingly environmentally friendly cars, as hybrid cars are often the way into the electric car market. Anyone who bought a hybrid car a few years ago has easier access to a pure electric car today. Anyone who buys a hybrid car today will have easier access to a pure electric car in a few years' time. But now the government is putting a stop to this positive development. That is very regrettable. The system is also in danger of delaying the renewal of the vehicle fleet, as second-hand cars that are not environmental cars will be relatively cheap to own compared to new cars with Malus. The Christian Democrats' budgetary options halve the announced Malus effect, and the proposed tightening up to achieve bonuses is not implemented. Had our proposal gone through in the budget vote last autumn, the car tax in the bonus – the Malus system had been reduced by SEK 165 million already at the turn of the year. Next year, 2022, it would have been SEK 425 million lower tax, and by 2023 the tax would have been SEK 654 million lower than the government proposes. The KD wishes to see a change in the fleet of vehicles, but this must be done in such a way that people can afford to buy in the new cars. Unfortunately, the government's policy will result in fewer electric and hybrid cars being registered. Mr President, I would like to Since the Christian Democrats' budget option fell into the Parliament's vote on the framework decision on the budget 2021, we refrain from taking part in the decision and have no claim. We set out our views in our budget and in a separate opinion in today's report.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-494	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report 'Strengthening and simplifying environmental governance in bonuses' – the Malus system. We support the committee's proposal for a decision. Let me start by saying that the bonus – the Malus system is one in a series of instruments to reduce climate emissions. Other important instruments are the reduction obligation and currently also the benefit value linked to CO2 emissions from company cars, when the majority of rechargeable cars are currently sold to companies. It is important to see the whole picture and that our combined actions have the effect we want to achieve. Liberals have developed a policy to achieve the Swedish goals. By 2045 we will withstand net zero emissions of climate gases. Before that, we will reach the sector-specific target for transport: 70% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 compared to 2010. These are tough targets. If we are to succeed in such a short time, a number of measures are needed. The most important measure, as we see it, is the electrification of road transport, as road transport accounts for more than 90% of the emissions included in the 2030 target. Electrification needs to be complemented with fossil-free fuels during the transition in order to reduce emissions from the existing fleet of vehicles. Liberals have the basic principle that those who pollute should pay, and we want to avoid subsidies. However, we believe that, in the event of technological leaps and with our tough timetable for 2030, it may be justifiable for a short transitional period to provide certain subsidies to speed up the transition. Mr President, I would like to These are the openings of the Liberals when we assess instruments in the field of climate change. For transport: How can we get the fastest possible transition to electrification while meeting people's needs for everyday transport and apportioning the cost in an acceptable way? Today's decision here in Parliament concerns the tax part of the bonus – the Malus system. We believe in bonus – the effect of the Malus system to get car buyers to choose rechargeable cars and to speed up the technology shift. As the sales of rechargeable cars increase significantly – by 2020 they accounted for 30 percent of the total number of cars sold – a continuous review of the system is needed, as the system should be self-financing. We increase the tax by SEK 25 per gram on cars with emissions over 90 grams per kilometre, raise the premium for electric cars to SEK 70 000 and lower the bonus limit to 60 grams per kilometre. Our starting point for bonus – the Malus system is that the bonus for an electric car should not increase. An increase calls for increased tax collection, and electric cars are falling rapidly in price, as it is now. Load hybrid cars remain important for the transition to pure electric cars and will be included in the bonus – the Malus system along with gas cars. However, the emission limit for bonuses for these cars shall be continuously reduced. The same applies to the limit on the taxation of malus cars. We want to see a long-term system that extends until 2025, and we find it unfortunate that today's decision is only for 2021 and comes one month before the law comes into effect. We believe that better anticipation is needed in order for all players in the market to have a chance to adapt to new laws. We want to see continuously reduced emission limits in the future of this system, so that they are lowered over time for both bonuses and malus up to 2025 and control stations adjust the levels so that the system remains self-financing. After 2025, we believe that the total cost of a rechargeable car is the same as that of a fossil-powered car, and then the bonus – the malus system is no longer needed. Then market forces manage the transition themselves. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out an evaluation of the system and points out, among other things, the problems with the export of rechargeable cars. A proposal to remedy this has been out for consultation. Liberals believe that the refund of bonuses should be made if the car is exported, but the liability must follow the car. It can't be on the first owner. The level of the recovery order shall be reduced in relation to the length of time that has elapsed since the bonus was paid. We can hear in the debate that bonuses – Malus only brings benefits to the urban population. But then you miss that it is often the case that leasing companies in the big cities own the car and get the bonus, while the car can be used elsewhere in Sweden. One also misses that with increased sales of rechargeable cars we create a second-hand market for cars at price levels where many more consumers can afford to buy a rechargeable car. At present, when rechargeable cars are still expensive, it is positive that companies offer their employees rechargeable cars and thus take a large part of the large depreciation that takes place during the first three years. It is during the first three years that the malus loads the car. If we succeed in getting a high proportion of rechargeable cars now we will have many up to ten years old rechargeable cars in 2030 that more car buyers can afford. That is how we need to think about whether we want to change the fleet of vehicles and reduce emissions. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to turn to those who now want to remove the bonus – the Malus system and point out that charging infrastructure and the production of electricity and biofuels are what we should invest in. Those areas are very important. I fully agree with that. At the same time, however, there will be no change if there are no vehicles that can use the infrastructure and fuels. I would like to point out, for example, that almost a year ago the Moderates said that they wanted to scrap the system and that they would soon present an alternative system. I'm still waiting for that proposal. We Liberals are always prepared to listen to good proposals. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I support the committee's proposal.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-509	Mr President, I would like to The President was not present earlier in the debate. I've been a little horrified when I've been listening to the rhetoric. There have been a lot of complaints about the reform. There is talk of symbolic politics. Some have said that there are errors and shortcomings without saying what those errors and shortcomings are. Let's look at the effect of bonus-malus. What's the effect? It's right through a thunder success in every way possible. If we look at the increase of rechargeable vehicles in 2020, it is an increase of 132 percent. This represents 32% of new car sales. It's a very big increase. I, who have now been involved in climate policy for a number of years, remember that right at the beginning of the government's time in power, when we took over power, it was about per millen or single percent that were rechargeable vehicles in new car sales. So there has been a huge increase. It has also been stepped up in 2020. In December we were up to almost half of all new cars. This means that Sweden is the best in the EU in terms of the transition to a more sustainable fleet of vehicles. That is what the Right calls symbolic politics. In reality, it is very effective wedge food policy. This is because there is an inherent logic in the bonus – the malus system that makes the bonus – the malus is very effective. It is based on giving bonuses to climate-smarter cars and taking in taxes from those who emit a lot. Over time, of course, the more climate-smart cars are increasing, forcing them to increase taxes on the dirty cars. This in itself leads to further acceleration of the transition. This is a very brilliant system that very many countries in the EU have put in place precisely because it is effective and is really driving the change. This thunder success is now threatened by parts of the right. First of all, it would have consequences for climate action. Very many of our parties have signed the Climate Act with goals for 2030. That goal is threatened if right-wing politics goes through. I would like to spend a few minutes explaining what these changes mean to ordinary people. It is people in the countryside and people who struggle to get their finances together every month. The changes that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats want to push through are a direct blow to those groups. This means, in practice, having to raise taxes from ordinary people in order to finance large and thirsty suvaes for wealthy urban dwellers. It is the consequence of proposals which mean that the system goes backwards and which, moreover, do not choose to tighten up the bonus so that it is more governing. What is even more serious – and now I am speaking in the last few years – is that the consequence of scrapping the system will be that we get fewer electric cars and rechargeable cars into new car sales, which at a later stage is hitting the secondary market hard. This means that if we were to get through the policy pursued by the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, we would instead get a second-hand sale that would mean more thirsty cars. This means that those who cannot afford new cars will have to relate to a secondary market where they are forced to buy thirsty cars, with which there will be great costs. An electric car is in operation one-tenth as expensive as thirsty cars, i.e. petrol and diesel cars. It is the countryside and those who do not have as much money to move with that will have to take the bill for the climate policy of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. I will just say a few words about reform and the future. It is an essential part of climate policy. But it is part of a whole. That is important to note. Just electrification of transport is not enough. We also need to work with the other parts. This is about a low-carbon economy. It is important to increase opportunities for access, cycling and public transport through attractive investments in attractive public transport, walking and cycling, and sustainable prices. It is also a question of dealing with today's fleet of vehicles. There we need alternative fuels to a greater extent to phase out fossil fuels. First, it is a low-carbon economy and sustainable fuels. The last part is electrification, and in the long term it is the big and important part of this. There is charging infrastructure, which several have been into, central. The government has expanded about 40,000 charging poles since it came to power. This compares to 2,000 charging poles over eight years with the Alliance. But electrification of transport is not just about infrastructure, but it is very much about which vehicles will be driven on our streets in the future. Then bonus – malus is absolutely central. I'll say a few words about how to develop bonus- malus in the future. I totally agree with those who say it's too hatty. The changes that have taken place have come close. If I could decide, we would have a clear plan up to 2025 where we will make several changes gradually so that there will be a long-term perspective on the market. First of all, the malus will need to be further increased. There is no doubt about that. Otherwise, ordinary people need to pay for the funding. That is unacceptable. The system shall be self-financing. In short, we need to raise the malus. We also need to screw the malus. It needs to be smarter in its design. This means that the thirsty and large cars sold in Djursholm and the like need to take an extra charge. If you are now going to buy an SUV that you should drive around with without any reason, you should also pay extra for yourself. That money can be used for bonuses. The bonus is good, but it will need to be narrowed, just as the Liberals have been on. We need clearer climate control towards zero. Then we need to gradually narrow it down in order to reduce expenditure. We need to make demands on the hybrids. If we are to keep the hybrids in the system, they must also deliver climate benefits. Then it is not sustainable with a small electric motor and a large internal combustion engine that involves large emissions. We should make demands that every hybrid sold should be able to go on electricity and other renewable fuels. Otherwise, they should not receive any bonus. These were some changes. There are a number of other things that you can do to speed up the changes further in the transition and make the system even more efficient. I will round off there and call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-533	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is true, as Mr Lorentz said, that there has been dissatisfaction in this House. But it was not complaints, it was ruthless criticism, not only on the part of the Moderates, but also on the part of the cooperation parties. There is so much reason for criticism of this reprehensible proposal that I do not know how my four minutes for reply should be enough. But I'm going to start with that thing that Lorentz Tovatt referred to as, uh, big and thirsty suvar. There's no such thing anymore. All new cars sold have very efficient engines and very good performance. When you talk about malus for large cars, you hit disabled people – people who depend on their permobils to get to the store or wherever they want. They can't fit in a small car. You're taxing these people. The same applies to entrepreneurs. There is no alternative to the light trucks that the electrician, the sheet metal maker and the plumber need. You also punish them so that Swedish jobs are lost. Is this a suggestion to be proud of? Not to mention the bonuses that have been paid – 400 million have only gone to Norway in 2019 because we have sponsored the Norwegian climate change transition. I think that the climate threat is global and should be combated globally, but I do not think that Swedish taxpayers should be responsible for Norway's transition.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-538	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the post! First of all, I will only correct Boriana Åberg in two respects. She's totally wrong about big, thirsty cars. The trend among Malus cars has been the opposite of what Boriana Åberg says: The trend in fossil cars is that they become heavier and therefore thirsty. Sweden is distinguished by having very large and thirsty cars, which unfortunately has to do with the fact that we in Sweden have a car industry that has been lagging behind in its transformation; this applies, among other things, to Volvo. So it is exactly the opposite of what Boriana Åberg says. As far as exports are concerned, let me be clear: we are against such exports. If Boriana Åberg had been genuinely animated by that question, she would have looked at her own politics. The super-environmental car premium, which was actually the only climate proposal for the alliance project, was a disaster in this respect. Most cars sold were sent directly to Norway. But we are absolutely going to fix this. When I have Boriana Åberg up here, I must take the opportunity to ask the questions I raised in my speech. Why is Boriana Åberg pushing for ordinary taxpayers to pay the bonuses? Why is it the taxpayers who should pay for Borianas's possible friends in Djursholm to buy large, thirsty suvars? Why are taxpayers all over the country paying for it? Why aren't the Malus payers supposed to do it? Why do you want an underfunded system? And why does one want to slow down the transition, which will mean that those living in rural areas will have other types of cars to choose from in the future and thus much higher costs of getting to work and buying fuel for their car? Why does Boriana Åberg want to do this?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-541	Mr President, I would like to Bagdad-Bob-Bob could not have expressed himself more wrongly. If Lorentz Tovatt had listened to my speech, he could have understood what I mean. I have not mentioned either Djursholm or anything else that taxpayers should sponsor. On the contrary – I am always, in all the speeches and in everything I do, very concerned about taxpayers' money. Recently, Peter Eriksson made a statement about the moralizing party, the Green Party, which really supported rural inhabitants. He says that they have learned from this and are now not blaming people who drive a car in the countryside but are trying to portray themselves as a friend of the countryside. Nothing could have sounded more false. For, Lorentz Tovatt, those electric cars that you price and that have many good qualities require charging infrastructure. If you look at the Moderates' budget, you will see that the Moderates invest more than the government in charging infrastructure. Charging infrastructure requires access to electricity, which the Green Party has consistently opposed since, to quote Lorentz Tovatt, You have indeed taken power over the electricity supply in the country, and that has led to a shortage of electricity, both for companies that want to expand and for people who want to heat their houses. You've really ruined the whole country.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-545	Mr President, I would like to The problem with Bagdad-Bob-Bob was that he was both lying and being wrong. At least one of those things fits very well into Boriana Åberg. I just have to go through this so that Boriana Åberg understands the system. The changes we make in bonuses – malus aims to make the system self-financing. We'll narrow the bonus and raise the malus. Boriana Åberg is against both those changes. This means that the system will be heavily underfunded, probably with billions in the course of a year. This means that it is ordinary taxpayers who will pay for the thirsty hybrid swabs now sold in Danderyd. That is the consequence of Moderate politics, and that is what you cannot get away from. Boriana Åberg is free to operate a completely different line, but her party has chosen a line that means that it is ordinary taxpayers who will subsidise thirsty cars to any Moderates in Djursholm when buying a car. This is the consequence. Then something about guilt. I don't blame you. Everyone gets to drive exactly as much as they want. I don't have any valuation at all. What I want is for them to have an alternative. I want them to be able to buy more sustainable cars in the future. It is another consequence of the Moderates' proposal: they will not have that option in the future. The consequence of the Moderates' proposal is that we get fewer electric cars in the secondary market, which means that ordinary people will not be able to afford such cars. Instead, they will have to buy a fossil car, which is ten times more expensive in operation than an electric car. These are costs that ordinary people will have to hack into if Moderate policies go through. These are facts; that is not something I stand and make up. I'm right, and Boriana Åberg is wrong. It's as simple as that.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-551	Mr President, I would like to I always find it exciting to listen to Mr Lorentz Tovatt in the debate and, in all humility, I note that there are two former Presidents of the Christian Democratic Youth League from the 1990s in this House right now. We were both active in the environmental debate in the 1990s and ran the line of tax exchange. BONUS – malus is a variant of tax exchange, and as I said in my speech, we are in principle in favour of it. But there are things in the model we have right now that we perceive as problems and that we would like the majority to take with them in their thoughts. We believe, right or wrong, that some choose to go via the hybrid car and then go to the electric car. With these new changes, we are deteriorating too hybrid – I think we agree – and we are improving in some sense for electricity. As we see it, this risks hindering this chain that we both wish to achieve. Another issue we are struggling with concerns the light trucks. The system now puts them in a position where they are in some sense considered heavy and expensive, but compared to other trucks they are actually light and should be subsidised. So it is a question of whether they are in the right class. This is an issue that we have raised in our motion. Then there are the campers, which is a real problem. Of course, a camper is heavy, but it runs almost no miles at all. There we in Sweden are tax-wise at a completely unique level compared to the rest of Europe. Of course, one might think that a camper is just touristic and not utility-based and so on, but this being able to have a vacation also has to do with people's being. These things need to be looked at, Mr President.
i-6fcjDAGz4zqFUQqxCYNF3K	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the post and for some wise points of view! I'll try to reason a little on every aspect of this. First of all, let me say that the hybrids are part of the transition. They will also be in the next few years. In the statistics from last year we see quite clearly that both hybrids and pure electric cars have increased strongly but that the hybrids have increased a lot more. When you make changes to the technology in the market, you need to be careful and keep up with it all the time. My picture is that the hybrids have been important, but they are often quite heavy and thirsty in their internal combustion engine. In parallel, we know that electric cars have fallen sharply in prices in recent years, and the major premieres this year are pure electric cars. Market development has thus gone quite much faster than most of us thought. We can now move from having the weight of hybrids to shifting the weight down to zero, that is, pure electric cars. I think that's quite possible. Several of the new electric cars that are opening now are also completely good price on. Of course, they are still expensive cars, but they have fallen quite heavily in price so that more can demand them. Let me briefly say something about light trucks. I have heard that there are a lot of points of view on this. I can only say that technology development is taking place here too. In 2020 and 2019 the share of light trucks doubled in new car sales. It's still from pretty low levels, so it's not a huge increase overall. But here too we can see that during the year there will be big premieres on light trucks that are electric and hybrid. I therefore believe that we will see positive technological developments in this area as well.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-559	Mr President, I would like to I am very well aware of several of the launches that are taking place at the moment. Me and my wife have sold a Toyota Landcruiser ourselves and are now thinking of buying a clean electric car. The major problem that has already been raised by many here is the problem of charging bars, although it is a little side by side. It is about the feeling of distance and the question of whether we can be sure that there is electricity when we need it – the whole discussion about charging poles, transmission capacity and how we create a secure electricity system. This is a problem that I think is going to grow, especially after this winter. On this particular issue, as I see it, we agree that we want a different mix. But when my wife and I have looked at this, the infrastructure around us has been one of our brakes, blocks and frustrations. Let me come back to another point I raised in my speech. Norway, for example, has been extremely successful, and the proportion of electrified vehicles has increased sharply, and so you notice that taxes do not come in. After all, the tax system is based on paying a kind of mileage tax, although it is paid by pump. One who drives a lot pays for many kilometers, while one who drives a little pays less. We also need to look at this. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have tried on several occasions to highlight this. We have already dealt with it in two or three motions. It's not just bonuses – the malus you need to look at, so that the mix ends up right – we unfortunately feel that it's going wrong now – but you also need to have an infrastructure, you need electricity, and you need to have a future fairer taxation. We are not happy with what the government is delivering right now.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-564	Mr President, I would like to There were many different parts of this. But I can say that I share some of Magnus Jacobsson's views and concerns. The expansion of the charging infrastructure is taking place very quickly. It has accelerated in recent years. The latest figures are that we have built just under 40,000 charging points via the Climate Scene. However, that data has not been updated in a year, so I would tip that it is soon at 50 000 charging points. So this is about to happen. We have a special assignment to Trafikverket about building charging infrastructure on white spots. Climate change money does not always go to areas where the shortage is greatest, but it goes more broadly, but there is a special mission here to look at white spots, where the market itself cannot solve the expansion of charging infrastructure. Nevertheless, I hope that the infrastructure will catch up, as the fleet changes in a more sustainable direction. You can talk about the tax system for a long time. Magnus Jacobsson and I have had a debate on this before. I share some of the concerns and concerns that exist and that have been expressed by quite a number of stakeholders – researchers, the industry and so on – regarding the need to have some kind of holistic approach to taxation in the field of transport. We may need to focus more from just a distance. I like that Magnus Jacobsson suggests that we start with the heavy traffic. Unfortunately, his party and other parties stopped this during the last parliamentary term. We wanted to move forward with exactly such a system, which would also aim to have distance-based taxes in order to cover the foreign hauliers who drive, usually with bad vehicles, and toil on our roads. So it's a good start.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-569	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday we saw in an article that electric car sales are slowing down. It was minus 8 per cent in January, and it probably will be even more in February. One of the reasons is probably the change in the preferential value of business cars. Another reason is the twitchiness of the government's vehicle policy, which, according to the same article, enjoyed a very low level of confidence. BONUS – the Malus system is a system that aims to reduce emissions from the transport sector. After all, the government wants you to ride an electric car, as it is they who have the highest premiums. Mr Tovatt spoke about the Suvarna in Djursholm. But what about the prices of these cars? I was with a retailer of Swedish-made cars the other week. His cheapest electric car charged a price of SEK 709,000. The cheapest variant of the same model was a petrol-driven one. It cost $25,000. The electric car was therefore more than two and a half times more expensive. The idea of the new bonus – the Malus system is that anyone who buys the electric car for SEK 709 000 will receive a tax subsidy of SEK 70 000 while those who cannot afford an electric car or can not have an electric car may buy the cheaper car and see the tax on it increase by 38 percent and over three years pay an annual tax of more than SEK 8 500. Thus, it is a penalty tax of more than SEK 25 000, divided into three years. I would like to hear how Jens Tovatt views bonus – the Malus system from a distribution point of view. We are subsidising expensive, luxurious electric cars while at the same time taxing not only new SUVs but also the cheapest cars.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-574	Mr President, I would like to This is obviously a nectarotic evidence. Eric Westroth refers to a car dealer. Then he has not kept up with the price development of rechargeable vehicles and electric cars in recent years. There will be premieres after the premiere of cars that are significantly cheaper. So it's a rather strange description of reality that Eric Westroth does. Then there is a strange reasoning. If you think something is too expensive, should you make it even more expensive? That is the consequence of the policy of the Swedish Democrats. Should we delay the conversion? Shouldn't we stimulate climate-smart technology just because it's expensive? The consequence is that there will be no change. Now I believe that it is a conscious election from the Swedish Democrats. There have been a number of climate-denial statements all these years. One might calculate with that risk: that there is simply no conversion. Let me also comment on the second aspect: the distribution policy. That is what I raised in my speech. The policy of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats leads to ordinary people taking the fall of politics. The consequence, if you do what the Swedish Democrats want, is that ordinary people will be there in three years, when the cars come out on the secondary market. When the leasing period is over and the cars come out on the secondary market, it is ordinary people who get to buy these cars, which are a little cheaper when they are used. Then they will have a ten times higher fuel cost. That's the consequence. Ordinary people therefore need to pay ten times more to get to work than if we can now stimulate sustainable cars that are not powered by fossil fuels.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-578	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I thought a Swedish-made car was a relevant comparison. Of course, there are cheaper cars, but the relative price difference is there. Now Bil Sweden says that the price difference between a rechargeable car and a fossil-powered car will be evened out in 2025. However, another issue that has been raised here concerns a craftsman who needs to have a transport car in his professional practice. Maybe the craftsman has an ordinary public bus. Handicraft cars are worn quite hard, and when the craftsman needs to replace his vehicle with a new one, the craftsman has no bonus option but is largely referred to fossil-powered vehicles. Thus, after a vehicle change, the craftsman will receive a tax increase of just over SEK 4 000 and an annual tax of around 20 000. It is quite a few hours that a craftsman has to invoice only to earn the vehicle tax on his new car. The EU has decided, as I said earlier, on the possibility for Member States to increase the total weight of electric light goods vehicles to 4,250 kg instead of 3,500 in order to have a little load in the car in addition to the battery. This possibility, as I said, has been stuck somewhere in Swedish legislation. Therefore, these vehicles do not yet exist in Sweden. I know that MP may not have much to say for small businessmen. However, before raising the penalty tax on vehicles where there is no equivalent bonus option, I would like to ask Mr Tovatt whether he thinks it would have been better to wait for such legislation until the total weight of electric light-duty trucks was increased.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-583	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eric Westroth, for the line shift! Technology development can be viewed in different ways. You can see it as something static, like things are just the way they are and then suddenly it pops up new technology. This is usually not the way it is done, but it is usually required that demands are made in different ways. It introduces taxes. It then drives a market to develop a new technology and to make it cheaper. That is the way it is usually done, and that is in fact exactly the way it is done at the moment also in the automotive fleet and also in light trucks. As I said in a previous replica shift, the proportion of rechargeable light trucks has first doubled in 2019, since doubled again in 2020. It is likely to double this year as well. Several major premieres on the market are for rechargeable light trucks. Much of this is because we have policies to steer in this direction, on the one hand, European policies and, on the other, bonuses – malus. Then I note that I did not receive an answer from Mr Westroth to my reasoning. Nevertheless, I think it is worth remembering that what we are doing on the Swedish automotive market today has consequences for those who buy cars on the secondary market in three years' time. Here the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats owe the answer. Why should we stimulate a fleet of vehicles that is thirsty? Why should we stimulate a fleet of vehicles that means that those who have little money in their wallets, those who live in rural areas, those who depend on their car and those who have a long way to work will be allowed to buy cars that are thirsty and therefore much more expensive to operate? It is, again, ten times more expensive to drive a fossil car from home to work than to drive an electric car. That is what I think a lot boils down to, in terms of climate, but also in terms of distribution policy: that we must help those who really need it.
i-FsTwJLkh94fzPb3SD2i5mt	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 13 on social security contributions. Mr President, I would like to We both support our reservations, but in order to reduce voting time, I only ask for reservation 3. Pensions in Sweden have been far too low for a long time, and many of our pensioners live below the poverty line. Pensioners today receive shamefully little of their salary, and the pension for those who have worked and worked their whole lives is shamefully low. To patch and repair a broken pension system, the government has developed the pension supplement. We have not opposed it because we welcome every extra crown for pensioners. However, we have repeatedly pointed out that this solution is not sustainable in the long term. The disappointment has also been great when the government gave the impression that the pension supplement would mean an extra SEK 600 when it actually includes SEK 25 extra for those with the lowest income – it might be enough for about two litres of milk. For example, today an average 80-talist, born in 1985, who entered the labour market at the age of 25 and who works until the age of 67 with a final salary of 30 000 SEK per month, receives an income pension of only 13 600 SEK. This represents only 45% of the final salary, which is far from the target of 80%. We do not think that is acceptable. We believe that there must be a so-called distance of respect and that it should make a difference to the pension if a person has worked his whole life compared to if the person has not done so. We have therefore long been asking for and proposing that the government investigate and produce a proposal that strengthens pension provision while at the same time changing this with a lower general wage contribution in employers' contributions. This would make it possible to achieve higher pensions while avoiding higher taxes on entrepreneurs. In this way, too, the retirement age would not need to be constantly increased. Not everyone has the same conditions. Those who have worked hard in hard-working occupations are much less able to work well up in their ages than those with more academic professions. Of course, we do not want to prevent those who are able to work further up the age bracket. But the Social Democrats may have lost touch with the reality on the working floor and the hard toil there. Last year the Social Democrats rejected and voted down our proposal in the Riksdag to investigate the possibility of strengthening pension provision. All the other parties also intend today to vote against this motion. The report now states that work is under way within the Pensions Group on the level of contributions and pension provision. It is positive that the government and more parties are finally starting to look at this, but it is very unclear what it actually means and what it is the Pensions Group really wants. You don't hear much in public about what's being talked about there. In recent days, Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi has stated that it would be possible to carry out a review to strengthen pension provision. In my opinion, however, it is quite a double standard and inconsistency to go out in the media and claim to be in favour of such a proposal and to be in favour of it while voting down a proposal to investigate this very thing in Parliament. If the Pensions Group now believes that a proposal in a similar direction should be examined, the committee should in any case be able to give partial approval to the proposal – the Pensions Group plus SD is, of course, a very clear majority in the committee. Mr President, I would like to Social security contributions concern a wide range of areas. I will now turn to talking about a completely different but also very important subject, namely Swedish outdoor life. Sweden has a rich and extensive outdoor life. Millions of Swedes are members of one of the outdoor organisations that exist throughout the country. The Swedish nature is used by many through sports, tourism and recreation. Sport has a strong relationship with public health and is today a larger sector with more resources than outdoor life. On the other hand, both are important in public health work. An example of an initiative in the area is the half-bare amount rule of the Social Security Act, which for example the Swedish Sports Federation is covered by. Compensation to sportsmen and women from non-profit associations for the purpose of promoting sporting activities is free of charge under the Social Security Fees Act if the compensation during the year has not been half a price base amount. Which, on the other hand, are not covered by the Swedish Friluftsliv. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that the text of the law states that it should be a matter for sportsmen and sportsmen to be able to apply the rule. Sports affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation are the ones that may primarily be involved, but also similar activities such as outdoor activities with sports orientations. A major problem arises here as to how to interpret this justification. One will have to define on a case-by-case basis what counts as sport and what counts as other interests. This is an issue that the Swedish Democrats have raised for several years, and it is remarkable that no measures have been taken to address the problem. In addition, the ongoing pandemic has hit the outdoor industry hard. More and more people have sought out into nature, which is positive, as it is a good complement to long-distance vacations or sports activities indoors. At the same time, Swedish Friluftsliv's sub-organisations have been unable to meet the increased pressure and without the resources to support those organizations that have risked bankruptcy. In addition, Mr President, the sports movement has so far received a total of just over SEK 1.8 billion in aid during the pandemic. That's good. But outdoor life has, hear and astound, not been given a single crown in support. In conclusion, the debate continues to follow the same lines. The sports movement is valued higher than the outdoor movement, which is a problem in public health work. We therefore propose in our reservation that outdoor life should be subject to the same conditions as organisations linked to the Swedish Sports Federation with a half-price base amount. The government should also, in general, strengthen support for outdoor life, especially in these pandemic times.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-606	Mr President, I would like to We have, thankfully, in Sweden a number of different organisations and associations that contribute in different ways to increased well-being among the population as a whole. Of course, encouraging this is vital. We Christian Democrats therefore have a reservation in this matter of social security contributions to broaden the reduction in social security contributions, and I therefore support reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to For many years I have had the privilege of being a leader in a variety of associations. Not least, I have devoted much of my free time in recent decades to teaching children to play the noble sport bandy and football. The compensation for these certainly thousands of hours has not been income, but the knowledge that I have helped to create meaningful leisure time. It has undoubtedly been a tax-free privilege to see these children take on new skills in the sport they love, see how to solve tasks, compromise and cooperate and how to understand not only to set goals but also to use a strategy and discipline to achieve the goals. Although I have mainly been active in the sports movement, I have partly as a priest and parishioner, partly through our three sons seen how other organisations and associations are also there in civil society and create a fantastic added value not only among children and young people but also among adults. It is something that benefits and is of value to us as a whole. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that there are very good reasons to extend the current exemption for sports associations to other associations and organisations that exist in civil society. Therefore, in our budget option, we have also set aside funds to make this a reality. I know that this rule that exists for sports clubs is important. For almost five years, I was chairing Örebro SK Bandy, and I saw how important the rule that we did not have to pay employers' contributions, given that the compensation was below half a price base amount. Although Örebro SK Bandy, like many other clubs in Sweden, is largely carried by voluntary contributions, it is a fact that people must be able to get some kind of compensation for all the efforts and time required to carry a club, association or organisation. We think that the rule that exists is very positive; we just want us to broaden it to other associations and organisations that are not members of the Swedish Sports Federation. Mr President, I would like to In civil society, associations and organisations create meeting places, not least for our children and young people. The value of access to activities, meeting places and meaningful leisure time can be overestimated. The Christian Democrats believe that we should examine in different ways how we can enable these associations and organisations to carry out their important work, and then, of course, taxes and fees play an important role. This applies both to the ability to carry out what the association and the organisation wants and ultimately also to be able to hold down membership and participation fees. We therefore call for our reservation to be approved, which means that the Riksdag will decide on an investigation that will be tasked with reviewing how a widening of the exemption in relation to social security contributions may apply to more than just sports associations.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-615	Mr President, I would like to As previous speakers have pointed out, we are now debating a motion report on social security contributions. I shall begin by saying that I am pleased that there are so few reservations in the report and not from so many parties. The reason I am saying this is not that it would be good that people and parties do not reserve, but rather that this is a very important area, namely that we charge social security contributions and social security contributions to fund and fund our welfare systems. It is therefore gratifying that there are not a lot of reservations with a lot of demands for a reduction in social security contributions. For me, this testifies to the fact that the system of social security contributions and the fact that we are financing both our health insurance and pension provision by doing so have strong support. I'm glad. There are, of course, times when social security contributions could be reduced to stimulate different types of behaviour. We see that sometimes we can do so when it comes to young people's establishment in the labour market. We have reductions when it comes to research and development, areas that are important not least when we hopefully soon after the pandemic will restart our economy and stimulate companies to get back on track. These are two examples of when there may be reason to make adjustments in relation to social security contributions. Otherwise, the basic principle is important for us, namely that social security contributions should be paid in order for us to maintain our important security systems. We should be able to maintain and perhaps even improve health insurance, and we should be able to finance our pensions. Therefore, we Social Democrats are generally very sceptical about reductions because they also reduce the possibility of financing the important areas of society. Mr President, I would like to In today's report there are a few reservations which I would like to comment briefly. The first two reservations concern the exemption available to sportsmen for income of up to half a price base amount, i.e. for 2021 up to SEK 23 800 per year. That derogation shall include more. The majority of the committee rejects the proposals. The justification is, among other things, that it is fundamentally reasonable that there should be a link between social security systems and social security contributions, i.e. that there is a reasonableness to pay social security contributions. That is why we do not think that the exceptions should be widened, although it is of course difficult to draw boundaries. Another argument is that it is sportsmen, whether they belong to the National Sports Federation or not, who can benefit from the exemption. It is probably a good order that it is authorities and legal practitioners who judge who is a sportsman or not, not that we in the Riksdag organisation for organisation decide who should be exempted from the requirement to pay social security contributions. The third reservation in the report concerns pensions. The reservation is about the proposal to increase the provision for pensions and thus increase them. There is much to say on this issue. First of all, we Social Democrats are making the same assessment, namely that pensions need to be increased and that this should be done by increasing contributions and provisions to the pension system. But other measures also need to be taken, and this has happened since we took office in 2014. In several steps, the penalty taxation that existed for pensioners, introduced by the bourgeois government in previous periods of government, has been gradually abolished. The final step has already been decided. We have increased the guarantee pensions so that they have a slightly better financial situation with the lowest margins. We have increased the housing supplement, which can mean a substantial supplement for pensioners with low pensions but with higher rental costs. We have introduced a completely new pension supplement which will enter into force in September of this year. That pension supplement has been important to us Social Democrats. It was one of our most important electoral promises that people who have worked their whole lives with relatively low incomes would have a pension increase of SEK 600 a month. That is why it is a little dishonest to hear the Swedish democrats in the pulpit say that this promise has not been fulfilled. The Swedish Democrats say that no one receives SEK 600 more a month. That's not true. We have decided on such an increase and it will enter into force in September of this year. A great deal in these groups will get an increase of 600 kroner a month, just as we have decided. It is a very dishonest rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats to pretend otherwise. Then there is another part of this, namely to maintain the distance of respect between people who have worked an entire working life and earned their pension and those who have not worked. Sometimes I get the impression that the Swedish Democrats want that distance of respect to disappear, that is, that a person who has not worked should have as much as a person who has worked. It would have been devastating for the pension system. In addition to all the measures that have been implemented, we also want to take responsibility for ensuring that future pensioners receive even higher pensions. Then it is important that the reservation is about, namely that we should review the contributions to the pension system. This review is part of the pension agreement, which was concluded between the parties behind the pension agreement. It is part of the mission that we should carry out such an analysis. Then I understand that the Swedish Democrats are anxious that their proposals should be approved, but in this House we usually do so that for those proposals where work is already under way there is no reason to make new announcements to the government. We feel confident that this work is progressing in the Pensions Group. Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for the proposal in the committee's report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-628	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Larsson for the speech and some clarifications. I would like to make it clear that in my speech I did not say that no one has received SEK 600. On the other hand, I believe that some statements have sometimes been received such as that everyone should receive SEK 600, and that was a disappointment for those with the lowest pension who received only SEK 25. I have read the budget, and I know that there are those who receive 600 kroner. Then there was the question of the distance of respect. It is true that we wanted to strengthen the guarantee pension, but during the previous Parliamentary Session we have talked about strengthening pension provision in order to be able to receive a higher pension when you have worked your whole life in order for there to be a distance of respect. It is not at all true that we would like to remove it. We tabled a proposal last year, and the Social Democrats and other parties voted against it. Now we have a proposal today to set up an investigation. If the honourable Member Larsson makes the same assessment as the Swedish Democrats, and the entire Pensions Group is willing to look at such an issue, it should be possible to reach the lowest possible denominator and send an announcement to the government. I hope that it is still the Riksdag that is our highest decision-making body and can send assignments to the government also on the pension issue. Or is it only the Pensions Group that owns the pension issues? If so, it may not be entirely democratic when not all parties are in the Pensions Group. We still need to be able to have an open debate in Parliament, and we still need to be able to send announcements to the government. Why do the Social Democrats today choose to vote against proposing that the government set up an investigation to strengthen pension provision? It is urgent and necessary, and it should have been done a long time ago. The Social Democrats have soon had two mandates to implement this.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-632	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Julia for the clarification of the SEK 600. I sat earlier today listening to Question Time, and I got the same impression from Julia Kronlid's question that it was disappointing to have promised $600. It's a little bit a way to spread a different image than the true one. I think we should consider whether this is really an honest way of doing politics. I am pleased that Julia Kronlid is now saying that the proposal that we have put forward and that comes into force in September means that many of the pensioners who are badly off receive SEK 600 a month. That was our ambition with the proposal, and we are implementing it now. At least in the line shift, Julia Kronlid admits it. The distance from respect is important, but this does not mean that we do not also think that all the groups should have an increase. But if you had done what the Swedish Democrats wanted in their budgets and first raised the guarantee pensions and then did not include the pension supplement, that distance of respect would have shrunk. Then we would now have been in a situation where the distance of respect had shrunk and it would have been worse and worse to have worked for their pension. We Social Democrats think it is good that more parties can agree that we should increase the contributions to pension provision in order to increase pensions. The reason why we do not support this reservation is, as I said in my speech, a logical and natural explanation, namely that Parliament does not have to give mandates to the government that the government already has.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-636	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but if it has been mentioned in the Pensions Group for a period of strengthening pension provision, why has the government not been able to achieve this before? The government has also been aware that the Swedish Democrats have also pushed and been in favour of this proposal. The Social Democrats have now been in power for almost two terms of office and have been most aware of the low pensions we have. Now the government has come forward with this pension supplement. I did not say at Question Time that no one has received 600 kroner. I said that the government gave the impression that everyone would receive 600 kroner, but those with the lowest pension still receive only 25 kroner. It's a fact. Of course, every extra crown for pensioners is welcome, but there are many referrals that have pointed out that this was not the most long-term solution. It has emerged that the most long-term solution would be to strengthen pension provision. But now there is not much time left for the next elections, and the Social Democrats and the Pensions Group have still not been able to achieve a real strengthening of pension provision. It's still at the call level, as I understand it, and it's not quite clear what it's going to land in. I welcome the fact that we agree somewhere that pension provision should be strengthened, and I look forward to seeing what the result is. This is a very important issue. It looks very different what pensioners are getting today, but the fact that there are those who still receive around 45% of their final salary is unacceptable. I hope we can agree on that. I still find it sad that we could not agree on an announcement for the government to conduct such an investigation seriously.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-641	Mr President, I would like to I hear a slightly changed tone, and I welcome that. I hear that Julia Kronlid may think that the government basically has a good policy but that it is going a little too slow. Of course you can always wish it went faster. I can also wish that – that we had achieved the goal of more reforms at a faster pace. However, it should be borne in mind that, on the basis of the pension agreement that has been concluded, we have increased the guarantee pension, and we have increased the ceiling in the housing supplement. We have now introduced a pension supplement. We are overcoming the shortcomings of the premium pension system. We have abolished the pensioner's tax or at least decided on the last step so that it will soon be adopted. These are very many important measures for the country's pensioners. Of course, I think we should have taken even more measures even more quickly. But we have an agreement, and it is important because it creates a fairly large majority in Parliament to actually make sure that pensions are raised. The fees are included as part of it. It is part of the discussion in the Pensions Group. I hope that this discussion will take place as quickly as possible and will arrive at the best possible decision, but I would like to note that a great deal has been done to strengthen pensions. More needs to be done.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-644	Mr President, I would like to Social security contributions, what we are debating today, are contributions levied through employers' contributions to fund our social security systems: health insurance, parental insurance and pension. These are important parts of our well-being. It is largely government responsibility for welfare that is financed in this way. Much of the welfare responsibility is otherwise at the municipal and county council level – or the regions, as we say now. It's about together taking care of ourselves and each other when we need extra support – when we get sick, when we form a family and the costs increase, or when we get older and no longer pay. These are situations or periods of life when income decreases but the bills continue to have to be paid. Social security contributions finance that security, welfare, which has built and shaped Sweden. It is important that we ensure this funding but also the trust of these systems. Social security contributions must be levied – through employers – according to their ability, and there must be a clear link between the contributions and the security paid by the contributions. Among the motions dealt with in the report we are debating today, we find mainly proposals to deviate from that principle. These are reduced social security contributions, exemptions from paying contributions, deductions or differentiated contributions. These are proposals that stimulate important societal aspects but at the same time risk undermining funding or confidence in joint responsibility. These are target conflicts which, of course, must be dealt with, but at this point we in the Green Party do not believe that there is any reason to approve any of the proposals in this area that have been made during the general period of exercise. I therefore call for all motions to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to When we talk about trust, there is still reason to mention welfare. When we see that many elderly people go with very low pensions and that sick people are denied health insurance or are insured, we must act – for those who are affected, and severely affected, but also to restore confidence in welfare. In the Pensions Group we have an agreement where we will review the whole system to raise pensions in the long term and ensure that pensions are more equal. Together in the Pensions Group, we have strengthened the basic protection for those with the lowest pension during their term of office. We have increased the replacement levels of the guarantee pension and the ceiling of the housing supplement. We have also decided on income pension allowances for those in the next group, those with slightly higher incomes. They will receive up to $600 a month from this autumn, in September, when this takes effect. The next step will be to review social security contributions and contributions to old-age pensions. Mr President, I would like to As regards the sick, especially those who are ill for long periods, the government has now taken an important first step towards repairing the rifts of health insurance. Next week, I think it is, the Parliament in this House will decide on changes in the assessment of working capacity after day 180 of health insurance. This will help to ensure that more people are allowed to keep their sickness benefit and that they can be rehabilitated back to freshness, improved quality of life and the possibility of re-entering work, studies or other employment. That decision will not be enough, but it is an important first step. More measures need to be taken, and the government intends to come back with more proposals from those who have been investigated and referred. This is to recreate, you might say, the safety of health insurance. This is how we build a strong well-being, a strong society: through joint actions financed jointly, in solidarity, through social security contributions. I support the proposal.
i-3vRcPDJ7k7V2P2sPMh5qiv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Berglund, for your speech. When I listened to Mats Berglund, I thought a little bit, partly about what Rikard Larsson said earlier about the assignment to review pension provisions has been around for a long time and partly about what Mats Berglund put forward. The pension supplement has been looked at, and only now will the government and the Pensions Group begin to look at the pension provisions. Why wait so long? It is not news, of course, that we have extremely low pensions, that you get extremely little out of your salary and that we are far from the target figure of 80%. Why first come forward with a temporary proposal with the pension supplement and then start looking at the pension provisions? Why haven't the government and the Pensions Group dealt with this much before? You've had two terms of office. The Swedish Democrats made a proposal to set up a study to strengthen pension provision even last year. Then the Green Party and the Social Democrats voted against it. Why? And why must there necessarily be a vote against this today if we nevertheless agree that we should strengthen pension provision? The Pension Group, the Swedish Democrats and – I am quite convinced – the Left Party wants to strengthen pension provision. Then can you at least answer the motion or partly approve it? Obviously this has not been going on for long, but it is only now that you should start looking at it. At least then we should be able to express our support for what appears in our motion and in our reservation. Why has it been so long before the government and the Pensions Group have actually begun to look at strengthening pension provision, which is so extremely important?
i-naQWyjpAzpq9miCdL79oJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! I agree that we need to have this discussion. Perhaps I also agree with the previous speaker, Rikard Larsson, that it seems that we have a similar view with regard to contributions to the pension system. We understand, however, that the Swedish Democrats believe that the government is going a little too slow. I can agree that it is frustrating in politics when things are slow, but that is often the case. I'm going to say that the Green Party wasn't in the Pensions Group from the beginning, but now the Green Party is in. This is, of course, a group that has been formed precisely because we need broad agreements on this important issue. Now I'm in the Pensions Group, and I have great respect for it. We need to negotiate. It needs some time to come up with proposals. That's it. One can of course have views that things are going too slowly, but as far as payments are concerned, there are prepared thoughts, ideas and texts to get started on this. I hope that we in the Pensions Group will soon be able to present something regarding contributions to the pension system. It is important to work in several ways in raising pensions. I will also say that, unfortunately, contributions to the pension system are not something that will have an effect very soon, as the pension supplement did after all. It had a direct effect, although I understand that the Swedish Democrats believe that this effect was in part a little too low.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-665	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have not opposed or voted down the pension supplement, because we welcome every extra penny. But the addition to those with the lowest pension we consider has been too low. It is positive that this debate on strengthening pension provision is emerging. We've been asking for it for a long time, so that's good. I hope and assume that there will actually be an investigation by the government that is open and public and that we can follow, that there will be press conferences and presentations and that we can all – not just those in the Pensions Group – follow these developments. After all, they want broad agreements, but Sweden's third largest party is not in this group. Even the population and pensioners – PRO – are probably very interested in following developments in this and not just getting a pre-packaged proposal. They may want to be able to get some interim reports or other, as it usually is when the state appoints various forms of public investigation. I look forward with excitement to these reports. I have another question, on a completely different subject: Swedish Outdoor Life. Why is it that the government does not want to give the same relief in terms of the half price base amount for Swedish Friluftsliv that they give to the sports movement? We are now in the midst of a pandemic that has hit the sports movement hard, and it is great that we support the sports movement. But it is also more difficult to do indoor sports and travel abroad. A lot of people want to take advantage of our nature. A lot of people want to take advantage of what Svenskt Friluftsliv is responsible for. This has hit them hard, and their economy is on its knees. They would need more financial support from the government, just as the government has supported the Swedish sports movement during the pandemic. They would also need the relief of half the price base amount. Why does the government not treat the Swedish Outdoor Life in the same way as the other Swedish sports movement?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-671	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for both questions. I'll start with the first, about transparency in the Pensions Group. I will not precede the process of increasing payments and how this can be done. As far as the premium pension scheme is concerned, however, we have very recently landed in an agreement. The agreement was preceded by an investigation, which Julia Kronlid is also calling for in this area. I fully agree with Julia Kronlid on the importance of transparency in political processes, but, of course, discussions in review panels must also be allowed to take place in peace so that they are not disturbed and so that we land in a good way in a consensus agreement. This is, after all, the whole basis for the Pensions Group, as well as for many other review panels in which the Swedish Democrats are also present. When it comes to the issue of outdoor life, we may think that there is a strange discrepancy between Swedish Outdoors and other associations, especially sports associations. As I said in my speech, we want the link between contributions and social security and social security to be as strong as possible. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the Green Party has run outdoor issues very strongly, and we have a very green budget for 2021 where we have investments in outdoor life, nature, nature reserve, sea and water, wetlands and many other things related to outdoor life.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-675	Mr President, I would like to Swedish citizenship is the most valuable Sweden can give to someone who has immigrated to Sweden or to those who are born in Sweden and whose one parent is a Swedish citizen. Citizenship symbolised by the passport is not only about rights but also about duty and obligations between state and citizen. Once Swedish citizenship has been granted to a citizen, it cannot be withdrawn under current legislation. There must be a constitutional change and a change in ordinary law in order for this to be possible; at present it is not possible. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we want to see that, in certain cases, citizenship can be revoked, for example if it is granted through incorrect information – through a so-called acquisition – or in the event of a crime against the state. What does it mean to become a Swedish citizen? You get access to the world's second most attractive passport, after a German passport. It says a lot about Sweden as a country. It says a lot about how our surrounding world views Sweden as a nation and that the outside world has confidence in Sweden's citizens. That is why we must safeguard Swedish citizenship. In order to become a Swedish citizen, you must have confirmed your identity, be over 18 years old, have a permanent residence permit and, in general, have had a legal right of residence in Sweden for at least five years. We in the Moderates want to change this. We want to extend the residence requirement from five to seven years. We want to impose requirements on self-sufficiency, that is to say that we do not live off financial aid. The reason for this is that we can look back on the great immigration we have had and still have in Sweden, where integration has failed. An additional requirement for becoming a Swedish citizen is to know the Swedish language. Today we have no requirement to know the Swedish language. There are those who do not want to introduce such a requirement. On the contrary, we think it should be an incentive. If you have chosen to come to Sweden and become a part of Swedish society – it can be through work, through marriage or because you have come to Sweden for protection – you should know the Swedish language. We also want the requirement for language skills to exist at an earlier stage in order to be granted a permanent residence permit. But to become a Swedish citizen you should know even more Swedish. What does it mean when you become a Swedish citizen? Yes, you get the right to vote to this House. You can participate in the parliamentary elections. However, it is not only possible to vote in the Swedish Parliamentary elections. You also get the opportunity to stand as a candidate for the Swedish parliament and in turn become a representative of the Swedish people. Rights, duties and obligations go hand in hand. In order to safeguard one's rights and understand the value of one's rights, one must also fulfil one's obligations, otherwise it will not go hand in hand. Mr President, I would like to We have a challenge and a problem in Sweden with parents who want to take their children abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. In order to circumvent the fact that the Swedish State is involved in such a matter, it is often used to free its minors from their Swedish citizenship. If a child has been released from his or her Swedish citizenship, Sweden has no opportunity or right to get involved in the matter or bring home a child who has been subjected to a terrible crime. Therefore, in each individual case where a parent requests exemption of Swedish citizenship for his or her child, we want the Moderates to be examined by a Swedish court, so that one can find out what is the reason why the child should be released from his or her Swedish citizenship. Mr President, I would like to Today I have highlighted that there should be a requirement for self-sufficiency and a requirement for one to know the Swedish language. We want to extend the residence requirement from five to seven years. You're supposed to have lived a decent and honest life. You shouldn't have committed a crime. This goes hand in hand with the fact that if you do your duty, you will have your right. If you are an immigrant to Sweden, for whatever reason, and have a legal right of residence and fulfil your obligations by knowing the Swedish language, and if you have self-sufficiency and live a decent life, then you should have the opportunity to become a part of Swedish society. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 5.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-687	Mr President, I would like to In order for voting not to be so long, I choose to vote in favour only of reservation 2, but we naturally support all our reservations. Mr President, I would like to Those who are citizens of Sweden should also be part of Sweden and see Sweden as their home country. It is a fundamental part of the construction of Swedish society. Applying for admission to Swedish citizens is an important document. It is not something that you do routinely, like refilling the SL card or perhaps paying your electricity bill. It is an application that should be based on feeling a relationship with Swedish society, that you want the relationship confirmed, that there should be consent and reciprocity, that it is a relationship that should flourish for many years between Sweden and the individual who has chosen to become Swedish. To be admitted to a citizen is a formal confirmation that Sweden is the applicant's new, permanent home country with all the rights and obligations that it entails, in need and in desire. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that this view of citizenship contributes to more cohesion and a greater community of society, because the goal must be to minimise the gaps between native and immigrant Swedes, and this is an important step along the way. Raising the requirements for citizenship may mean that fewer people can become citizens, because it will require more will, more work, more commitment and perhaps even higher levels of ambition than today. But, Mr President, citizenship is not something to be found at the bottom of a cereal package. By raising the requirements for becoming a citizen, the reward will be greater and the feeling stronger once the new citizen gets citizenship in his hand. Citizenship is supposed to be something worth working for, something worth waiting for. At the same time, it reduces the risk that people who have come to Sweden only to enjoy social benefits or who cannot stay within the law will become citizens. Let us be clear about what applies, Mr President. There is no obvious right to become a Swedish citizen. Sweden always has the freedom to decide who will have the honour of becoming a Swedish citizen and who will be denied. Sweden decides which criteria should be met. It is Sweden that decides on the requirements to be made. At present, there is not even an opportunity to withdraw a citizenship, which means that we need to be even more secure in our case before we distribute a citizenship. Mr President, I would like to What are the reasonable requirements for achieving the mutual, fruitful relationship between Sweden and new citizens? In short, there are five demands. You should have had a longer stay in the country, ten years for extra Nordic citizens and four years for Nordics. You should meet sharper requirements, i.e. that you should have had an honest way of life during the time in Sweden. You should not have committed crimes, you should have paid your bills and you should not have links to gang crime or similar antisocialism. Language requirements at level B2 should also be met according to European terminology. This corresponds in principle to the approved level in grade 9, and it feels quite reasonable for someone who wants to make Sweden their permanent home. General requirements must be imposed on livelihoods, unless it is manifestly unreasonable, for example, for children or persons with different types of disabilities. Finally, there must be demands on social education. One should be able to assimilate basic knowledge of how Swedish society works. Important examples here could be how Swedish democracy works, equality and equality, freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, how secular society works and how it interacts with religious freedom. Mr President, I would like to This doesn't sound so hard. Study Swedish, learn how society works, get a job, stay out of trouble! Then you have every chance to get together with Sweden for real, a marriage that hopefully lasts forever. This view of citizenship is in no way unique in the world, nor historically in Sweden. As long as citizenship has been regulated by law, it has been subject to requirements and strict rules. The time you should have lived in Sweden to become a citizen has varied. It was for a long time between seven and ten years. Strict routine and supply requirements were for a long time obvious. Only in the somewhat flurryy 1970s were the requirements reduced to the cereal package level with the good aim of facilitating integration. But, Mr President, when both the volumes and the composition of migration changed in the 21st century, it turned out in practice how naive that hope was. Instead of integration, we had widespread segregation with alienation, division, and what can almost be likened to ethnic enclaves in some parts of some cities. I could list the area by area where integration, to say the least, has not worked, but, Mr President, I believe that all Members of this House, deep down, are well aware of which. When a good idea does not work in practice, other solutions must be found. Part of such a solution is to look at what has worked historically and on the basis of it. As far as citizenship is concerned, this means that we need to raise the status of citizenship again, and this can be done through five simple steps: longer stay, higher language requirements, better knowledge of Swedish society, stricter vandalism and re-emerging supply requirements. These are five simple points.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-701	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats want citizenship to be valued and believe that it is necessary to set clear requirements for obtaining citizenship. Citizenship is a goal, not a means. We have a reservation and, of course, I am in favour of it. Let me emphasise that it is fundamentally positive when a person applies for Swedish citizenship. It is an expression that she or he sees Sweden as his new and permanent home country. This aspect of belonging is also very well expressed in the portal clause that exists for citizenship. In addition to this somewhat more symbolic significance, there is, of course, a more real one. Swedish citizenship gives the right to vote in parliamentary elections. You can also apply for positions in the police, court and military. It also gives an unconditional right to reside in the country and to receive consular assistance abroad if problems arise. Both this symbolic and real importance of citizenship means that we have every reason to enhance citizenship. Mr President, I would like to Citizenship gives far-reaching rights. It is therefore reasonable for us to discuss the conditions for acquiring one. A look at other EU Member States shows that in most countries citizenship is only possible if you can support yourself without financial support from society. Half of the Member States also have some form of testing. The applicant may have a certain level of language skills and knowledge of the country's society, culture and history. Some countries also require some form of commitment that expresses loyalty and an ambition to integrate into the country in which they want to become citizens. In addition to the requirements that already exist – that one can prove one's identity, must be at least 18 years old, have a permanent residence permit and have and can be expected to have an honest way of life – we Christian Democrats want to see language and social studies tests. In the Migration Policy Committee, several parties have worked hard to ensure that we have language and social studies tests already at the time of the issue of a permanent residence permit. It is well founded that those who have knowledge of the Swedish language will be able to integrate better. I think we all agree in this House that integration has not worked in the way we think it should. Knowledge in Swedish is one way to facilitate the opportunity to enter society, assimilate education, get a job and support yourself. This is all connected. We therefore want a language requirement already for permanent residence permits and then another language requirement for citizenship. The same applies to social studies. Mr President, I would like to We believe that those who learn Swedish and also understand our Swedish society and the values that build our society will have easier to live with and not next to the majority population. It was therefore gratifying that, in connection with the presentation of the interim report by the Swedish Citizenship and other citizenship issues, there were proposals for requirements for knowledge of Swedish and social sciences in order to acquire Swedish citizenship in January this year. Mr President, I would like to I have now explained how we Christian Democrats see that we can value citizenship, and there is certainly more that can and should be done. Let me conclude my speech by asking a rather simple rhetorical question: how can we enhance Swedish citizenship if the issue of this citizenship is not carried out in a legally secure manner? It has come to my attention that something is missing. A few weeks ago, therefore, I wrote in a written question to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson about what had been revealed to me: that administrators at the Migration Agency's review units as well as other operational staff such as decision-makers, team leaders and assistants are not security vetted. This means that an administrator who, for example, has to assess whether an applicant can pose a risk to national security is not himself a security-tested person and can therefore constitute a security risk. In other words, a person who is not a Swedish citizen can issue Swedish citizenship. This is in every way an entirely unreasonable order. It may and may very possibly have already resulted in people being denied citizenship by an administrator with, for example, other religious affiliation or clandestineness. These are claims that have been circulating for some time, and in the absence of a security clearance, it is impossible to dismiss these claims. This becomes even more troubling given that last autumn it came to our attention through the police that criminal clans infiltrated both Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. If we are to enhance citizenship, which I think we should, we should also enhance the issue of citizenship by security testing all those who work at the Migration Agency. An administrator at the Migration Agency with the authority to test citizenship, for example, sits on a fantastic power over another person's life and has access to very sensitive information. Therefore, we should never ever have to doubt the rule of law.
i-8gVNEqLAw9A7yRCCJav2Hn	Mr President, I would like to I support the Social Security Committee's proposal in its report SfU14 Citizenship and rejection of all reservations. Citizenship issues are regulated by the Swedish Citizenship Act, and according to it Swedish citizenship is a legal relationship between the citizen and the state that entails both rights and obligations for both parties. Citizenship unites all citizens and stands for belonging to Sweden. Citizenship represents the formal membership of Swedish society and is a basis for the Swedish National Board. Nowadays it is mandatory for municipalities once a year to organise ceremonies for new Swedish citizens to celebrate their new citizenship and see the importance of it. The welcome is voluntary for the individual and may be designed according to the different conditions and conditions of the municipalities. A condition for nationality is that the applicant has demonstrated his/her identity. Dispenses can be granted in exceptional cases for persons who cannot prove their identity if they are resident in Sweden and are likely to make the identity declared correct. Knowledge of the applicant's identity is a fundamental condition for the decision-making authority to be able to assess satisfactorily whether the conditions are met. This is extremely important. Regarding requirements for knowledge of the Swedish language and about Swedish society, which several have raised in the debate, the Government gave a special investigator in October 2019 the task of preparing proposals to pass tests in Swedish and in basic social sciences as requirements for Swedish citizenship. The investigator's proposal was now submitted in January in the sub-report "Requirements for knowledge of Swedish citizenship and social sciences". It is reasonable to demand knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society in order to obtain Swedish citizenship. It provides a better balance between rights and obligations. It also increases the opportunities to enter Swedish society. Then language is a key to working life and society in general. It also provides basic knowledge and greater opportunities to influence democratic work and to integrate more easily into society. It is also important to make demands and to compare and see how things look in other countries and what requirements have been made there. The issue of introducing a supply requirement for citizenship has been discussed and raised in several motions. A living condition was contained in previous citizenship legislation, but it was removed in 1976, among other things because the group of people who received social assistance was comparatively small and there was an acceptable reason in the group that applied for citizenship. For the low number who could not make a living, the reason was lack of education or vocational training. Today's citizenship legislation requires an honest way of life in order to obtain citizenship, something that has also been highlighted here in the past. The question of the extent to which offences committed by an applicant are disqualifying depends on the time and nature of the offence. Repeated crime that has not ended at least a few years before the application date is considered not to comply with the law. When the 2001 law was introduced, the concept of honest conduct was replaced – it is now being discussed again if it is to be called so – by the expression. The preparatory work shows that the former concept of honest conduct was considered out of time but that it was not intended to change the substance. Mr President, I would like to Several of the issues raised in this debate are issues that have been discussed by the Migration Committee and which recur in the drafting of the new Aliens Act. The special investigator I mentioned earlier has investigated the issue of approved tests in Swedish and social sciences and will by 1 July 2021 make proposals on how children's rights should be better protected in matters relating to exemption from Swedish citizenship, how the child perspective can be strengthened and the possibility of rejecting an application for exemption from Swedish citizenship should be extended. I would like to stress the importance of making proposals that strengthen the child's rights as soon as possible. No child should be able to be taken abroad to be married against his will. It is extremely important from a child's perspective that a proposal should come quickly.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-732	Mr President, I would like to I have a brief question for Mrs Carina Ohlsson. I think we agree that administrators at the Migration Agency who have the authority to examine issues such as citizenship are sitting on a tremendous power over other people's lives. As I mentioned in my speech, this means that an administrator can therefore assess whether, for example, an applicant poses a danger to national security without having been screened and without even having to have Swedish citizenship. My brief question to Carina Ohlsson is: do the honourable Member and the Social Democrats think that this is reasonable, or do Carina Ohlsson and the Social Democrats think that this needs to be changed?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-734	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to raise this issue. Both me and Hans Eklind sit in the Migration Board's Transparency Council, and this is an issue that I have raised there. I think we should take this discussion. As I understand it, and as Mr Eklind said in his speech, the question is addressed to the Minister for Migration. I'm gonna follow it up. I do not wish to comment here on how the authority deals with matters, but I intend to follow up on the matter.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-736	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for a somewhat evasive answer, which I may well call it. The question was now addressed to the representative of the Social Democracy in the Riksdag, not to the Finnish Immigration Service's Transparency Council, nor to the Minister for Migration. The thing is that the Migration Agency in its investigation, which has a couple of years on its neck, has established and itself concluded that there is no law or regulation that gives the Migration Agency the right in general to impose requirements on Swedish citizenship for employment. The investigation was presented two years ago. As far as I know, we now have the same Minister of Migration as we had two years ago, and nothing has happened. My question, however, is: Do you, Carina Ohlsson and the Social Democrats feel that this is something that we must somehow remedy? Because I cannot get this order together, which I hope is unique, where we have non-Swedish citizens who can make one-man decisions as to who will be allowed to stay or become citizens of this country. My question to Carina Ohlsson remains: Does Carina Ohlsson think that this is an urgent issue that we must quickly correct so that we can ensure that the people who work at the Migration Agency receive some form of security clearance in connection with their employment?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-740	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous speech, Hans Eklind, I have also taken up this issue. That is the answer I want to give you now. I don't want to stand by and evaluate government agencies now. However, one answer is that I have taken up the question and followed it. That is the answer I am giving today. Mr Eklind and I will certainly come back to this issue.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-742	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Social Democrats have approached us Swedish democrats on the issue of citizenship requirements. In 2000, it was precisely the Social Democrats who were the first in line to abolish language requirements, because they felt that they were unfair and that they were administratively difficult. But it is in any case nice that the Member Ohlsson and the Social Democrats join us and welcome the proposals from the Investigation on language and social literacy requirements for Swedish citizenship and other issues of citizenship, as it is called. Language is a key, says Mr Ohlsson in his speech. As far as the levels of language requirements and exceptions to language requirements are concerned, we in the Swedish Democrats have a lot of questions. The rib is very low. Level A2 in speech and writing basically corresponds to a 12-year-old's language level in English, or a teenager's language level that has studied modern languages for two three years with mediocre grades. These requirements are, to say the least, not very far-reaching. At the same time, one should also be able to be exempted from these minimal requirements if, for example, one comes to Sweden as illiterate. My question is: Does Mr Ohlsson think that this is enough to be able to participate fully in Swedish society and in the democratic dialogue on the same terms as everyone else? Is this a reasonable level?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-747	Madam President, I would like It's good that I can please Jonas Andersson. As I said, a key to being able to participate actively in society is that you know the language where you live and work. It is about being able to get a job, be able to make a living, be able to participate in studies and so on. When you have followed the research in terms of what requirements you should make for knowledge of the Swedish language, you have seen that if you set too high standards – as some countries have done – it can have an opposite effect for those who have a lower level of education from the beginning. Of course, there is a huge difference if people come here as illiterate or if they have a university degree. Then they have different opportunities to assimilate knowledge. But it is important that people are put at the right level and that they continue to support themselves in order to create opportunities for education and further training. I hope that Jonas Andersson will also look at this, which means that opportunities and good conditions are also provided and that we should not only test how well these people know the language. It's important. It is not certain that people are doing the best they can in society just because they are doing a test. There are many other things that are also needed, such as lifelong learning, in order to participate in cultural, outdoor and other activities. A sample alone will not make it any better for the vast majority. But it can be a way to make it clear that language is an important prerequisite.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-750	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ohlsson, for your answer. I think we fully agree that only one test would not solve all the problems. That's obvious. I also note that it sounds like Mr Ohlsson is open to reviewing these demands and that they should perhaps be somewhat stricter as well. The honourable Member is welcome to contradict me if she wishes. When it comes to the Social Democrats, I thought I'd back up the band a little bit. Already in the 1950s, Prime Minister Tage Erlander argued that applicants' knowledge of the Swedish language should be given great importance. In the proposal which the Social Democrats seem to support today, it is therefore sufficient that those who want to become Swedish citizens can function in very short social conversations but generally do not understand enough to keep the conversation alive themselves, or that you can write short and simple messages and keep simple notes in the area of immediate needs. To take an example of this, it can in principle be sufficient that you can accept an order for a fast food chain and write down the order for a post-it note. In that case, sufficient requirements for knowledge of the Swedish language have been met. Does Mr Ohlsson really mean that these skills live up to the vision of Tage Erlander in the 1950s?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-757	Madam President, I would like When it comes to how Tage Erlander expressed himself in the 1950s, I still think he was a very good social democrat and stood for a good view of knowledge. From the 1950s we have really developed the education system in Sweden, and it should be possible for everyone to be part of it. It is also about those born in another country. And I mean that a test is not enough, but we have to work all the time to make it possible for a good language development so that you can get a job and get into the labour market. I, who work a lot on gender issues, also know that gender equality is an important aspect to include here. It is both women and men, girls and boys who should receive relevant education and also be able to participate in education. It can be a good prerequisite that the education is made compulsory both when it comes to knowledge of Swedish and social sciences in order to promote gender equality and enable both women and men to support themselves. It is clear that it is not enough to be able to write a short message on a post-it note without having to be able to express yourself more. That is why it is so important to invest in education, in cultural life and in everyone's opportunities to participate in them.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-760	Madam President, I would like We Liberals are basically people who could be called cosmopolitans. We are people who like it when people travel around the world – when someone is born in one place, studying in another country, maybe in Sweden, get a job, fall in love with someone and change places of residence. We think that people should be allowed to choose how they want to live their own lives. We liberals believe that society at large in the world but also here in Sweden becomes stronger when people mix with people from different backgrounds, with different experiences, with different ambitions and drive our Sweden and our society forward together. From some parties it may sometimes sound a bit like this debate is about who is Swedish or not. It doesn't. The discussion of citizenship is about the social contract, i.e. the contract that regulates what the state has obligations and rights towards the individual's obligations and rights – who is included in the social contract, and what it means to be included in the social contract. This is what citizenship is all about – choosing to be part of our social contract. It is actually a legal relationship between the state and the individual. It is for these reasons and against this background that we Liberals have always been in favour, and will continue to be, of an inclusive and open approach to citizenship. But it is also an approach to citizenship in which we believe demands should be made. We liberals believe that you should be able to live in Sweden – live, be in love, get married, have a family, work and do other things and contribute – even without citizenship. But if you get a citizenship-- if you actively seek and want a citizenship-- that's supposed to mean something. It is, of course, about being able to participate fully in democracy and so on, but it is also about being able to make demands. That is why we Liberals, through the January Agreement, have actually received and are getting through a lot of changes. It is about language requirements and social orientation, that is to say, you should simply understand what kind of contract you are entering into – what it means to be part of our social contract and what your obligations and rights are. It's really pretty undramatic. Another thing that this debate is about and which is very important is that it has been far too easy for parents of children with dual citizenship to take away their Swedish citizenship so that they lose their rights. In the social contract, we, as citizens and, of course, as politicians, have an extra responsibility to protect children, and sometimes children may actually need to be protected from their parents as well. It is for this reason that it should not be possible to take away a child from a citizenship because the child has a different citizenship – perhaps because the parents want to take the child out of the country and do things against or with the child that we do not agree to in our Swedish social contract. Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the gains the Liberals have made and that we have achieved with the January agreement: language requirements, social orientation and further protection of children's rights. This is how we build a strong citizenship for the future.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-768	Madam President, I would like Liberals protect the public service media. Their function is important in society. Sweden has and must have a public service broadcasting activity characterised by independence, impartiality and objectivity. This requires that the activities are independent of the state as well as economic, political and other interests in society. Public service should continue to have a broad mission and strive for quality and relevance regardless of genre. Madam President, I would like The media play an important role in society: they will inform, they will review and they will contribute to debate. This also makes them central to democracy. Sometimes they function as something of a campfire in the country, something that people can gather around, but they are also important to the individual. We can gain knowledge, insights and ability to make independent decisions and think about who we want to be – and we can participate in democracy. There is reason to work around how we have broad media in this society. Not least in a time of bubbles and algorithms, one has to think about how we get broad media that can create a reasonably common reality picture. I'm saying reasonably common reality picture, because we also need different perspectives, different approaches and different stories. However, we need a decent common image in order to have a reasonable conversation. Different media are thus both competitors and complementary to each other, and that is a good thing. This must be seen as a media ecology in which the media both help and live off each other, but also contribute to and compete with each other. This diversity is central, because it means that we get a breadth in both the review and the knowledge that comes to us – and also in the debate. I would like to say that I think there are signs that this ecology and the climate of cooperation between different media are working better. It should be competition and cooperation, but it seems that one has now also found a common model for how to give kredd to each other, telling others who was first with a news story and so on. That's good. It is central and important that the media help each other but also that they strengthen the whole in the way that they give each other credit. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has affected the media situation in many different ways. Many media have met increased demand; people turn to them and want knowledge and information. They want quick updates, but they also want secure updates. At the same time, the business model of the press has in many ways been challenged by a sharp decline in advertising revenues. I must say that I am proud that the Liberals and the Center Party, together with the government, have been able to provide urgent support to the press during this period when it has been very tough. I believe that we must be prepared to continue to look at the way in which pre-aid and such things are to be designed. During the pandemic, we also see a continued high – and even stronger – confidence in public service media. I think that's very important. The SOM Institute has carried out a special survey during the pandemic which shows that there is strong support and trust in the public service media, and I think we should protect that. Even in those groups that traditionally have lower confidence, there has been strong confidence in public service during the pandemic. I hope that we will continue to do so, because trust in the media is very important – just as trust in society is very important – for democracy to work. Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio have played a little different roles in this crisis – in the pandemic. The education radio, which is often obscured in the general debate, has taken a huge responsibility when Swedish schools have had to change and digitise themselves in a way that it was not prepared for. I think we should mention this in this debate. It has been important for many – for parents, teachers and students, but also for Sweden as a whole. Madam President, I would like In countries where authoritarian governments take power, one of the first steps is often to try to strengthen the grip on the media. Public service media, with their mission to the public, are particularly vulnerable and particularly vulnerable to this, and there are, unfortunately, quite worrying trends around the world that demonstrate the idea of authoritarian regimes trying to take control of the media. We also see it quite close to our own country. Can this also happen in Sweden? I don't know. I don't want to believe it and hope it isn't, but I really don't dare be naive and say it can't happen. In an interview just a while ago, one of the members of the Administrative Foundation opened up to SVT, SR and UR so that individual journalists could be punished for bias. It would thus violate the old model we have in Sweden, and a journalist who violated bias could be punished by being fired or fined. It is something completely new, and it is a step in the wrong direction. It is a step that we know where it leads, and we should not take those steps in Sweden. At the same time, we see that there are threats to editorials and that there is hatred against journalists. Whether the threats are political or non-political and wherever they originate, we must take them very seriously. There is therefore a need for strong guarantees that the independence of public service media will not be eroded, Madam President. I think it is a pity that the 2018 Committee on Freedom of Expression and the Press was unable to achieve strengthened constitutional protection. We would have liked to have seen it, but because there was no broad support, there was no agreement on changes in this area. However, there are other things you can do. The three public service broadcasters have, of course, a management foundation, and several steps have already been taken to increase the arm's length distance between politicians and public service media. It has become the case that we have removed members of parliament from boards, for example, and further steps should be taken along that path. For example, those who are employed in a parliamentary party or a parliamentary office should not be able to be a member of the board of directors. Anyone who sits in the European Parliament or works for an MEP should not be able to be a member of the board of directors either. Consideration should also be given to how to protect the Commission. It is unreasonable for it to be largely regulated in a regulation whereby a minority government can quite simply – with only one stroke – change all the conditions: kick those who sit there and, in practice, appoint only faithful members of the government, in addition to the lawyers who are there. All of this is completely unreasonable, and therefore the regulation must largely be passed on to law so that a minority government needs at least support in the Riksdag for such changes. We write about this in the Liberals' motion, and I hope that we will eventually get support for the idea. I think that quite a lot of people in this House think that what we are proposing is quite reasonable. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for reservation 3 on the independence of the Administrative Foundation.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-782	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, the reform of public broadcasting. Public services, radio and television, have reached a new level in the debate in recent years. I think I see and hear an intensification in the social debate and commitment to the issue. There are more people debating public services today than before, and this is a welcome debate. The foundation stone of public services is to convey public news, and we can read in SVT's broadcasting license the following: ..................................................... During the year, it has become clear that large parts of both radio and television tablets have had to be converted for daily press conferences from the Swedish Public Health Agency and for the government's extra press conferences. SVT, SR and UR have played an important role in conveying new recommendations and in understanding what a pandemic is and have also tried to enlighten us, the population of the country, about the consequences we can expect, both before and after the coronavirus. They have helped to understand current events linked to the pandemic, and we now know, for example, what the country's state epidemiologist is called. This is a foundation stone and a typical example of an important public service mission. But we have also been able to dig into Open Archive and see about classic films and/ or the World Cup finals in football from 1994, when we would be digging gold in the United States. It wasn't gold, but it was still good memories. One should have opinions about the media climate. It is both useful and important, not least if we want a high-quality one. We must be allowed to question, but above all discuss, the media landscape. Public service plays an important role. They have a particularly important mission to ensure that significant information reaches out to the entire population in crisis situations – just such a situation that we experienced throughout last year and still find ourselves in. That is why they have a special position and requirements, unlike the other media. Madam President, I would like On the basis of their social-conservative approach, the Swedish Democrats believe that it is of the utmost importance that there is a media player who creates quality content in the Swedish language and who has the task of reflecting our entire country and ensuring that the content is accessible to all citizens, regardless of the physical conditions of individual citizens. Madam President, I would like Many people feel that in recent years the public service companies have failed in their mission to provide factual information and impartial content. We believe that some of the country's current challenges could have been alleviated and avoided if citizens were fully aware and understood of the consequences of certain policy proposals. There is talk of an opinion corridor throughout the media sphere – an opinion corridor which, unfortunately, has remained within the public service. The reform we describe in our committee motion would start with a new, larger investigation that would construct a new, more modern public service system, with strong built-in mechanisms that, as far as possible, form the basis for an impartial media player. We need to review the public service budget by merging the companies so that we have a public service operator and not, as today, three. If we look out in Europe, we see that this is normal in this context – a public service company. Future reform should move towards a narrower and sharper public service. This is, we believe, a necessity to face a modern media market in the future. In short, we need a system that is resource efficient and that people have a high level of confidence in.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-793	Madam President, I would like I really only have one point of view and one question. This with a narrower public service mission, how does it go with the basic idea of the Swedish Democrats that people in Sweden should experience about the same things, take part of about the same things, think about the same things and have about the same knowledge? This is like the very foundation of the value building you want to create in the Social Conservative Dream of the Swedish Democrats. Then why should you have a narrow public service? Isn't it smarter to have a broad public service that everyone is watching, so that everyone can enjoy the same thing? That is my first question and thought. My second question and reasoning is: Do the Swedish Democrats think that a journalist should decide for himself what angle you choose in a report, and do the Swedish Democrats think that an editor of a news editor should be allowed to decide which mix you have on tonight's news?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-795	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the questions! To start with the first about what a sharper public service is, it is for me a public service where we can increase the quality but still keep a breadth. We believe that it will still be about films and Swedish drama series of high quality. I think Christer Nylander misunderstands us when he thinks of a sharper public service. A sharper public service can still be broad. On his second question, if journalists are to write what they want without being controlled, the answer is yes. It is a matter of course if we are to have free media in our society.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-798	Madam President, I would like I asked the question because Angelika Bengtsson said in his speech that information about certain political proposals was not done properly and that some angles were not accepted in public service media and that one should have some advisory board that determines which issues should be addressed. This is also available in the exercise: that there should be a Nordic unit that should decide about which policy mix should be included in the content of Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio. If you have it, it will be very difficult to imagine that a news editor will at the same time be allowed to decide that in today's News it is these things that are most important. It is also very difficult to imagine that a journalist should get hold of a material and say: This angle I want to choose. It may not be in line with your idea that this should be marked by all the political proposals being given the angle that you want or that you think is missing today and that all the political proposals that you think should be examined should be examined in a special way. If the journalist and the editor are to have freedom at the same time, it will be very difficult to get your opinions together and your politics together. I don't quite understand. Either one or the other must be wrong. With regard to my second question on the breadth, I understand that what you mean is a broad public service that captures many and becomes a campfire for all and where the mission is not narrower. Is that understood correctly? You want a broad mission that captures many and has confidence among many – how do you want to achieve this?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-801	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer all the questions. There were a lot of them, and I only have two minutes. I'll do my best! When it comes to the Nordic countries, it is about exchanging experiences. We can see that we share a lot of culturally with the Nordic countries. We share the view of a society. These are our closest neighbours. I think we can have a better media landscape if we exchange experiences with each other. For example, migration has been reported in different ways. If we had been more honest and reported on the real costs of migration, I think we would have seen a completely different debate – a debate that we have seen in Denmark, Norway and Finland, which I think we have a lot to learn from. Another topical issue is energy policy, where reporting has been relatively monotonous lately. There we have much more to learn about how to report – the exchange of experiences, in other words. Christer Nylander returns to the journalist's freedom. That is a matter of course for us. I can't stress it enough. It is precisely how to report on migration policy or energy policy that is about exchanging experiences with each other. It is not a question of political guidelines that you have to write in a certain way about a matter of substance. It is about exchanging experiences, seeing how one has reported on a particular area in our Nordic neighbours and learning from each other. I believe it. We have more to learn from each other.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-807	Madam President, I would like The media are sometimes described as the third state power. Public service is an important part of the Swedish media, not least in terms of impartial news coverage and communication of public information. For the sake of Swedish democracy, the mission and focus of public services should be precisely on this, and I therefore call for the Christian Democrats' reservation, which is intended to safeguard this. We could indeed call public service television and public broadcasting. Here it is Sweden's Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio that have that mission, and they have received it from us elected by the people up to 2025. Something we have seen for some time and that I think fills most of us with some concern is that the media presence outside the big cities continues to be tough. It's falling. To meet these developments, we Christian Democrats have said that we see a value in public service strengthening its regional news coverage. We believe that public services should focus on social information and independence, factual news communication both nationally and internationally and also regionally. Here we have used the expression It is to describe the mission that we believe should be the focus of public service. The expression is that there is already something there and that it can be enough and that you can leave it to others to do it. We simply believe that public services should give priority to regional news coverage, which costs money, rather than large entertainment productions. As far as the latter is concerned, there are already a number of properly sent commercial operators who can do so. In addition to providing us with a comprehensive and impartial news service, public service has a special mission to meet the specific needs of certain target groups. It can be about children and young people, people with disabilities and minority language groups. Then, during the pandemic, we have seen that public service has an extremely important mission to convey social information, a social information that has in all probability helped save lives. Despite the fact that we have lost a great many lives during the pandemic, the information has nevertheless been useful in reducing the spread of infection. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that today it is too small a proportion of the public service broadcasters' total broadcasts, which consist of national, regional and international news and public information. We see that very large parts of the television tableaus are occupied by what we call entertainment programs. We do not think that is a reasonable priority. It is my firm belief that a narrowing of the mandate, as it is called, will also strengthen the legitimacy of public services over time, and that hopefully also makes it possible to reduce the public service tax.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-814	Madam President, I would like I have today finished Stig Hadenius' book The Fight for the Monopoly, which is about Sweden's radio and television and during the 20th century. It is a social narrative book that describes how radio technology and later television enable information to the general public and perhaps mainly how the so-called media ideology develops, i.e. principles for how Sweden's radio and television should handle commercial, economic and political special interests. An event that takes place during this time exemplifies how the relationship with the government, the parties of the Riksdag and the authorities is becoming increasingly sensitive with increased reviews and new programmes. At a meeting that took place in December 1967 between Swedish Radio's management and representatives of the then government, a longer discussion arises. First, it is about technology development and distribution possibilities, but quite soon the conversation turns into complaints about the content of the programmes. The culmination of the meeting was reached when the then Minister of Finance Gunnar Sträng characterized a popular entertainment series such as But the then Minister of Finance was answered by the radio director Olof Rydbeck. It is said that Sträng had been completely astounded and, for unusual reasons, silenced by the counterreproach that it was for the Swedish people, and not for Sträng, that the programs were made. The so-called media ideology that is emerging here is about what Swedish radio and television should do and what principles they should relate to. This is formulated for the first time in the 1960s, when it is stated that the activities should be at the service of society and in the interest of society keep citizens well informed without being part of the government, government or opposition. Madam President, I would like It has been 54 years since the conversation between Gunnar Sträng and the radio director Olof Rydbeck. Since then, the tasks of the public service broadcasters have also been clarified. The companies will offer a range of programs that are accessible to all, that reflect the whole country and are characterized by good quality, comprehensiveness and relevance regardless of genre. An essential condition for maintaining integrity and editorial independence is that the activities are conducted independently of commercial, economic and political interests. The importance of independence is included in all investigations and proposals, all the way back to the 1960 radio investigation. The 2018 Parliamentary Public Service Committee landed in exactly the same conclusion. There are, of course, countries that fund public services in other ways and have other types of content assignments than just broadcasting permits, but few can match the purity of our Swedish system, where funds go directly from the public to the public service companies. This, if any, speaks for both independence and independence in the mission. Madam President, I would like The Riksdag has made a lot of decisions during this parliamentary term in the light of the conclusions of the 2018 Public Service Committee. The system of television licences has been phased out in favour of a public service fee, and the broadcasting license period for 2020 – 2025 represents a great deal of new assignments. The companies now have a duty to strengthen journalistic surveillance in weakly guarded areas. They shall take into account the competitive conditions of commercial news media. They will expand first broadcasts in the national minority languages, extend core activities to their own online platforms and form part of the total defence and thus develop a contingency mission. Madam President, I would like One year into the new broadcasting permit, I can see that the parliamentary inquiry landed quite rightly. The number of people watching traditional television has fallen sharply, undermining the previous TV licensing system. The fact that companies can now be credited with programming activities on the Internet should probably be considered the only reasonable thing. Only during this pandemic year have the news programmes in SVT Play increased by 100 percent. As a result of the ambitions we had with the new broadcasting permit, new local editorial teams are now also opening up. SVT told us in January that they start editorial teams in Fagersta, Flemingsberg, Sveg and Lund. Six more locations will receive SVT coverage within three years. During this year, Swedish Radio has employed about 20 new employees at local P4 channels and strengthened guarding in Västernorrland, Ånge. And temporary editorial teams have been started in Vilhelmina, Arvidsjaur and Strömsund. At the same time, Sameradion has opened in Jokkmokk. Skåne has strengthened guarding in Höör. Investments are now also being made in southern Kronoberg and northern Blekinge. The contribution of the educational radio has been invaluable during this pandemic year. The fact that they quickly realised their role and changed their activities to help teachers and educators meet distance learning has been of tremendous importance. According to a Novus survey from October 2020, 72% of teachers answered yes to the question whether the mission of the UR should include supporting the Swedish school in the event of a social crisis. Madam President, I would like The model of public service regulation and governance has worked well for decades, but developments in several parts of Europe show how unprotected public service activities can be. In several countries, it is today a propaganda machine for the current government. The closest examples we have are the influence of governments on public services in Hungary and Poland. In Sweden, only a temporary majority in the Riksdag is needed to quickly implement radical changes. The protection of the independence of Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio is not always based on regulations but on a practice agreed by the parties in the Riksdag. When such a practice no longer applies, there is no protection against radical changes in the independence and broad nature of the mission. Parliament can actually change the content of the assignment at any time. Parliament can also intervene in the budget that companies have to move around with in order to strangle operations and reduce content. There are therefore good conditions for the party that wants to exert pressure and quickly change the ability of broadcasters to act as independent and reviewing media companies. That, Madam President, is why we Social Democrats have supported constitutional protection. We believe that it is important to implement this. We can also note that it has not been implemented, because of the reservations expressed by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats during the investigation. During this time there have been some proposals that strengthen my conviction about the need for constitutional protection. For example, the Moderates want to abandon commercial and economic independence and introduce advertising funding. How appropriate it would be if UR suddenly started to broadcast advertising in programs like Life in Matteland when it is shown to Sweden's students in the classrooms can only the Moderates themselves answer. And the more the Moderates think they can cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, the more they need to think about how to compromise with their media policy proposals. It is not M's proposal that I am going to ask questions about, because I do not know them yet. But I have some questions for the Swedish Democrats. This report deals with a committee motion from the Swedish Democrats, which proposes to set up a major study on the modernisation of public services. Among other things, the Swedish Democrats want to introduce a Scientific Council that will check the facts and the accuracy of the information and that will review elements and journalists' work. It is a proposal that has been met with sharp criticism from the Swedish Journalist Association. It was mentioned earlier here an example of Linus Bylund, who said less than a year ago that he wants to see more of the personalized reprisal opportunity for the GRS. How do you view that statement? Another proposal made by the Swedish Democrats, which is included in this report, is to introduce a programme of corrections, in which the responsible editor is to be called to account and to account for what has gone wrong in the broadcasts, a form of public shame stake. The Swedish democrats are happy to respond to what proposals this makes with the review of power that public services should nevertheless devote themselves to. Madam President, I would like If we want to promote public service in the future, we will certainly be able to debate the future mission of public services, how Swedish media players will be strong in global competition, how they will cope with digitalisation and what new challenges technology development entails. But I would like to finish this speech where I started. The primary task of public services is to serve society and to keep citizens well informed in the interests of society without being part of the government, government or opposition. This is a matter of course for us Social Democrats. Gunnar Sträng later changed his mind about that. Today, however, we find ourselves in a situation where all the political parties in Sweden need to think about how to promote this very thing. Having said that, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-840	Madam President, I would like I got some questions. I will try to respond to them, but above all explain and clarify what our public service policy actually is. Regarding the so-called Scientific Council – or call it what you want – it is not as controversial as it may seem or as many want it to be. It is basically about transparency. It is a question of what you do afterwards, when something has been examined in the Council. The G.R.D. is not looking at factual errors. If you've been told one thing was white that was black, that's not right. You're looking at the transmission permits. We believe that it increases mistrust of public service when one does not look at what is the actual fault in a program content. That is why we want the Scientific Council to be able, in retrospect, to highlight what was wrong, in fact, if a programme is decided, that is to say. It's about transparency and nothing else. Don't make it seem like it's about something else!
i-a29208f460ec67d3-843	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for a clarification! In their committee motion, the Swedish Democrats themselves have designated this institute as a scientific council. I've only read in that committee motion how to describe it. As I said, I would also like to state that we are talking about reviewing content. The reason why the Swedish Journalist Association has criticised this proposal from the Swedish Democrats is that they are getting closer to censorship. How does Angelika Bengtsson view the Swedish Journalist Association's criticism of this proposal? Has it been misunderstood, as Mrs Angelika here describes it? I do not think it is possible to interpret the committee motion in any other way than what I described in the speech.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-845	Madam President, I would like It is not a question of checking before a programme is broadcast, it is a question of whether something is revealed afterwards. One must be able to correct errors afterwards. That is precisely what this Scientific Council is going to do. The problem with the committee, as it is built today, is – once again – that you only check if someone has violated current broadcasting permits. The credibility of public service is about transparency and that it should be as objective as possible. If it is discovered that something is not factual, we must be able to draw attention to it afterwards via the social body that we present in our exercise. Madam President, I would like There are reports showing that the general public who looks at the public service believes that what is being convicted in the Court of Justice is precisely a matter of factual error. You don't know it's not about that, it's connected to the broadcasting permits. That is what it is all about and nothing else. It's not really controversial. I believe that the concern of the Association of Journalists is the same as that of Lawen Redar, which is that it believes it is a matter of something in advance. It's all wrong. It's not like that. It is about things to be highlighted afterwards, for example scientific errors.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-848	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for the clarification! I would also like to make it clear that the committee is looking at the merits and impartiality of the hearings. It is part of their mission, and precisely in order for the public to have confidence in public service, there needs to be a review of these broadcasters. Every person in this country has the opportunity to make a complaint to the just hearing committee, which is a body of its own under the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority. The Swedish National Audit Office has only two months ago produced a report that looks at how the audit is carried out, i.e. how their work and audits look like around the reports. I have also looked at their conclusions, and the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office are that the Swedish National Audit Board works effectively and lives up to transparency and efficiency. The few shortcomings that have been pointed out relate to processing times, which has been justified by the fact that they have a higher load. It all works very, very well. If this is what Angelika Bengtsson describes, the Swedish National Board for Public Affairs has exactly this mission to look at reports that are about objectivity and impartiality and if broadcasters actually live up to this. If this is what Angelika Bengtsson here describes, then I do not see any reason why the Swedish Democrats deliver such a proposal. What the Swedish Democrats are doing is continually making politics out of discontent, and that is a completely different matter. Citizens may be dissatisfied and report it to the National Board, but making policy on this and proposing radical changes harms the freedom of journalists and the independence of companies. I believe that this is a major problem in the proposal.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-852	Madam President, I would like A diversity of media is a central part of our open society. In democracies, they are the oil in the machinery that disseminates information, that citizens can take a stand, that the exercise of power is reviewed and that influence, responsibility and collective wisdom can be secured. In dictatorships, the media are the tool for keeping citizens in check through uncertainty and ignorance. Increasingly, media opportunities have also been highlighted by dark forces as an effective way of conducting disinformation wars in order to sow splits and divisions and thereby undermine open societies. We must pay attention to this and act vigorously against it. Few industries have experienced such a rapid and dramatic change in their conditions as the media industry in recent decades. Radio and television monopolies have either been abolished politically or have fallen as a result of developments. Digitalisation and internet development have changed media habits and led to new actors and business models, while many of the old struggle to adapt and survive. Madam President, I would like It is in this rapidly changing media logic and landscape that a modern public service needs to navigate and find its basic role. By 2026 at the latest, when a new broadcasting permit period begins, a new reformed public service policy needs to be in place. We Moderates have set up a media policy working group focusing on a narrower and sharper public service, and we will come back with the results of that work. There we take a broader approach to media policy on the basis of promoting diversity. In this regard, we also communicate in our special opinion contained in the report. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to safeguard the unique role of public service in the future, while at the same time seeing that the core of the mission can be strengthened and the requirement of objectivity and impartiality nurtured. During the nearly 100 years of taxpayers financing the production of radio and television – only as a licence-financed monopoly, for 30 years in competition with commercial operators and now financed over the tax bill – the reasons for the need for public service change. In the beginning, it was technical. The frequencies were limited, and the technology behind radio production was considered too expensive and complex to accommodate more players. Then it became a security policy, that is, foreign powers should not be able to disintegrate the Swedish people – a motive as good as anything even today. Many different motivations have been used over the years, such as people's education, cultural policy, regional policy, creating a national kitt and a common and shared campfire, everyone's equal opportunities for relaxation, language care, minority interests, diversity, peoples' education, promoting domestic cultural production and so on. Some of these remain relevant also in the new media landscape. One reason that should be mentioned in particular is that public service is the single most important financier of Swedish production of drama, entertainment and community coverage for radio and television. Although global streaming services are increasingly also purchasing Swedish production, which is of course very positive, the independent film, television and radio production industry would hardly exist unless public service was available as a buyer. Such a development would be detrimental not only to cultural policy but also to economic policy, for then Sweden would lose an industry that has sales of about SEK 5 billion and which is internationally more successful than that resulting from our limited language area. Public service is simply still important in many respects, but reform is needed to maintain legitimacy over time. Madam President, I would like For the current period and in the near future, we Moderates believe that measures must be taken to ensure the currently contested objectivity and impartiality of public services. This is done by developing the mission of the Board of Appeal. Without evaluating individual cases dealt with, it can be noted that the requirement of impartiality and objectivity has raised a great deal of debate. It is a debate that deserves to be taken seriously, not least on the basis of the legitimacy of broadcasters in the public sphere. The activities of the Audit Board must always be transparent and transparent. This means, among other things, that higher demands should be made that the decisions taken by the Board of Appeal should always be justified. There are strong reasons for giving the committee a clearer responsibility for investigation than it has today. This would create better conditions for decisions based on correct facts and relevant circumstances compared to a system based on the notifying party's tasks setting the framework for the review of the GSC. The requirement for a conviction to be made public should also be clarified so that publication is always as clear as the faulty reporting. Against this background, the Government should review and develop the mandate of the Advisory Council to ensure that public services meet the requirements of objectivity and impartiality. This is one of the proposals we Moderates put forward in our media policy exercise, which, however, is not dealt with in this report. Madam President, I would like There are additional public service elements that need to be addressed right now. The Parliament decided soon a year and a half ago, in connection with the latest authorisation decision, to announce to the government that it needs to set up an investigation that reviews the possibilities for a different regime for the preliminary examination of new posts, where the government does not constitute the last instance. However, such an investigation has not yet been presented. Parliament's decision was that the investigation should be filled by the government as soon as possible. It was 2019. Now we write 2021 but still no investigation. It is remarkably slow and unacceptable. Madam President, I would like Freedom of opinion based on independent media is vital to Western liberal democracy. In these rapidly changing times there is a need for reconsideration and reform. Those who stand still in principle and are confident in principle risk contributing to stagnation and, in the long run, also to reduced legitimacy, for example for our Swedish public service.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-867	Madam President, I would like Public service must be politically and commercially independent. All political governance reduces freedom and therefore also credibility. Independence is needed in order for you as a recipient to feel secure in that individual political opinions do not control the content. This should not be confused with the fact that there is a broadcasting permit with a mission, for example that public service should reflect the whole country. However, what programmes are being broadcast and what they contain should not interfere with policy. Madam President, I would like It is not, of course, the power that should review the media, it is the media that should review the power. This is fundamental to democracy. Every time political arguments criticise individual programmes or journalists, credibility is affected. There will be a suspicion of public service. Any desire to restrict public service by political decision also creates a belief that what they are doing today is not independent. It also undermines the credibility of the independent scrutiny of power and society. The fact that Sweden has a wide range of media is important and in many ways crucial for a functioning democracy. Free media is important in a commercial market and public service that is free from both commercial and political influence. That is why we need both commercial media and public services, side by side, for example, for the scrutiny of those in power and for the formation of opinions, where several perspectives have the opportunity to be brought forward. Public service then also needs to have a broad content to be relevant to many. When some political representatives say that they want to narrow public service and remove what some people call it, they miss out on the importance of many being able to find something that is relevant to them in the offer. What is krimkrams for one person can be the highlight of the week for another. It would be very unfortunate to narrow the mission and risk public service becoming a narrow channel for a few. The culture and entertainment that the public service companies produce and convey gives a broad picture of our society, which in turn creates the conditions to strengthen our society together. At the same time, public services also provide opportunities for different groups in our society to share and spread their own history and culture to others. It also offers the opportunity to increase the knowledge and understanding of more people in our society. The broad remit of public services is therefore a prerequisite for continuing to be relevant in our society and in the fast moving media landscape. As a society as a whole, we benefit greatly from e n public service that reflects the whole country, not only geographically but also, among other things, minorities in our country. It provides a wide range of perspectives and an increased understanding of how society works and looks. This breadth also provides recognition and allows more people to find public service in a crisis, for example, as it is particularly important to be able to find a reliable source. Then it is also important that this source is also available to those who have a disability. High demands on public service broadcasters in terms of accessibility are therefore very important. Madam President, I would like During this difficult period, we see the need for a wide range of public service providers with an impartial and reviewing news and information service, while also spreading culture and creating entertainment in their channels. Public service is for many people not only news or pleasure, but it also helps you to feel that you are part of our community. One example of this is how Sweden's Television changed for an older audience who is sitting a lot at home now under the coronapndemin. It's not just about social information, but you can also meet up where you can see that needs arise with inspiration for movement training, for example. The radio is also an important security with a wide range and is easily accessible to take part in. Another example, which has also been mentioned here in the speaker's chair by others before me, is how the Education Radio quickly changed its production to create programs for teachers and students about Corona, distance learning and source criticism. Public service is, we can see, a democratic good and is also financed jointly and severally through the public service fee. Therefore, a payment wall does not meet you, and you do not need to register your personal data in order to be able to access the programmes. No one's being shut out! Madam President, I would like Public service is and should be free and accessible to everyone. To conclude, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the Special Opinion of the Centre Party on motion requests prepared in simplified form.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-877	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Free, independent and independent media are an important cornerstone of the construction of a stable democracy. In Sweden there is a long tradition of freedom of print and expression, and today's media landscape contains a wide variety of private and jointly owned television and radio channels and newspapers – although the concentration of ownership has increased considerably in recent times. We'll be careful of that in the future. It is through the jointly funded companies Sveriges Television, Sveriges Radio och Utbildningsradion, what we call public service, and their broad mission that the population is guaranteed, among other things, impartial social information, news, entertainment and cultural experiences. The fact that both journalism and the whole public service are independent from politics is absolutely fundamental. Madam President, I would like There are still four years left on the six-year broadcasting permit we here in Parliament decided on for the public service companies. But it is already clear to me that several parties are in fact clear that they want to see major changes and cuts in public service during the next permit period. Of course, they do not call it cuts but talk about restructuring, sharpening the supply, a narrower assignment and a merger of the companies. I have said this before in this House, but it is worth repeating, namely that the broad mission today, which includes sports broadcasts, family entertainment and children's programmes intertwined with culture, documentaries and news items, ensures that SVT feels important to many people and that it can continue to be an obvious part of people's everyday lives, even though we can choose from more channels and streaming services than ever. This includes how shared experiences can create a sense of belonging even with strangers. It is also about there being an impartial and accessible news report even for those who cannot afford a newspaper subscription or payment service. It is also about easy-to-use education. We have really become aware during the pandemic what an important role public service has played in helping us understand the new virus and keep up to date with the latest research. For example, people have been able to send in their own questions and receive answers from experts. It is a fantastic service, and I think it has helped many to deal with their concerns and uncertainties in the crisis. We have been able to see how quickly the educational radio has supported students, parents and teachers when there was distance learning, which several speakers before me have also lifted up. Madam President, I would like A company that has the task of reflecting the whole country can give us a greater understanding of the person who lives in another part of the country or who has a different background from my own. This is done not only in news reports but also in other types of programmes. Of course, it is extremely important that you can play the role in everyone's life, even for those who need sign interpretation or visual interpretation. The fact that many people have a relationship with public service also plays a role in building trust in what is said. Is this a company that acts for the public good, independent of state power and private economic interests? If we are to continue to be a strong democracy in which citizens can rely on the scrutiny of powers and authorities, public service activities play an important role. A functioning democracy needs a well-informed population sharing the same image – or at least a partly similar picture of reality, as Christer Nylander described well. Of course, different perspectives should be highlighted, but what is the facts and what is the opinion should the listener or the viewer not have to doubt. Developments in the United States over the past few years clearly show what the situation might otherwise be. Then we can all say, Madam President, that we sometimes feel that a programme does not have the right input or that the question which I think is the right one is missing. Not everyone can be satisfied, nor are journalists immune to political changes and shifts in values in society. But that does not mean that we should interfere in or question the basis of action from a political point of view. There is a review board, and now also a media policy ombudsman, and recently the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the review of public service. It sounds very complicated, but it's really a simple procedure. The Swedish National Audit Office can help us to see that everything is working well. In the review, the Swedish National Audit Office noted that overall it works well but that there is potential for development and improvement. It is very welcome that such a review is carried out so that we can increase transparency. The fact that there are clear reasons for the decisions, which the Swedish National Audit Office points out, seems to me to be a matter of course. What worries me is that several bourgeois parties now fit into the choir that was long composed only of Swedish democrats. There has been a slight decline in confidence in public service, and now both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats want to take it to revenue because the companies do not function as they should, that they are not as impartial as they should and that one must probably do something about it. But how much do you have on your feet for that claim? This seems to me from time to time more like a search for those voters who sympathise with the Swedish Democrats than based on real development. Could it be that the low-trusted person is dissatisfied because he does not think there is enough negative talk about immigration? Is it less trust because climate skeptics don't get enough space? Are those the voters you should try to make more satisfied with public service? Is that what Viktor Wärnick says there is a big debate? That does not necessarily mean that there is something concrete to be put on in that debate. I'm very concerned about these notes. I'm trying to see where this idea came from. A while ago there was a discussion about a review from the Business Media Institute. They had found 40 not convictions but cases of criticism in 12 years. 75% of them concerned politics but not party politics. So we are dealing with 40 cases in 12 years. I do not think it is so alarming that you need to have these notes in the Swedish parliament or that it should generate the kind of proposals that exist in motions from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. I believe that your actions and questioning of public services help undermine trust. Then, as trust decreases, it can be pointed out that major changes are needed. I called it initial cuts. An alternative truth is that it will be a sharpened offer.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-893	Madam President, I would like It was a hot day in December, so at lunchtime. I was in my office in the African Development Bank near the equator in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. I was going home to Sweden later in the day. All of a sudden they started shooting all around the city. We heard the machine gunfire and had no idea what happened. Of course, the first thing that happened was that television and radio became silent. I was supposed to get to the airport. Actually I didn't get it, but I actually took a car and drove out to the airport through a burning sea, one might say. I got there. There was a plane. The guy who owned the salary slip said if you pay this much money, you'll fly. He was going to put them in his own pocket, and of course you don't bribe yourself through anything. Security Guards came to pick me up. The phones didn't work, but I still had contact with a Swedish journalist who was on site in West Africa for a newspaper. They took me to his place. We locked ourselves in and sat in the villa for 24 hours with the TV on. It was completely quiet and black, of course. After about 24 hours there was a little noise. Then it became quiet again. Then there was a noise, and there were a bunch of soldiers there and they said, "Now we've taken over the country." We're gonna clean it up from corruption. ..................................................... What's this about? Well, it's about owning the information. It is so important for those who want to destroy that the first thing they take over in such a situation is radio and television. The journalists who were there were later found beaten up. Now I do not think that this situation will arise here in Sweden. But we already have a situation where we are fighting for information, a situation where there is a lot of disinformation in our society. This takes place in different ways, such as attacks from outside countries. This occurs in filter bubbles, such as anti-vaccination campaigns that we see as a major problem, not least now under the coronapndemine. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we can respond to all of this and that we can have credible media so that people can get the right information, understand the information and have confidence in public authorities and public services and the media. Madam President, I would like I have been working on the Social Affairs Committee for two years now. Over the past year, I have been dealing with crisis management by our country and then very much with information. The WHO has said that we have a major problem: an infodemi. It is about distorted knowledge that is spread about the pandemic, about the vaccination and about what is good and what is not good. There are probably many of us who have been sitting in front of public service during this time watching the campfire, I would say, actually, that arose when the Public Health Authority started to have their daily broadcasts on television. We could gather there. There is something very beautiful in our country, and that is that we have great and high confidence in authorities and experts and the media. That is something we really must fight for and preserve, because that is not the case in all countries. That's why public service and a variety of media are so incredibly important. That is why it is also important that we have an investigative journalism. We see in today's society how information and news is spread as wildfires in different ways – via the internet, through social media and via radio and television. It's going so very fast, and there's always a tendency to shepherd mentality. That is why false information can also be disseminated so very quickly. The Agency for Psychological Defense will have a very important task. It is also extremely important that we use libraries and schools and teach our children what source criticism is. Madam President, I would like A diversity of strong and independent media throughout the country is a prerequisite for a strong democracy. All people, regardless of where they live, should have access to a comprehensive, high-quality news and media offering that can deepen, portray, review and explain society's events. Citizens must have the opportunity to make decisions on the basis of real knowledge. We live in a media landscape under great and rapid transformation where previous conditions for media consumption and news media are put on hold. Access to media and information has improved, exchanges of views and expressions of opinion have been facilitated and more can publish media content. An ambitious media policy strives for a living media diversity where strong, responsible and independent media across the country can help to highlight events in society from different perspectives. A strong public service in a vibrant media market characterised by integrity, independence, media ethics and a diversity of perspectives and enjoying public confidence is the foundation of the Green Party's media policy. Research shows that a strong public service combined with a viable commercial media market goes hand in hand with strong democracies. Madam President, I would like The existence of independent media capable of conveying factual news and reviewing government, parliament and authorities is central to maintaining a vital democracy. At a time when traditional newspapers with subscribers reach fewer and fewer, it is perhaps more important than ever that public services can maintain their public service mission. In our surrounding world, we have seen how authoritarian governments, shortly after taking control of the country's previous public service, have been able to transform it into a government-led propaganda channel as part of a dedemocratic process. Precisely because it is so important that it should not be easy to take control of public service, the Green Party has for many years pointed out the need to protect public service in the Constitution so that the possibilities for a government that wants to control the content of broadcasts are reduced. We hope that we can win a majority in the Swedish Parliament in order to do this in the future. Madam President, I would like In these words, I would like to call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-914	Madam President, I would like Now we come to the important area of student aid. It is an area that affects about 1 million Swedes for a very long time. Some are actually to be paid back, so this is a very important subject. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. I've said it before, but I want to say it again: There are a lot of possibilities in life. We Moderates want to seize these opportunities and make the best of them. We want all students in Sweden to have the opportunity to choose a school and to know that the school is of good quality regardless of the principal. Students should also be able to choose an upper secondary school that can offer many different opportunities and has many different orientations and programmes. The training will then provide the opportunity for work or the opportunity to study further before going to work. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, there are unique opportunities to study further with our study support system. The student grant provides opportunities to manage financially during the study period regardless of whether you are in another location or at which university you are at. You should also be able to study when you have a family; we now know that you will read a lot in the future. It should be possible to study even high up in the ages – we call it lifelong learning. We will hear a lot about this, but that is what is happening right now. It will also be so forward. The Moderates have therefore pushed the issue of raising the age limit in order to receive student support from the current 56-year-olds to 60-year-olds. We have been pushing this issue for many years without hearing it, but now the government parties are perhaps starting to wake up on this issue. In fact, they are beginning to realize that people will read higher up in their ages. People will have several training courses and certainly also several different professions during their working lives. The number of weeks of study must also be adapted to reality. We want to increase the number of weeks of study from 40 weeks to 60 weeks when you are 40 years of age. Of course, you should also have a plan with your studies. Not least during the pandemic, we have seen that the need to train for a long time will persist for almost all of life. We have also seen this in the past as technology develops within companies. We will have to educate ourselves, and we will have to adapt to that. Society and student aid must also adapt to these developments. Madam President, I would like In connection with this, the Moderates also want to review how it is possible to increase the link between adult education and the labour market and to review the possibility of getting the courses eligible for study funding. It's not quite like that now, but it needs to be reviewed. There is much that can be done here. When attending post-secondary education, it can often coincide with a desire to leave home or perhaps a change to another place of study. At the start of each semester, many students have great concerns about finding accommodation. Boverket has seen that there is actually a deficit of 20 study places out of 28 possible. This applies in both small and large municipalities. So you don't have anywhere to live as a new student. If you are going to complete your studies, it is important that you have safe housing and not just temporary solutions. When I was studying to be a doctor, I had fellow students who changed accommodations almost every month. It goes without saying that it is very unfortunate to have it that way when you are going to study in a demanding education. Of course, it may be a lack of housing, but it may also be that housing is too expensive to cope with it when you have student funds. Therefore, the Moderates believe that the means of study must be adapted – you should be able to apply for additional loans to improve housing and get an opportunity for good housing during your studies. It is said that student housing should be adapted to the CSN loan when they are built, but unfortunately it is not possible to do so. It is not possible to build on what a CSN loan looks like, but we actually have to adapt the loan so that you have the opportunity to get a good housing even during your studies. This can also stimulate construction so that there will be more student housing and so that more cheaper – small or larger – apartments will also be built. It can be a key to getting a varied accommodation. As I said, I would like to support reservation 1.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-928	Madam President, I would like This year we are debating a total of 40 motions in the field of student aid, and it is again easy to see a red thread. The Moments speak of improved opportunities for study later in life, which we just heard in the Moderates' speech, repayment and write-off of student debt, changed loan opportunities and more. About two years ago, I told a story here in the speaker's chair about how in Finland in 1985 a number of ruling politicians were locked up in a room and not allowed them to come out until they had reached an agreement. This took Finland forward, and a number of changes were made. I suggested that we do the same here in Sweden. Unfortunately, such an invitation has not yet arrived, and we note that none of the proposals submitted for 2019, 2020 or 2021 appear to win the approval of this House – not a single one. Although we are largely in agreement and we all want to change, nothing happens. We are different parties with different entry values, but at the same time we all agree that Sweden should retain and strengthen its role as a knowledge nation. One of the many goals we all aim for is the possibility of studying later in life and further up into the ages. Let us then take note of the fact that we actually have the same goal and sit down to discuss which way is best to get there. My and my party colleagues' door is always open for discussions and discussions. Sweden should be a country where people can live, work and have children in preschool and school even outside the larger places. We therefore propose that graduates, including preschool teachers, who take up employment in areas defined by the Swedish Board of Agriculture as sparsely populated, receive 15 per cent of their student debt written off for each year that they remain and work there. This would mean that the entire student debt would be paid off after about seven years and that a number of students had a continuity for a long time of their schooling, something that our youngest inhabitants unfortunately are not spoiled with today. It is likely that many employees will also want to stay after these seven years have passed and the debts have been written off, which would benefit not only the individual children and pupils or the individual school, but also the entire rural area and society at large. This is a clear example of such an issue where parties from both left and right are on a similar line, although there is talk of, for example, different percentages and different models of how to implement it. But this is an effort that needs to be made to address, for example, the shortage of teachers in our sparsely populated areas and to preserve or restore a living countryside. Since 2019, when I raised this issue for the first time, nothing really has happened, despite the fact that several parties have said that they want to change just that. Imagine what the Finnish model could have achieved by now! Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 3 on the cancellation of student debt for graduates who take up employment in rural areas.
i-Py6aJbESsX1ucBr3W5aR8L	Residence permits may be granted for studies at upper secondary school or other equivalent education, such as komvux or särvux. If the training has been completed, a residence permit shall be granted for six months after the date of issue of the diploma or equivalent. During this period, it is possible to seek employment through employment or income from economic activity. If the conditions of Section 17 of the Act are met, a permanent residence permit shall also be granted. Then this has been revised. The 6 months have become 12 months, and the requirements of § 17 of the Act have been further relaxed. Persons who are granted a residence permit in accordance with the new Upper Secondary Education Act must as a starting point finance their studies through student support. Maybe I should start by just sorting out the concepts here. The word student support is a collective name for the whole and includes study aid and funding. The term study funds means the purely financial means a student can receive as a payment on his/her account. It consists of student grants, i.e. money that students receive that does not need to be repaid, and student loans that the name reveals is a loan that the student is expected to repay. Then there is study aid, which is an additional type of allowance that can be obtained, for example, accommodation allowance, travel allowance, family benefits and so on. It is therefore important to separate student aid, student aid, student funding, student grants and student loans. Well, there were some numbers and statistics. By the so-called new Upper Secondary Education Act, student funds, i.e. grants and loans, have been paid out to 6,456 people on the last January 2021. The total amount is just over 800 million, and half are loans. Of those covered by this law, 99% are men, only 1% are women. 92% are from Afghanistan, and 97% are 22 years of age or older. Of the 6,456 persons, 113 persons, i.e. around 2 per cent, have so far been granted permanent residence permits on the basis of employment or income from economic activity. Thus, those who do not find jobs within 12, previous 6, months do not qualify for a residence permit and are expected to leave the country. This means that the Central Board of Student Aid, CSN, will have to recover this debt from abroad, probably then from Afghanistan. If a resident borrower does not pay, despite reminders and letters of demand, unpaid amounts are transferred to the debt collection in the country in which the person resides. If the borrower does not show any interest in resolving the situation or does not respond to CSN's contact attempt, the Authority may terminate the debt for immediate payment. The next step will then be for CSN to turn to the court of the country where the borrower lives in order to be able to request foreclosure of wages, any assets, etc. CSN itself states that it is experiencing difficulties in this region because it does not have any information on the addresses of the borrowers resident there and therefore cannot take action. According to CSN, the debt recovery partner has expressed that it is generally very difficult, if not impossible, to recover debts in this region. CSN further states that CSN is not likely to initiate legal proceedings in Afghanistan in particular, as the legal proceedings are difficult to investigate and it is complicated to obtain information on the costs of representing CSN's actions in court. This reported among other things Swedish Radio about autumn 2020. In view of this, I put a written question to the responsible minister asking how the government will act to ensure that these loans are repaid. The answer was that education, that's good. As the answer to the question was unanswered, I again asked the question in connection with Parliament's Question Time: Yes, education is good, but how does the government intend to act to ensure that these loans are repaid? The answer was: Education, that's good. Madam President, I would like I can only say that it does not look very good for the Swedish people to get back much of the student loans paid out. But education, that's good.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-951	Madam President, I would like A basic prerequisite for people from all over the country to be able to go to educational and educational institutions and realise their dreams is a well-functioning study support system. Properly designed, it can increase equality and opportunities for people with different backgrounds, both economically and socially, to learn on equal terms. That is why we in the Left Party were happy when, together with the government, we managed to get through an increase in the grant part of the study money during the last parliamentary term. But that is not enough, and we are not satisfied. The Pandemin has shown us that more and more people are looking for different educations. As many also lose their jobs, and where we see that we have a very high level of unemployment, it becomes important not least that we have a well-functioning study support system that welcomes all people who have applied for education and training and gives them the opportunity to live. In 2020, the Left Party proposed a budget increase on holiday supplements in the study aid. We proposed that for every ten weeks of student funding applied for and granted, a week's study grant should be paid as a summer grant. The Left Party therefore chose to allocate approximately 600 million more than the government in 2020 to finance this investment. Another issue that we pursued was the reminder fees to the Central Student Support Board. During the alliance government the reminder fee was increased from SEK 200 to SEK 450. The Left Party believes that we must take the issue of debt problems in students very seriously. That is why we simply proposed a billion-dollar investment aimed at removing these reminder fees that have been in debt to a great many students. Madam President, I would like I would like to talk about and shift the focus to the economic situation of students with disabilities. The Swedish Council for Higher Education notes that the situation for students with disabilities is very diverse across the country. However, it is also noted that a survey clearly shows that more people experience financial difficulties compared to students without functional variations. The open comments in the survey show, among other things, that few are aware of the possibility of having a slower pace of study with full study funding, while many of the small number of applicants are rejected. Several argue that the relationship with CSN and its regulatory framework is problematic and that the system does not show sufficient understanding of the challenges faced by people with functional variations. In the report, UHR notes that if the government really wants the possibility of part-time studies with full study funding for students with functional variations to be available in reality, CSN and other responsible actors need to provide clear information about this possibility and the requirements for adapted study funding to be reviewed. Therefore, we believe that the government should commission CSN, in cooperation with universities, to inform pupils with disabilities about this right. We also believe that the government should set up an investigation into the financial conditions for students with disabilities. Having said that, I would like to endorse our Left Party Amendment No 6. I will also say a few words about folk high school students and their opportunities to apply for additional cost loans. We see that peoples' education is an important part of achieving the participatory goals of being able to take part in culture, create culture and work in culture regardless of where in the country they live. With their presence in all the municipalities of the country, the study associations, together with the libraries, are the most widely distributed cultural actors. Many folk high schools are located outside the metropolitan areas and thus offer the opportunity to support cultural professions in many places in the country. Professional artists can combine their own creation with teaching. Folkhögskolan also becomes cultural meeting places for the surrounding society with their cultural programmes. We hope that the important mobility allowance, which has enabled students to move to other parts of the country, can be developed in cooperation with SKR. This is particularly important for the special courses in the field of aesthetics as they often recruit participants from different parts of the country. The activities of study associations are also an important forum for the exercise of culture. A large part of circular activity concerns the categories of art, music and media. Many are the ones who have had the chance to develop in a rehearsal hall at one of the study associations and got their first public gig at the student association's festival. However, it is worrying to see that resources and opportunities for their exercise have not improved. When a larger proportion of participants within the folk high school have disabilities, higher teacher density and greater knowledge is required among the educators. We have noted that the rules for applying for additional cost loans from CSN for instruments, for example, do not include students at folk high schools, but only at university level, which becomes a barrier for many of these students. We therefore believe that the government should come back with proposals for changes in the rules for additional cost loans. Last of all, we heard a Member from the Swedish Democrats say that no parties want to cooperate and that no proposals have been made. Perhaps you should consider what suggestions you are making. Even in a debate on student aid, when one highlights the smallest in order to blame system errors on immigration and on people with a different background, it is no wonder that no one wants to cooperate.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-968	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most generous student grants, and that is something we should be proud of. In today's knowledge society, demands are placed on the development of skills during most of the working life. In addition, the ongoing pandemic has resulted in many people losing their jobs, and studies are needed to cope with the transition needed to move forward in the world of work. It is therefore crucial to create good conditions for studies even later in life. It is an investment because lifelong learning not only strengthens the individual's development but also promotes the development and provision of skills in society. Madam President, I would like Today, unfortunately, there are limitations in student support that may hinder studies later in life. You can receive the grant part of the study aid until you turn 56, but the right to borrow is limited from the age of 47. This means that the number of weeks you can get student loans decreases gradually from the year you turn 47. At a time when life expectancy is increasing and Parliament has recently decided on an increase in the retirement age, we Christian Democrats believe that it is reasonable to also raise the threshold for the age at which student loans can be granted. We have been exercising this over several years, and it is therefore gratifying that the government has now announced that it will be possible to get student loans even higher up the age. We will follow this matter closely. Madam President, I would like According to the current regulations, reimbursement of student loans must start at the earliest six months after the last student grant was paid. The loan must be paid out in the year of the person's 60th birthday, and the loan can be repaid at the longest during a period of 25 years. However, as we live longer and working life is extended, the repayment period of the loans should also be extended. There must be a chance to repay student loans at a reasonable rate even if you study later in life. Too fast a repayment plan can prevent people from daring to invest in skills development or to start a new education. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that the age for repayment of student loans should be extended to the year they turn 65 instead of today's 60. Madam President, I would like It may be that a person who wants to resume studies later in life has managed to save up a buffer that allows the person to manage the household economy without taking new student loans. But the economy can also be strained by the repayment of student loans that have been taken earlier during life. While there is then the possibility of a reduction in the rate of repayment, we Christian Democrats believe that the main rule should instead be that as long as you study you should not have to pay off on your student loan. Of course, there must be limits on how long a person should have the right to wait with his or her refund due to studies. The details of this need to be further explored, but it would be reasonable to assume that the same requirements for study results that exist to maintain the student grant should also guide the length of the refund period. I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 4.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-978	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I wonder if the student grant must not be one of the most well-discussed issues in the Swedish Parliament. It is possible that there is an aspect of processing technology that leads to this and which I do not quite understand. After all, it was quite recently that we debated student aid. Then, before Christmas, many of the replica shifts were about a possible abolition of the free amount during the spring in the light of the pandemic. It is good that we Liberals, together with the Center Party and the government, were able to do just that in spring 2021. And, as happened to happen, the amending budget in which this is included today – even if the release is valid retroactively from the end of the year. We must, of course, return to the need for further extensions depending on the pandemic situation later on. Madam President, I would like The student support is available so that everyone who wants to and has eligibility can study at a university or folk high school. In Sweden, no one can say that you cannot afford because the system is available, fair and inclusive. The motivation for young people and older people to be able to study at university is not just about equipping people for the labour market. It is also about increasing knowledge and education in Sweden. As much as culture must have its own value and never exist for anything else, education and training need to have their own value. A study aid system, as it is organised today, contributes to this very thing. Madam President, I would like Liberals' assessment is that the study aid system is in many parts well balanced today. As several other speakers in this House have noted, there is a need, with the emergence of an ever longer working life, to review and raise age limits in the study aid system. This is part of the substantive agreement on 73 points reached between the Liberals, the Center Party and the government. There will also be a bill on this in the near future. While the possibility of taking out student loans is increasing, of course, we realise that age must be increased when it comes to being able to write off student funds. Although we have noted that the study funding system is well balanced, we cannot rule out the possibility of further reform of the system. Proposals that may need to be considered a little later on for better matching and skills development are, for example, individual skills accounts that can be built up to be used for further training and retraining. Precisely retraining, conversion and better matching are aspects that will only grow in importance. In the future, in order to increase the throughput in the university and increase the driving forces for students to pass their degree at the appointed time, we can see an expansion of summer courses within the framework of student support. These are some of the elements that we can see in the future. With this, I would once again ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-987	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the draft decision of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved. Today we are going to debate and discuss student grants and loans, which is an absolutely crucial condition for our students to actually manage their studies in an economically justifiable way. For us Social Democrats, ensuring financial security for further studies is a very important and deeply ideologically crucial issue. For us, it is about giving all children and young people, regardless of their financial background or the parents they happen to have, the opportunity to continue their studies. If there is interest, ambition and ability to study further, we can never let the size of the parents' wallet put obstacles in the way. Student support is crucial for everyone to have the chance to educate themselves, make a life's journey and reach the goals of their dreams. We know what this is about. We know what it was like just one or a few generations ago. It wasn't very long ago the door for further studies or university studies was basically closed to the children of the workers – this regardless of the levels of knowledge, prerequisites or grades from comprehensive school. It was an economic impossibility for ordinary people to finance costly studies where no state or municipal support was available. Today, Madam President, we see a completely different situation both in terms of interest in and demand for higher education. We see an increased need for well-trained employees in both business and welfare. We see increased need for excellence, researchers and doctoral students to keep up with, and at best lead, the development of extremely tough international competition. We now find ourselves in a situation where, as a country and a nation, we cannot afford to waste the conditions and opportunities of individuals because of economic standing. It is about justice and that everyone has opportunities but also about ensuring that we as a nation are able to fulfil the task of being a nation at the forefront and a welfare society worthy of the name. Madam President, I would like I am proud of the efforts that this and previous S-governments have made to make financial provision for upper secondary and post-secondary education. The development and need for higher education over the last 15 to 20 years has been extremely great, and we Social Democrats have tried to meet this with efforts at more higher education institutions and universities around the country. Higher education has thus become available to more and more localities. In 1994 147 000 full - year students attended college or university. Today, 2021, there are over 375 000 full-year students. It is a fantastic figure and proof of a necessary and successful bet. I am convinced that it is an effort that will continue to be equally important and necessary in the future, if not even more importantly, for us to remain at the forefront of development and welfare. However, I am not satisfied because there are major and important challenges to be resolved. We see a development where the need for education, further education and further education plays an increasingly important role in the Swedish labour market. We see that the need for education throughout working life is becoming both more common and more necessary in order to cope with today's and tomorrow's rapid transitions and developments. That is why, Madam President, I look forward to the government's proposal on the possibility of access to student aid above the age limit, as has been mentioned by several speakers here before. This makes it possible to study even after the age of 57. The bill will be discussed here in Parliament sometime in May, and I understand that it will receive broad support. Madam President, I would like Work to create freedom, opportunities and happiness for as many as possible must continue. And it needs to be intensified. It is about the freedom to be able to go to work and feel needed and demanded even if the labour market is becoming tougher, about the happiness of being able to gain a livelihood and create a secure life and about feeling that you are an active and important citizen of society who is able to contribute to the development of a society. We must fight for this freedom and happiness to apply to everyone. In order to do so, the work of enabling studies throughout life must continue. It is, of course, crucial and crucial that more and more people should achieve this, in my view, as important and crucial objectives. One might think, Madam President, that this should be a self-evident and common view among all parties in Parliament – that it is obvious that we should create better opportunities for study and establishment and for growth and change. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Several parties, including the KD, voted against the proposal to increase student support in 2018. And in 2020, the Moderates in their budget exercise wanted to remove the start-up support for those who are farthest away from the labour market. For me, the fact that there are still parties fighting against giving everyone the opportunity to study further is both incomprehensible and backward. In conclusion, Madam President, at least I promise to work tirelessly to continue to make it easier for more people to both train and replenish with knowledge throughout their lives. This requires us to continue to strengthen the economic potential of all individuals for study and re-training, in other words lifelong learning.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1000	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a strong knowledge nation. We remain among the world leaders in research, innovation and education. One reason for this is our study support system, which is one of the world's best and most generous. Good education for all is the fourth of the UN's 17 global sustainability goals. We are committed to ensuring inclusive and equal quality education and promoting lifelong learning for all. This applies both in our international work and, of course, here at home. There are quite a few words of value in this commitment, and the study support system has an impact and impact on all parts of the commitment. The goal of the student grant is that it should act as a recruitment for both women and men and contribute to a high level of participation in education – i.e. inclusive. We shall have an education, including higher education, of high and equal quality throughout the country. There, student support is a crucial prerequisite for everyone to have a real opportunity to study at all levels. But quality does not come by itself, and there are as well as no shortcuts to higher quality education. We shouldn't blame the students if the educations aren't up to date. There are sometimes voices raised because it is the student quality that is too low and that through different types of freezes and quotas we should keep some students away from education to improve quality. This is not something that I and the Green Party believe in. What we need to do is, together with the universities, create the very best conditions for students to take in teaching and be able to perform their best. For higher education, it is about providing resources for more teacher-led hours and ensuring the close link between teaching and research. This is what distinguishes university education and gives higher education institutions their place in the education system. And for that we need strong research environments all over the country to get this equivalent quality education. Then it is also important that we do not give incentives in the wrong direction. For this reason, I am in fact seriously concerned about the abolition of the amount of the release, which Maria Nilsson also mentioned in her speech but in positive terms. We clubbed this afternoon in this House through the extension of the waiver until the summer. We have done this for the important task of strengthening the human resources supply of, above all, healthcare now during the pandemic. But I'm still worried, because it gives the students an incentive that, alongside their studies, they should work far too much and thus risk the quality of their education. We know that a little work alongside promoting learning; that's good. But when it gets too much, the results of the study fall. We normally want the students to take their studies seriously and focus on the studies just to be able to perform their very best. Mr President, I would like to Lifelong learning is also part of the global UN target. Here the government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has a proposal that is in the process of increasing the age limits in the study aid system. We have heard about it in the past, and there seems to be broad support in this House for such a proposal. And that sounds positive. The question of lifelong learning, together with new opportunities in life and in working life, has been the Green Party for a long time. For this reason, I have written a motion on it which is dealt with in this report. It's about development time. It is a proposal that has been up in the past as part of the government's draft budget for 2020 but which was unfortunately voted down by the united opposition when the Left Party joined forces with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Development time is not a free year. Development time is a study grant aimed at people in the middle of working life. It should have better conditions than the student support that CSN administers, and it aims to ensure that people are educated in the deficiency professions. It aims to develop people's skills in order to manage their work when the labour market changes, for example to keep up with digitalisation, automation and technological development. But it will also enable a new direction for people in working life. It would also reduce discomfort in workplaces if you have the opportunity to develop and perhaps change your profession. This reduces mental illness and improves matching in the labour market. It is also extremely important. We know that those who have a degree from, for example, the University of Applied Sciences get more qualified jobs and raise their salary by quite many thousands each month. I find it sad that the opposition did not want it this way. But what has happened since the general period of exercise and since I tabled this motion is that the social partners have agreed that, despite the opposition's reluctance, we should have this kind of student support for people in the middle of working life. At the moment, work is under way in the Government Office to come up with a proposal that is quite similar to what I propose in my motion. For this reason, Mr President, I will not be in favour of my motion, but I await the proposal from the government. Mr President, I would like to I reject not only my own motion but all the motions in the report and support the committee's proposals in the report.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1016	Mr President, I would like to Last spring it was said that there was no ordinary debate on trade policy when we were in the middle of the covid-19 crisis. A year later we stand here with a continued pandemic in a second wave and perhaps a third. This affects our country, and it affects the world globally. Trade policy is extremely important for our country, both in crisis and in normal cases. Sweden is a small export- and import-dependent country in northern Europe that has free trade as its idea. This has served us well in terms of increasing our welfare, and that is the key to the welfare that other countries also need. That is why it is extremely important not only for us, but also for the world, to push ahead with openness and free trade. The alternative – protectionism – exposed the shortcomings of the spring and a wake-up call that it did not work as well as we thought. Transport within Europe has been stopped on its way with supplies of goods from supplier to buyer. The EU must continue to safeguard the free movement of goods, services and capital. And the EU with Sweden as a driving force needs to oppose Member States' attempts at protectionist proposals and instead develop the internal market to make it easier for companies to operate within the EU with a reduced regulatory burden. Sweden has its trade policy with the EU. It is a strength to be a big player in the global market. Under the guise of a stronger Europe in the world, the EU is working to be a strong voice in global trade policy. Having said that, I can also say that there are undeniably challenges. Already in 2024 85% of the world's GDP growth is expected to take place outside the EU. China's further rise will have a strong impact on the development of the global economy over the next ten years. The OECD predicts that China's GDP will grow by 4.7 percent per year. It is therefore extremely important that Sweden is on to the EU taking the lead shirt so that the multilateral agreements and the global network do not fall either now or in the future, so that we can have a strong free trade agenda with modern agreements. The world benefits from the global exchange of goods and services. Therefore, value chains are needed in an uncertain world where it is necessary to pay attention to forces that have other purposes than mere trading. Review is crucial in times like these. What is happening in terms of competition, subsidies, property rights and corruption? Free trade moves in two directions, and it is important to build trade relations. But one must be careful and ensure that the rules of the game are followed. Sweden should at the same time review its house around new and old markets for tomorrow. We also need to be an attractive country for companies to establish themselves in. It requires that energy is available 24:7 and is competitive, and we need efficient communications with transport routes nationally and internationally. We need to be at the top of the technology field, where development is fast and AI is part of the success factor – with unimagined opportunities. As one of the world's most innovative countries, Sweden can switch its production to the new, important products. We see, not least in this crisis, that we have the ability to solve new challenges in a completely new way. After the crisis, our industry may become a world leader in areas such as eco-design, and we can, for example, use our forest raw materials to a greater extent – for example, to make clothes. Sweden needs to continue to move forward with an ambitious free trade agenda; I cannot say that enough. The United States is one of Sweden's largest export markets, and Sweden and Swedish companies need to make direct investments in the United States just as the United States needs to trade with the world. Sweden has an interest in a broad and modern free trade agreement between the parties being put in place. Such an agreement would mean a great deal for jobs and increased prosperity, but would also contribute to a strengthened transatlantic link. We therefore believe that Sweden should be a strong voice for further negotiations with a view to achieving a complete EU-US Free Trade Agreement. With a new administration in place in Washington, opportunities have changed for the better. The WTO has long been out of business and is in crisis. The Member States disagree, protectionism has a major impact on the organisation and the US has on the way blocked the question of the appointment of judges in appeal proceedings. Achieving change in the handling of substantive issues and regulations is important. Now we have a new leadership in the WTO as well, and we have the new President in Washington. There is a new opening, and that is gratifying. With change comes opportunities, and therefore we see the importance of the Swedish government working to get both the USA and China to the negotiating table. Multilateral trading systems are of great importance, and it is therefore an important Swedish interest to make the WTO work. It is important to ensure the future relevance of the organisation. Accessibility to markets, a level playing field and removal of barriers to trade are important for global trade and the Swedish economy. Exports of goods and services are closely linked. For example, industrial products are often linked to service content in the form of software. We can see that the services sector has grown considerably over time and has grown at a higher rate than the goods trade in recent decades. Technology development and digitalisation are new opportunities for a country like Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country with a proud industrial history background. It is therefore regrettable that some parties are trying to put a cap on energy use. Such a ceiling would mean that Sweden may refuse new companies that want to establish themselves in our country. On the contrary, we believe that it is important that companies start here and want our country as a base. Sweden is often a leading country from a sustainability point of view, and therefore there are also such opportunities for companies when they establish themselves here. There are environmental benefits to that. Swedish companies are doing good in the world. The CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Jan-Olof Jacke writes about calculations that show that since 2018 Swedish exports have generated climate benefits equivalent to 26 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, due to displacement of dirtier production in other parts of the world. A fossil-free production is the key to growing global climate benefits. The UK is one of Sweden's most important trading partners, and therefore the outcome of Brexit was not desirable for Sweden. Nevertheless, this was now the case, and we must be grateful that the EU and the United Kingdom have been able to agree on a broad and comprehensive trade agreement containing content that is at least equivalent to the EU's modern free trade agreement with Japan and Canada. Sweden now needs to find a way in which our business community can find smooth solutions, without bureaucracy, to trade effectively with the UK. This is done indirectly in the framework of the Committee work to be set up for the management of the Agreement. There, the parties will discuss the interpretation and implementation of regulatory cooperation, lifting obstacles encountered by companies. In these meetings we are represented by the European Commission. Sweden and individual Member States have the right to be present as part of the EU delegation. I recently put a question to Minister of Trade Anna Hallberg, stating that what steps has the Government taken to get the Swedish proposals for solutions through the forthcoming trade agreement with the United Kingdom through the best possible means? I was told that the government will be active in the preparation of these meetings and will monitor the priorities for our country. It is extremely important for the opportunities of Swedish companies and for our country's trade how the outcome will be, and that is why we will be monitoring this issue closely. We know that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise at a time shortly after Brexit asked 1,661 companies that have some form of trade with the UK how they are experiencing the new situation. 22% replied that they are already experiencing problems. 57.5 percent expect problems in the future, and some of those who have had problems expect it to continue. These are long delivery times with exorbitant costs, uncertainty about whether new business will take place and customs handling that creates delays, which means longer value chains with increased forward planning. These are things that cause problems along the way. Mr President, I would like to There are always childhood diseases, especially since the agreement should have come into place earlier but that was not the case. Now the business organisations in the country have called for authorities to take their side in order to make trade possible and facilitate everyday work on forms and other complaints. It's important that you become a helper and not a helper. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservations 2 and 13. Of course, we support all our reservations.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1038	Mr President, I would like to 2020 was a different and exhausting year for us as individuals, for business and for world trade. During the spring we saw how global value chains were eliminated as a result of inputs from Asia not reaching Sweden. Given the lead time for deliveries of inputs, however, Swedish industry was initially able to continue production as usual, despite the strong shutdowns in China. But as time passed and the last inputs ordered before the pandemic sailed in, the anxiety and uncertainty for Swedish industry grew. Mass layoffs became a fact. I have previously touched on the situation in my municipality of Skövde in this House. The Volvo factories are major employers and are central parts of our local and regional industry. Friends, acquaintances, and family members were laid off into uncertainty – a uncertainty caused by a Chinese virus that had paralysed parts of the global value chains that we usually take for granted. Fortunately, they recovered relatively quickly, and Swedish industry did not meet the challenges it could have made. It was partly thanks to support measures that came into place under pressure from the opposition here in Parliament, but it was also much thanks to the fact that, even in such a situation, world trade worked relatively well after the first shock. Of course, it welcomes a free trade-friendly party such as the Swedish Democrats. We are fundamentally in favour of free and open trade in goods and services and of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements as a whole. Trade reduces protectionism and conveys contacts and skills between countries and continents. Global trade is thus a major contributor to both increased prosperity and reduced poverty. We therefore believe that Sweden, both within the EU and in international fora like the WTO, should work towards open and free trade and counter protectionism. Few things would harm Sweden's economy more than if Sweden and our trading partners began to restrict or otherwise prevent or increase international trade, which is something we emphasise in this report. In order to return to the effects of the pandemic on trade, the stress test to which the EU internal market was subjected also suffers. It was both food and other small commodities, such as when large parts of Italy were in the lockdown and the pasta dried up in the shops, and, perhaps above all, the handling of medical protective equipment. Swedish companies such as Mölnlycke Health Care, who did their utmost to assist during the pandemic and offer health professionals the protective equipment they needed, got caught up because the internal market failed. Just Mölnlycke Health Care tried to distribute millions of face masks and rubber gloves to Italy and Spain, which were then severely affected, but got to see their deliveries from China get stuck in France because that country imposed export bans on medicinal products. Perhaps it is easy to instinctively feel that France's export ban could be justified or reasonable because they themselves needed the goods. At the same time, however, Italy and Spain were there and then in a worse situation, and the behaviour puts risk not only on the internal market but also on the ownership of the companies that have their goods confiscated by a state. Mr President, I would like to I highlight this example in order to highlight the need for a well-functioning internal market. Swedish companies have gained access to the internal market through their membership in the EU, which benefits Sweden as an export nation. We therefore see the value of a well-functioning internal market with predictable and fair rules. Having said that, however, at the same time, we mean that the synergies of a streamlined internal market should always be balanced against the risks of an over-bureaucratic internal market because there is a risk of unnecessary, cost-driven regulatory uncertainty for Swedish companies. We are also opposed to the market and anti-trade tendencies that have recently flared up within the EU with proposals such as what some Member States have been discussing, to ease the EU's merger review to create so-called European champions. The idea that the EU would establish its own monopoly-like companies in order to tackle competition from American or Asian giant companies may seem attractive, but it would risk damaging competition, not least for Swedish companies. Looking beyond the internal market, there is also potential for improvement. For example, the entire Conservative bloc in the Committee on Economic Affairs has a reservation in this report on the need for a reform of the World Trade Organisation. This, since the important work of the WTO has now been suspended for a long period of time. The WTO needs to be both developed and streamlined to re-enact its role in creating security and simplicity in the global market. Sweden needs to take a leading role in this direction. The Swedish Democrats also believe that the government within the framework of the EU needs to promote further free trade agreements to a greater extent than is currently the case. The report mentions, for example, that work on ratifying the Mercosur Agreement needs to proceed, but also our desire for trade agreements with both the United States and Taiwan. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, however, a positive response in this area deserves to be taken up in the debate. We have been exercising for a long time on the importance of good trade relations with the United Kingdom, whether they are members of the European Union or not. Unlike other politicians, who have at times had a disparaging tone with regard to the sovereign decision of the British people to leave the Union, we have consistently supported the will of the British people. It is no secret, however, that Britain's withdrawal from the EU is rendering consequences. The UK is one of Sweden's most important trading partners, both in terms of exports and imports. With Britain now leaving the EU, it will not only affect the economy, freedom of movement and trade, but will also be about international relations with other states outside previous cooperation. Our position has therefore always been that Sweden should be a driving force within the EU for a trade agreement between the EU and the UK to come about. That is why it was an extremely encouraging message that came around Christmas: that the parties had reached an agreement in principle. However, the agreement has not yet been formally approved, and we on the part of the Swedish Democrats therefore also emphasise in this report the importance of a well-functioning trade relationship with the UK and believe that the government must work towards this regardless of the UK's relationship with the EU. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to reiterate the wish of the Swedish Democrats for open and free trade, a desire that characterises our reservations in this report. Although I support all of them, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 19 only for time on certain other issues relating to international trade.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1054	Mr President, I would like to When I was 11 years old, I got to know the boys Anders and Jonas. They had crept aboard the eastern Indianian Götheborg when she set out from the harbour in 1742 and followed as a stowaway with the Swedish merchants who travelled to Canton in China. I got to know Anders and Jonas via the book The Long Journey by Mats Wahl and Sven Nordqvist, and although the boys are fictional, the stories about how the trade in millennia brought the world together and people closer together are very real. The story of Anders and Jonas and how they saw the Swedish silver exchanged for tea, spices and porcelain might as well have been told about some other boys from another country, or about some other goods and some other trip. Trade has historically established cities, developed science and contributed to the development of civilizations. Trade has been a prerequisite for cities such as New York, Lübeck and Stockholm. It has helped us to explore our planet and to create the art of accounting. With barter, copper coins, international agreements and bank transfers, we have taken us from hunting communities to mega cities, prosperity and global trade agreements. While trade can create conflicts and has done so historically, it can also cause enemies to make peace. Trade has not always been and is not always fair but can also help reduce prejudice and bring people closer together. The Center Party wants Sweden to be a strong trading nation. We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 44. Mr President, I would like to I want to raise some crucial issues for the Center Party before Parliament and everyone watching this late evening. The first is to strengthen EU cooperation on trade issues with all its might – to use the power of EU cooperation to create better opportunities for Swedish export companies to trade with other parts of the world. The EU can strengthen trade, but trade can also strengthen the EU. In these times of crisis, when many countries are dealing with the pandemic but also with weak public finances, unemployment and low growth, the EU is beginning to be called into question as a positive force for the future. However, a Europe that opens up to the outside world and works actively for the establishment of more trade agreements will strengthen not only the economies of the countries but also cooperation within the Union. However, the EU also needs to develop its own internal market, where a digital single market strengthens intra-EU trade at a new time, for new businesses. Mr President, I would like to It is also important that Sweden works for a business environment and a trade policy where export to the outside world is self-evident for all companies, large and small. Trade policy cannot only be for our giants, but must be equally self-evident for the small family business in rural areas. That is why we need to strengthen the opportunities for companies to export and from a political point of view, with export promotion work through our authorities, to provide companies with the right support. We must give the authorities the right support from the political side to support small and medium-sized enterprises with know-how, contacts and skills. This has to happen all over the country. It is therefore crucial that trade promotion organisations such as Business Sweden, the Export Credit Board, the National Board of Trade and others are strong when it comes to supporting companies, so that they can get out into the world when the world hopefully opens up soon. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight trade as a prerequisite for strong climate action. If the Corona crisis affects everyone alive on this planet, the climate crisis will affect all future generations. Here it is important in a trade policy debate to say that all trade does not automatically mean anything good for the climate. It is clear that some countries and companies have not come as far in their will, ability or commitment to the climate, but Sweden is at the forefront. A more sustainable trade requires that Sweden also push ahead within the EU. The EU has so far not wanted to link sanctions to commitments in the sustainability chapters of the agreements. We believe that there is scope to improve follow-up to ensure that promises made by countries in trade agreements are also fulfilled. We therefore believe that Sweden should work for the EU to make the sustainability chapters of trade agreements binding, so that sustainability must be an important part of the EU's trade policy. Swedish companies are at the forefront of climate work, and we heard earlier from the speaker's chair here that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has reported this week how Swedish exports contribute to crowding away dirtier production in other parts of the world. It goes without saying that Swedish industry also has a lot to do to take on its climate responsibility, but at the same time we are more and more people who see the initiatives where Swedish industry is the driving force for climate issues and thus make exports more sustainable. The first example I would like to highlight is the investment in a new plant for fossil-free steel production. Production will take place in the small village of Svartbyn outside Boden near the coast of Norrland. Few people outside Svartbyn probably know about the village's existence, but no one will miss the trucks that in the future will roll along the motorways, built by the sustainable Swedish steel. Swedish exports are good for the climate. The second example is how some of our finest companies, Hennes and Mauritz and Ikea together with Stora Enso and the state are now investing in a new factory where wood will become textiles – a more environmentally friendly alternative to cotton and oil-based materials. The Swedish forest will make the clothing industry and the fabric industry more sustainable. My hope is that nothing will be more trendy on the fashion shows in Paris and Milan than durable clothes that have literally grown up in the Swedish countryside. Swedish exports are good for the climate. It is important to mention this in the debate. Sometimes we can hear that the future of the climate is about us trading less with each other, that the countries should stop and that consumption automatically drives emissions. But that's not true! Swedish companies are at the forefront and show that it is possible to combine high growth with low emissions. I welcome all the demonstrations around the world that highlight the major problems of the climate crisis, but above all I would like to highlight those who work in Swedish companies. They are the ones who will solve these problems. Mr President, I would like to When Anders and Jonas, who I started by talking about, and their generational companions traveled the world from the Swedish ports of the East Indies, it was neither sustainability nor the European Union that created the possibility of trade, as it is today. The power of the Swedish companies has multiplied since then. But the curiosity and conviction that the opportunities are not just around the corner but just as well on the other side of the world remain. As the world is now shaken by the pandemic, I am convinced that when we get out on the other side, it is the countries best equipped for increased trade that will be strong. And the position of the Center Party is clear: a strong Europe benefits us all, from the big city to the countryside. The city's creativity and rural power will in turn push for more sustainable trade with Swedish companies at the forefront. The task of politics will therefore be to create the best possible conditions for all companies, large and small, to export their products worldwide. The possibilities are around the corner and on the other side of the world.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1073	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 46. Sweden is a country dependent on foreign trade. Much of what we use daily would not be here or could be produced here if it were not for foreign trade. Trade with the outside world is crucial for Sweden's prosperity and development, quite simply. Many of our companies depend on both importing and exporting. They have global value chains, and they have a major impact on growth and employment both here in Sweden and in other parts of the world. We therefore have a great responsibility to change what these value chains and international agreements look like. The Left Party wants a fair trade policy that puts people, social justice, animals, climate and the environment first and focuses on social benefits for all, not just on profits for large companies, as we have seen so far. With the coronap pandemic, the economy of many countries has been severely tested, and trade has fallen both within and between these countries. The pandemic has created an economic crisis, and many countries and companies are cautious about what investments are being made. We simply want a fair trade policy that does not mean any deterioration for the citizens of the countries covered. Trade policy should represent a positive development in several respects. The UN's guiding principles for business and human rights are based on the state's duty to protect human rights, the responsibility of companies to respect them and the individual's ability to have his or her case tried in the event of violations. In times of crisis, these values are sometimes obscured. We have seen this with different pandemic laws now and with countries that have been democratic becoming almost dictatorships. I believe that it is now, as always, important to monitor these values. Statskontoret has analysed Sweden's compliance with the above principles and, among other things, proposed the possibility of imposing requirements for so-called human rights due diligence – a tool that companies can use to analyse the risks and prevent their activities from having a negative impact on human rights. It is proposed that this should be investigated and that the government should develop clear criteria for when state-owned companies should carry out such an analysis. In order to clarify companies' environmental and climate responsibility, a climate and environmental perspective should also be built on the proposals that the government is working on. The EU has already started work on human rights due diligence and environmental due diligence. We have attended several meetings with the EU, and these meetings are actually talking about human rights due diligence and how it could be applied to companies. Several countries recognise that this is a development that needs to happen. The Commissioner has been very clear that Sweden does not have to wait for the EU to take a decision on this, but the government could deal with these demands right now. Mr President, I would like to If environmental and human rights due diligence is the tool for companies to prevent their activities having a negative impact on human rights and the environment, the United Nations binding law is a binding regulatory framework for how companies must relate to human rights. The Treaty is a way of holding nations accountable for what their companies do even when they operate in other countries. It has been a major problem for many of the transnational companies to divide up their activities in order to avoid taking responsibility for human rights. Often we talk about competition when it comes to business issues. The proposals we point out – human rights due diligence, environmental due diligence and binding treatment – not only provide the conditions for those companies that actually manage to compete fairly, but also the opportunity for those companies that have shortcomings to correct them. Mr President, I would like to One of the trade agreements we have talked about most recently is the Mercosur Agreement. I would like to highlight some of the negative effects of the agreement. In conclusion, the implementation of the Mercosur Agreement will accelerate environmental degradation and the climate crisis and increase violations of human rights and impunity. Small-scale farmers, indigenous peoples and other people living in rural areas in both Mercosur countries and the EU will be particularly affected. There will be an increase in the export-oriented agricultural model, which destroys. Why am I so negative? Many people talk warmly about the Mercosur Agreement. There are things that go against each other. Meat, chicken and soya imports are expected to increase to the EU. Increased imports mean, of course, that production will increase in the Mercosur countries. Increased production means an increase in greenhouse gases, a larger area being used for animals and monocultures, and more use of watercourses. The increased area must be taken from somewhere. Indigenous peoples, small farmers and rainforests pay the price. To open up the forests, they will devastate and burn. Conflicts with indigenous peoples and environmentalists will increase. The cheap meat from the Mercosur countries, which is then imported by the EU, will hit the small farmers who work here in Europe hard. Transport emissions will increase, and this will not encourage local growth. No, this won't do. We need trade agreements which instead strengthen small farmers and biodiversity. We need clear control systems for the environment and legal requirements for the environment and democracy. We need trade agreements that strengthen workers' rights and not exploitation, which strengthen countries' management of natural resources and share technology.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1090	Mr President, I would like to You usually say, "No human being is an island." It is in relation to others that we develop into the people we are. I think we can use this parallel also at national level. Britain may be an island geographically, but even Britain cannot be an isolated island in terms of the movement of persons, goods, services and capital. I'm glad there was finally a deal in place. It's good for both parties. The alternative would have been worse – for everyone. That is the amazing thing about trade and exchange between countries. The objective of the internal market is to contribute to good economic development in Europe. It is amazing when we have a well-functioning flow of the four freedoms without being hindered by tariffs, charges, discrimination or national requirements. A well-functioning internal market makes it possible to have more to share in an increased welfare. Mr President, I would like to It is against this background that we Christian Democrats are warm supporters of increased free trade and international relations, and we want Sweden to sharpen itself a little bit more. It is an increased free and fair trade that binds countries and markets around the world. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the need for us to make an effort to reform the World Trade Organisation, which is an important player at global level. We Christian Democrats see the value of raising relations with our Nordic neighbours at this time. It's more important than in a lot of years. The current pandemic has destroyed a lot, and it will take a long time to regain lost ground. But it is not the time and place to now review Sweden's Corona strategy and compare it with our Nordic neighbours. I'll leave that a little bit there. But it is easy to note that we have seen a lot that we had never expected when it comes to how we look at each other in the Nordic countries. Fears, questionings, and suspicions have spread. Border trade has almost broken down in many municipalities. People who are used to living on one side of the border and having jobs, friends and relatives on the other side have had their lives drained. We all lose out on this. We will put our trust that the vaccination started on a large scale is a step that will trigger a positive spiral, but the vaccine will not be able to solve everything. It is extremely important to have leadership, and we are demanding a little more of the government here. I would like to emphasise that this is not just about formal agreements and clauses in important documents. Here we want to see leaders in Sweden at different positions talk well about our joint responsibility for good development in the Nordic region. There's more to do here. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to emphasise that the weakening of the economy in which this pandemic has put both Sweden and the other countries in the world is an increased risk of foreign direct investment, which is of a problematic nature in terms of security policy. It is important that Sweden takes this issue seriously, sets up review mechanisms and comes to the finish with the work that has been done so far. Otherwise, the crisis could have unforeseen consequences for a very long time to come. Sweden is a country that is dependent on both exports and imports. We, as a nation, must make sufficient efforts to ensure that Swedish companies survive the pandemic that we have not yet seen at the end of. It is a matter of the support packages that the government has presented and decided on reaching the companies, and in time. One final area I would like to highlight concerns the environmental benefits we can expect from increased free trade, free movement and increased international cooperation. We see the value of being able, through the EU, to take part in raising environmental ambitions for a better climate, less emissions and sustainable development, for example by sharpening the EU Ecodesign Directive. As things stand at the moment, we see a reduction in trade. The reduced mobility and all border barriers that have been set up to reduce the spread of infection have seriously damaged our ability to make the necessary climate change in business and, by extension, also for households. Many Swedish companies are well advanced in the development of environmental technology and, in a freer trade, could contribute more than today to the global transformation. We can look further at the tariffs on various components needed to build a climate-neutral society. This means an increase in costs, and the work risks being drawn out. It is therefore important to remove import duties in the climate-neutral economy, for example on biofuels, solar cells and nuclear components. We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 16.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1105	Mr President, I would like to In a way, international trade is perhaps the most liberal thing one can engage in. If you ask someone what it means to be liberal, the answer is, of course, that people should be free and decide over their own lives. You should choose what you want to do with your life and who you want to be—you know, all those things. But if you are going to do something, if you are going to act truly liberal, there is hardly anything more liberal than engaging in international trade. To meet people from all over the world and by exchanging things with each other increase the prosperity of both parties, to be curious, to be driven by discovering new things in the world through trade and to make new contacts, that is by nature liberal. It is possessed by liberalism. Mr President, I would like to As is often the case in trade debates, a bit strange to me, we are talking here about trade and free trade as if it were something that we politicians have made up. It is as if we politicians in Parliament or for that matter in the European Parliament or the WTO sat on our chambers and had debates and created opportunities for free trade. It's not like that. Mr President, I would like to Basically, if there had been no politicians, any WTO, any EU or any Sweden, people would actually have been completely free to trade with each other just as much as they wanted. After all, it is because politicians have at some point in history put up obstacles for people to cooperate with each other through trade that today we need politicians, like us in the Liberals, who are tearing down these barriers and ensuring that the obstacles that limit people's freedom to trade and trade with each other are removed. It is natural that we humans, who are curious, explorers who constantly strive to get it a little better than we had it yesterday, also trade with each other. It is indeed the case, Mr President, that if trade takes place on the basis of freedom, is voluntary and follows agreements – as people do most of the time fundamentally – yes, then it is indeed the case that trade always benefits both parties. There would have been no trade if it did not benefit both parties. The fact that trade is something transcendent is, by its very nature, something very beautiful. Trade transcends class boundaries. A poor man and a rich man who trades with each other will both get better, otherwise you wouldn't have exchanged. Then there would not have been a reason for both parties to agree and trade things with each other in a trade situation. Two people who speak different languages benefit from dealing with each other. Mr President, I would like to The second thing that is strange in this debate, and which is recurring in all the debates on trade, is that when we politicians talk about trade, it sounds as if it is countries that trade with each other – as if it is Sweden that trades with China, as if the United States is dealing with Europe or that we trade with the United Kingdom. But they are people, Mr President! It is people who build companies, who build up large and small businesses and s if choose to seek other people and trade with them. It is people in the United States, for example, who make something that I want here in Sweden and who are willing to trade with me to make it better for both of us. It is when the state stands in our way, either our state or any other state, that we do not have free trade. Free trade is about stopping standing in the way of people and allowing people to trade and trade with each other so that both parties are better off. That is free trade. Mr President, I would like to Apart from the fact that it is fundamentally natural that we have free trade and that we politicians must stop standing in the way because it is also the case that free trade makes the world better. It has been mentioned here before that almost all our wealth, all the resources we need to build this house, all the resources we need to hire people in health care, the police, in our justice system and all the resources we need to get food on our table somewhere in some direction, has been created by people switching things with each other, not infrequently across national borders. That's prosperity. All activities, everything else that the Riksdag does, come in principle from the trade. In fact, this is true in all other countries as well. Another thing you have to lift when you talk about trade is peace. Clearly, there is nothing that limits people's lives more than war and oppression of various kinds. When people trade with each other, not only do they create economic ties, but they also get to know each other across cultural boundaries and linguistic barriers. Countries get to know each other, and it creates bonds that reduce the risk of war and conflict and thus protect freedom. That is why the European project, the European Union, is ultimately a peace project. As we move closer together, the chances of peace tomorrow are also increasing, and the risk of conflict and war with each other is decreasing. It is precisely for this reason: When we humans meet each other and trade things with each other, we also find peace. Mr President, I would like to One challenge facing the whole world where trade clearly has a crucial role to play is the climate issue. It is clear that in the list of major threats to man, besides poverty and war, climate change is perhaps the greatest threat of all. In fact, it is not possible to resolve the climate issue without having growth and trade at the same time. In some arguments, it may sometimes sound as if growth is negative for the climate. It's not. Growth often simply means that we do more with less. We use fewer resources to create more value, to create something more. And that is exactly what the climate needs, that is to say, greater resource efficiency. Trade also enables climate-smart innovations and climate-smart technologies to spread across the world and help people save the climate together. When we create growth by trading with each other, we also have the resources to deal with the problems caused by climate change. We have the resources to create resilience and resilience to the serious consequences that climate change actually brings and will bring. Mr President, I would like to I would like to call for the approval of reservation 4, which is about ensuring that we get more free trade by removing more barriers for people to trade with each other. I think that is how we will build both prosperity and peace in the future, and I think that is how we will save the climate: by cooperating.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1119	Mr President, I would like to Joar Forssell's perhaps the most winged quote in this House was probably when he expressed himself in a debate on the new Tobacco Act in December 2018: Even if I don't snip, I can feel sympathy for the spirit. Mr President, I would like to Given Joar Forssell's support for the Swedish snus, I therefore find it strange that, within the framework of this report, he has not followed up on the joint reservation of the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates 30, the export ban on snus. The tricky EU has chosen to restrict the right of Europeans to snus, and although Sweden has received an exception, there is a ban on Swedish snus exports to the rest of the EU. This is true despite the fact that the number of tobacco-related deaths in Sweden is the lowest in Europe in terms of population, which is due to the fact that Swedes snip more and smoke less. So far, I'm convinced that Joar Forssell agrees with me, and I can sense that from his nods. Nevertheless, he and the Liberals have chosen not to support our proposal that the government should work to abolish the EU's export ban on Swedish snuff. I would like to ask Joar Forssell what this is all about.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Andersson. This is fun. We have debated many times with each other when we were youth union presidents, but unfortunately we rarely debate with each other in this House. Mr President, I would like to The honourable Member is quite right, of course, about the effect of snuff on public health. I'm not a snus or a smoker myself for that matter. I have often been accused of it, but I grew up with asthma so I have not devoted myself to tobacco for that reason. It is clear that people themselves must be allowed to choose what they do with their own body, and it is clear that, through democracy in their own countries, people must be allowed to regulate what they can buy and sell. I fully agree that it will be possible to export snus from Sweden to the world. This is an issue that the Liberals are pushing at European level. The Liberals' Member of the European Parliament has a prominent role in the Trade Policy Committee. It is, of course, about trade outside the Union, but in essence it also means taking an interest in such issues. I am pleased that Mr Tobias is committed to this issue, but it is something that we are pushing at a different political level. I hope that in the future we can have a tobacco policy in Sweden that is about reducing damage, that is to say ensuring that fewer people are harmed by tobacco, and that this policy can eventually spread to Europe.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1127	Mr President, I would like to In Joar Forssell's defense, Joar Forssell arrived at the Committee on Economic Affairs after the general period of exercise, so at that time he did not work on trade policy for the Liberals. It may be a pity that in this case, on the one hand, he agrees with the substance, but on the other hand he has not raised motions on the matter or chosen to follow up on the motions from the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates. At the same time, a proponent of both snus and EU federalism should reasonably oppose the EU's export ban on Swedish snus. I am pleased that Joar Forssell emphasises in this House that he does. I do not know to what extent the Liberals are working on the issue at EU level, but I work for the Swedish Democrats and the moderate committee colleagues in the Swedish Parliament on these issues. It is the parliament of which Joar Forssell is a member and the parliament where he has a good opportunity to follow up on suggestions if he finds them wise. He seems to do so given the exchange of views we have in this House. This should be a contribution, Mr President, to Joar Forssell, to consider, for next year's trade policy report, either raising motions on this issue rather than referring exclusively to fellow Members of the party in Brussels, or choosing to follow up the proposals made by the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates on the issues he describes himself to be united in with us.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1130	Mr President, I would like to I never really object to the Swedish Democrats, or any other party for that matter, picking up liberal politics and presenting them to the Swedish Parliament. This is something that I welcome, both on this issue and on other issues. As Tobias says – sorry, Mr Andersson says, Mr President – these have not been my questions that I have dealt with in this House until after the end of the period of exercise. It may well be that there are movements in this direction from us later on. Nor is it controversial in us, but it is something that I regard as liberal policy – and it has been so since before. Mr President, I would like to Let us remember that politics is a little more complex than picking up an individual issue, as Tobias does in that way. I have explained that we are pushing this issue, and that is an issue that we support. We are not running it at the same political level as Tobias does, and that is not the choice we have made so far. On the other hand, Mr President, it cannot be said in all honesty that Tobias is always 100% consistent either. When I was in the United States campaigning for Hillary Clinton a number of years ago, I met Mr Andersson there when he campaigned for Donald Trump. I suspect that he did not do it because he wanted to see Donald Trumps's anti-free trade policy or something like that, but it was other values that Mr Andersson supported. That's how politics works. There are some things you like and some things you don't like, and we talk about packages all the time. In the liberal package, I can say that the issue of the export of snuff is definitely included. ( PALMANN: Everyone is well aware that we address each other in the Chamber with first and last names. )
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1135	Mr President, I would like to Despite the late hour, this is a holiday because we have to debate trade policy, and that is so much fun! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in its report NU13 to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Cooperation between the countries of the world is becoming increasingly important as world trade's share of the global GDP grows. Sometimes, in fact, trade is the only platform for dialogue. Trade helps lift people out of poverty and spread climate-friendly solutions worldwide. And world trade makes a big difference even in Sweden. After about ten years, membership of the EU and the EU's internal market will increase trade in the internal market by between 100 and 130%. It shows how extremely important membership of the European Union is, and it also shows how strange it is that Britain has chosen to leave the internal market. But now it's done. I think everyone in this House knows that in Sweden there are as many as one in three people who go to work thanks to exports. These are incredibly large figures and show how important foreign trade is to us as a nation. Swedish companies with their successful presence around the world also have great opportunities to contribute to social and environmental sustainability. Mr President, I would like to If this is the case, all parties in the Swedish Parliament agree, as you have heard so far in the debate. We are so in agreement that it can sometimes be difficult to see what the differences in our policies are. I shall therefore do my best to explain, as forcefully as possible, what is most important in a social democratic trade policy. The Government's goal is free, sustainable and fair trade, a well-functioning internal market, a growing export and continued international investment in Sweden. Trade with others is good, and if we do it in a smart way, it can also be a tool in changing the world. We Social Democrats want to do that. More and more people realise that climate change also needs to take place in a socially and economically sustainable way. When the EU recently presented its review of trade policy, sustainability and workers' rights were highlighted. It's important and good. Global Deal, the international partnership initiated by Stefan Löfven for decent work, workers' rights and inclusive growth, makes a difference. The work is now transferred to the OECD. In this way we try to export not only goods and services but also the Swedish model. In a few years, the Global Deal has grown to gather more than 100 players from around the world. These are governments, companies and organisations. The steering group, chaired by Minister for Trade Anna Hallberg, includes the Secretary-General of the OECD and the Director-General of the ILO. It takes some time to change the world, but this is an important tool. Mr President, I would like to As we have heard earlier in the debate, Sweden is pushing for ambitious sustainability chapters in all EU trade agreements. It is important, but it is even more important that they are followed up. There must be consequences if we do not comply with what has been agreed. The Swedish export and investment strategy for more exporting companies across the country, which includes measurable targets, is also an important tool for increasing exports. Just as a colleague talked about earlier, both large and small companies, regardless of where in the country they are, should have good opportunities to become international and export. It gives jobs all over our country. Social sustainability and the benefits of trade should be shared by all. It is extremely important, and it should benefit both women and men. We won't settle for less. Another important component of the Social Democratic trade policy is the Swedish business environment with predictability and transparency and the Swedish partner model that means that we have stability and few conflicts in the labour market. Good welfare that includes all attracts many companies to be here and increases the willingness to invest. That makes me proud. Also important are human rights due diligence, which will permeate the entire supply chain and require companies to respect human rights, but also to facilitate those companies that take responsibility and act in a sustainable way to have a common playing field across the EU. This is something that many Swedish companies are asking for to level out the conditions of competition, and we are working for it in the EU. An open trade policy for a sustainable world is what we are aiming for. What we are now seeing is that the long-term investment we have made over the years in research and innovation has given us world-leading companies in many areas. We can now reap the benefits. Politics really makes a difference. Mr President, I would like to For us Social Democrats, climate change is not just an acute and serious threat. They are also an opportunity, through new products and services, to take market shares for our innovative companies that have long had sustainability as a guiding principle. The fact that a world-leading battery and energy cluster that provides almost incalculable opportunities takes shape in Västerås is one of all proofs of this. The fact that we now have two different Swedish initiatives to manufacture steel without coal is another. But for our companies to be as sustainable as they want throughout the production chain, we must of course enable mineral mining here in Sweden – in responsible forms. Mr President, I would like to On October 1st this year, the gates of the Expo 2020 World Exhibition will be opened in Dubai. It is delayed due to the pandemic but nevertheless important as a display window for Swedish sustainability and quality. Sweden's pavilion will be located in the area of sustainability. It is called The Forest, built entirely of wood and contains lots of innovative and energy-efficient solutions that permeate the entire Swedish sustainability thinking. But we will also show how we work with social sustainability in Sweden, for example through the partnership model and inclusive welfare for all. At the moment there are 113 participating companies and organisations in the Swedish delegation to Expo 2020, and only this year have five new ones joined. This indicates a strong belief in the future in business and should please many, not least the almost 1 1⁄2 million Swedes whose jobs depend on exports. It is important in the light of the pandemic and the protectionist trends that prevail that Sweden is present in international arenas to secure Swedish exports abroad and continued investments to Sweden and that we take on the leadership shirt when it comes to sustainable transition on all levels. We'll bet for the future. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that despite the fact that developments are going in the wrong direction in several areas of the world, I am delighted that the EU has after all negotiated a free trade agreement with the UK after Brexit, that the US has chosen a new administration that believes in multilateral solutions and that the WTO has had a strong and knowledgeable Secretary-General in Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala from Nigeria – the first woman in the leadership position and a very experienced person who is well placed to make the changes to the World Trade Organisation that need to be made. It's good, and it gives confidence in the future.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1154	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by clarifying my previous motion, which was not correct. It should be reservations 1 and 13, not 2 and 13. Åsa Eriksson stopped where I intended to go, i.e. with the trade agreement with the UK in connection with Brexit. As we were told some time ago, the organisations of Swedish companies are concerned, especially for the small companies that may have concerns at the beginning – what one might call childhood diseases. There is an appeal that Swedish authorities and works, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, should play a helping role so that they do not become corrupting for the companies at the start. There are difficulties in everyday matters such as filling out forms and other things. I would like to know how Åsa Eriksson and the Social Democrats view that the authorities are given a guiding role here and now so that they do not reject in cases where it is obvious that there is some misunderstanding but can help companies along the way if they have contact with the Swedish Tax Agency. I would also like to hear Åsa Eriksson comment on the view on the Swedish Enterprise's play this week about fossil-free electricity production as the key to growing global climate benefit. It is said that the target of 100 percent renewable needs to be replaced by 100 percent fossil-free. The current target is moving towards an electricity system that will be at least 40% more expensive than a target that instead moves towards 100 percent fossil-free. Maintaining a misguided target can seriously hamper our exports of climate-smart products and services. .....................................................
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1160	Mr President, I would like to I will try to answer the questions, which I understood to be two in number. When it comes to Brexit and the free trade agreement that the EU managed to negotiate with Britain on Christmas Eve, I think both Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and I are very happy about it. We're also a little relieved, because I think we've both been very worried about what this means for Swedish companies. The government has for a long time, ever since the UK decided to leave the EU, commissioned the National Board of Trade and other authorities to prepare Swedish companies as much as possible. It went a little slow at first, but as the date approached I felt that there were more and more people who took help from Kommerskollegium and others. I hope, of course, that the Swedish Tax Agency has the service-oriented attitude that you usually have when it comes to helping companies and individuals. If there are any problems there, we will of course have to look at them. But the attitude is that we should have an approach that allows for as good trade as possible for all parties. I would also like to remind all entrepreneurs who hopefully listen to us that we have Solvit, to which you can turn for help with different types of regulatory problems. I understood that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson is concerned that the supply of electricity will make it difficult for our export industry. I would ask Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson to clarify that question.
i-DZobXoDta8Jm72GwRyFkbK	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for your answer! It was at the last minute that we got an agreement with Britain in place, and it was urgent. We would have liked it to come earlier, and we should be glad that it was not a hard Brexit but a soft Brexit. As Åsa Eriksson says, the Swedish actors – Kommerskollegium, Business Sweden and Tullverket – have done a job, but it is also they who appeal for this and say that it is important now to ensure that agencies and works, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, are helped. This is also an appeal to us to make it happen. I can't do much about it, but the government has the opportunity to actually urge the Tax Agency to be helpful instead of spoiling. If you bring this up, it's an important part. My second question is that I am concerned about electricity. The energy supply is good when it works, but there are days when it doesn't. As far as industry is concerned, this requires a basic energy that allows you to receive electricity seven days a week and 24 hours a day. It is said that this is the key to growing global benefit. Since Åsa Eriksson and her party, the Social Democrats, are protecting exports, industry and jobs, I would like to know how she views the statement that came this week about 40% more expensive electricity if you do not use fossil-free and about this misdirected goal, which can make exports of climate-smart products and services more difficult if it only becomes renewable. Åsa Eriksson will be happy to comment on that.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1170	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little difficult to link the energy issue to trade policy, but of course it is in everyone's interest that we give our exporting companies – and all other companies too, for that matter – good conditions for their production. For us Social Democrats, it is always extremely important in energy policy to ensure that there is good and stable access to electricity at reasonable prices. It should also be predictable. This is always the case, and that is what we will continue to fight for.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1171	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners in this late hour! In the local centre where I live there is a grocery store. Right at the entrance you can buy Fairtrade roses. The eyes always fall on them just as you go in, so I've bought these roses one time or another. But when the coronapandemy broke out, I started shopping digitally instead of reducing the risk of infection, and these roses weren't bought... simply because I didn't think about it. A while ago, I met Fairtrade. Then I learned that it was not only me who had stopped buying these roses, but also many others. This has simply led to a fall in demand and to the unemployment of growers – they no longer have a livelihood and cannot get food on the table. What this example shows is that the coronapndemine has shown with painful precision how many vulnerabilities exist in our society and in our global system. Recently, a report from Oxfam showed that poverty and inequality have increased tremendously during the coronapandemia. They had even renamed this virus the inequality virus. According to their estimates, it will take ten years before we are at the level of poverty that we were on before the pandemic. These are people who end up in unemployment, who no longer have a livelihood and cannot put food on the table. The worst affected are, as usual, women, children and various vulnerable groups. At this point, it is extremely important that Sweden strongly supports the WTO's Aid for Trade initiative. This is a programme which supports the poorest countries in building their capacity to participate in free trade in different ways. It is also important that this support is given at the right angle; they should not have to detour via fossils or anything else stupid, but should be able to enter the green economy at once. Sweden's focus is also to specifically strengthen women's situation in this and give them the ability to act. Another shadow that has fallen over free trade in pandemic times is the indigenous peoples and the rainforest. We have now seen how countries are making economic revivals but doing so at the expense of human rights and how indigenous peoples are evicted from their homes, either through legal measures or through illegal measures. This is never okay. It has existed in the past, but unfortunately it has increased during the coronapandemine. One such example is Brazil. That is why we from the government say that as long as this goes on – as long as environmentalists are murdered and people are evicted from their homes – we cannot sign Mercosur, but we have to deal with this. If we now broaden our perspective, leave the rainforest and look at supply chains at all, we can see that there are many advantages to free trade but that there are also a great many violations, such as child labour and evictions. It is also about wages on which you cannot make a living, pollution and destruction. We really need to get to grips with this. The European Commission is now developing legislation called human rights due diligence. It shall cover both human rights and the environment. The very essence of this law is the UN's guiding principles of human rights. Sweden has now submitted a consultation response to this law. Sweden is a strong and proactive voice for strong legislation. There should also be redress so that those affected can receive compensation and redress, but the very purpose is, of course, to ensure that this never has to happen. However, for us to get there, there must be tough measures that provide an incentive to constantly minimise the risks and ensure that they do not happen. Sweden has also been clear that this law needs to be seen alongside both trade union organisations – one should have the right to organise so that people can run their cases – and the aid with support to civil society, which also provides support to people in order for them to run these cases. UN Secretary General Guterres recently said that man has declared war on nature. This is also something we have seen in particular under the coronap and something that we must get away from. It is therefore incredibly important that all trade agreements are in line with the Paris Agreement and that the sustainability chapters that exist are both ambitious and binding and that there are sanctions linked to them. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has taken an active and proactive role in a climate and socially sustainable trade policy. The Minister for Trade has formed a peer-to-mind group together with other countries and has pushed for an input into the EU's review of trade policy. This includes, among other things, phasing out fossil subsidies; this is an extremely large and heavy issue which it is very important for us to get to grips with. It also includes removing trade barriers for climate-smart goods and services, which many have mentioned today. It is also about facilitating the circular economy in different ways. In addition, there are wordings on animal welfare, which are extremely important in order to counteract new pandemics and ensure that zoonoses do not happen, as well as in the case of antibiotic use. There are also statements on the need to improve the situation of women, on a feminist trade policy and, of course, workers' rights and, as I mentioned, Aid for Trade. I want to nuance the picture, because now I have raised many disadvantages of free trade and economic growth. We can't hide them, they're there, and we need to deal with them. But I would also like to make it clear that without industry it is not possible to push for a climate change change. The creativity, knowledge and development that are there is extremely important, and we must support it. The Green Party has been called the Green Business Friend of Today's Industry and other newspapers. Our philosophy is to make tough demands to ensure that companies change in time but also to share the risks through various support such as Climate, Industrial and now also green credits. I want to make it clear that it is not really trade in itself that is the important thing, but it is those that it leads to: jobs, prosperity and climate change. I think that economist Raworth Raworth sums it up very clearly with her doughnut economy, as she calls it, that there are planetary boundaries that we cannot transcend, because we have no more than that. But then there is also a floor that we must maintain, so that people do not end up in poverty and so that there is school, education and welfare. And, of course, a distribution is needed so that inequality and inequalities are reduced. To sum up, fair and sustainable free trade and respect for the planet and human rights are extremely important. I therefore call for the committee's proposals to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1192	Mr President, I would like to To do the right thing, I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the report. Criterion measures for businesses and jobs must come now. This was how the Moderates began their speech last spring. Measures are crucial for both the city and rural areas and the smaller towns in Sweden. Today, a year later, there was support. On Facebook, an entrepreneur wrote yesterday: Tomorrow, 25 February at 12.00 noon, the application will open up to the conversion allowance for the period August 2020 to February 2021. We have had a number of interpellations, and questions have been asked about the lack of support, queue to the Swedish Agency for Growth and restrictions that have put companies in a state of starvation, largely, because they have not been able to shut down completely. Ultimately, it is about people losing jobs and livelihoods in our country and entrepreneurs seeing their life's work fall like a house of cards. When jobs disappear, the gender of Arbetsförmedlingen also increases, and then tax money does not tick into our common, i.e. welfare. We have lacked a strategy that had a track to save and secure human lives linked to keeping the economic wheels running. An innovative country with smart entrepreneurs could achieve more. I know that both individual entrepreneurs and business organisations have been looking to the government for proposals for covid-security solutions. These have been met with silence. People should be able to live, live, work and work throughout the country both now and in the future. For us, it is therefore crucial that Sweden's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities should be exploited throughout the country and that people and companies should be given the opportunity to grow and develop, wherever they live and work in the country. There should be a vibrant countryside and a vibrant city life, and there should be good conditions for starting and running businesses. For us Moderates, this is natural and self-evident. But far from the whole country is alive now, and political decisions matter. A country in balance is about our resources and our industries keeping the country alive. Our assets should be used sustainably and sustainably for development but not decommissioning. Our country and its inhabitants need to be able to live on and on the resources available. We say living countryside with open landscapes, living forests with potential for new products and for owners to care for and use. We say living coasts to take advantage of our cultural history. Mr President, I would like to Nutrients are interrelated, and it is possible to do both, i.e. to use and be sustainable. Our history locally, our cultural geography and our heritage give us opportunities. In my county in northwestern Skåne there are 25 harbours along Öresund. They are historical and are often the reason why societies have emerged and then grown. Living ports are also of great interest to the country's tourists who travel around and visit these small towns. Great is the joy of the visitor who stops and asks the person who conducts house fishing how it has gone, how it is conducted, which fish are caught and then looks down into the cooler to see what kind of catch it is. Fishing and domestic fishing here has ancient traditions and is perhaps the most important link to the history and culture of the coastal population. The fact that this has now been the subject of HaV's long fingers can land in a dead hand over these fishing villages, and that is frightening to me. I hope that the government will take a wise line forward. Not least in the light of the fact that, before the pandemic, we have hailed our tourism industry as one of the industries that has given work broad and has been a motor for the step into the labour market and the bill A country to visit, which had a sharp end and which we have not yet seen, one can think about whether we will have any post-pandemic tourism. Let's hope so. During hemester, people have fled apartments in the city and come to appreciate the country's parts of nature of different kinds. Skåne was in 2020 the country's most attractive county to move to, at the same time as it has been record relocation from Stockholm, according to the sources SCB and Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. Sweden is a country with long distances and extensive rural and sparsely populated areas. In vulnerable and vulnerable rural areas, it is important to be able to continue with increased operating aid to small shops. At the same time, it is important that the granting of operating aid does not entail costs resulting from forced investment due to new laws and EU rules. Not least in the wake of the pandemic, this is important. We have seen the importance of broadband during the pandemic. Several areas have now become white spots, given that the possibilities and difficulties of homework are there during the pandemic. We need a real take-up here now. Support at EU level should aim, as far as possible, to contribute to activities that can ultimately carry themselves. It is also important that the programming documents to be used nationally become as user-friendly as possible and are based on objectives and measurability. We believe that efforts should be made at national level to create programme structures that generate sustainable activities locally and regionally and that go along with time. In addition to EU-funded regional policy, Almis's activities as well as the Swedish Agency for Growth's allocated funds and the Leader projects within the Swedish Board of Agriculture should be evaluated and monitored in order to meet society's best possible exchange for tax money. In order to be able to have businesses, industry and jobs regionally and locally, as well as services for the inhabitants of the country, electricity is needed. Safe systems and good capacity with basic power are important. In South Sweden, like the rest of the country, we make a trip to more electricity use. This means that the situation is very harsh, and it cannot be unknown to anyone. Environmentally, ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör have switched to electricity. They're devouring power. The ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör devour electricity equivalent to an entire society with about 7,000 people. Companies signal that they can't expand. The South Swedish Chamber of Commerce and many more have signalled this. We have listed a number of companies such as Pågen, Lindab, Polychemistry, Kemira and others, and the list can be made longer. Municipalities signal that residential areas cannot be built. South Sweden has a large cluster in Lund with ESS, the MAX IV laboratory. The whole region needs electricity use during conversion. People should commute, charging poles should be in place and electric cars should be used. In our northern part of the country there are positive things happening with projects like Hybrid's steel production without coal in collaboration with SSAB, Vattenfall and LKAB. Then there will be even more electricity, and now there will be signals that more electricity use in the north can help double the consumption figure. This affects the whole country, not least southern Sweden. We live on a thread at the bottom of electricity, and the situation is serious. I hope we can talk about fossil-free secure electricity for the whole country's jobs, growth and entrepreneurship, with electricity supply 24:7. The whole country will live.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1215	Mr President, I would like to This morning on the subway on my way here to Parliament House I came to reflect on how complex and energy-intensive the metro system is likely to be. The trains are powered by electricity, and the stations' lighting, the escalators, the elevators, the ticket machines, the speaker systems and, to my mind, the traffic management system are also completely dependent on access to electricity – electricity on which all of us in our modern society depend, see as something self-evident and very rarely give a thought to how we would do without. The reflection made me think of my own municipality of residence Gällivare and my own constituency Norrbotten. I was thinking about Lule River, which has its beginnings near the Sulitelma mountain massif up in the mountains, which is magically beautiful this time of year. I thought that much of Sweden's energy supply actually comes from there. Lule River's first two hydroelectric power plants out of a total of fifteen are located in Gällivare municipality. Ritsem and Vieta are their names. Nedströms is also Sweden's largest hydropower plant, Harspånget, in my southern neighboring municipality of Jokkmokk. Then the thoughts came to float away further, and I thought of the enormous wealth for us as a nation generated in places that few have even heard of. Sure, people may have seen the documentary about the power station building in Messaure or heard about the copper extraction in Aitik. Others may be familiar with LKAB's mines in Malmfälten, which move entire cities or have heard about SSAB's steel production and the Hybrid project in Luleå. But for many it is far away, even very far away – in Norrland. Norrland is unfortunately seen in the eyes of too many as something tiring that one visits at most to ski during the sports holiday. And I think nothing could be more wrong. So it goes on to the eight years during which I drove trucks around Europe. I was a young boy from Malmö, the city that has given rise to the saying of Haur you have its Malmö, but I could quite quickly say that I didn't have it at all. The job took me to many exciting places such as Paris, Madrid, Rome, Budapest and Warsaw, but also to places such as Gnarp, Kungshamn, Katrineholm, Källby and Docksta. In fact, it took me to so many small towns in our elongated country that I can't remember them all. But one thing was clear to me early on, and it is that around our country in places many haven't even heard of produced everything from spreaders to finished bathroom modules, truck rear axles and huge rolls of steel sheet. Both when I was driving trucks and in my job as a politician I have had the favor of seeing and visiting companies, often world leaders in their respective segments, and impressed by what I have seen. And most of the time, these companies have been in rural areas far beyond SL's network map. So I ask myself: how can it be that these areas which contribute so much, which have generated so much to our common prosperity and which in fact make it possible, in many ways, even to live in the big city often have to stand back in the interplay between the city and the countryside? For that is the case, Mr President. I want to see this as an interaction where both city and country are needed. Unfortunately, however, people and businesses in rural areas often find themselves forgotten or, worse still, exempt. Of course, in this particular debate there is often talk of the whole of Sweden living, but for many out there in the country this sounds false, a bit like a condescending pat on the head. In Sweden's rural areas, it is not slogans that make everyday life easier, but what political decisions are made by us that make a difference. How can it be that the areas that account for half of Sweden's power production or where the grain is grown that will become our daily bread, or to President Andreas Norlén's famous bread or where the ore that later becomes ball bearings, trucks and electricity lines are being broken has come to be regarded as boring and in need of support? Some of Europe's largest mines are located in northern Sweden, but the people who live there have to kindly accept that the roads are the country's worst and accept that they have reduced speeds and thus their travel times extended. Farmers and foresters are served tax increases after tax increases on fuel and are encouraged to switch, although the alternatives are often not more realistic than in any science fiction film on Netflix. People with long distances and non-existent public transport are seeing an increasing share of disposable income consumed by taxes from a distance while being urged to take their environmental responsibility and travel collectively or buy an electric car – not infrequently by idealists who themselves wander around Stockholm on tax-subsidised electric bicycles or borrowed electric scooters without having any idea of the non-existent charging infrastructure in the countryside. That is not how we create a country that stays together, that is not how we create a sense of belonging between city and country, and that is definitely not how we create regional growth, Mr President. There is much to do, and if much we are gratefully also quite in agreement. The revision of beach protection rules is an example of this. That state authorities should be located as far as possible outside the metropolitan regions as well. Nor is the issue of aid for the commercial services that are so important for rural areas a real hot potato. After all, most of the participants in this debate have an insight into how extremely important the commercial service is to keep a village or a whole village going. Often, the country store or petrol station is the place where the bus, if it goes, stops, where you buy food, hand in the tip slip and collect mail packages, medicines and ordered system goods. Shy's gas station or shop away is also a wide range of important functions that it fills away. We believe that support for commercial services is so important that it is now appropriate to have it examined whether it is still fit for purpose, is at a level that enables them to actually fulfil their function and that the money ends up where it is most useful. This is an investigation we are proposing in our committee motion on regional development policy, and such an analysis of aid should be completely uncontroversial, I think. Another proposal that could seriously improve the situation of the country's economically heavily strained regions today is to regionalise the property tax on industrial properties and electricity generation units. Such a regionalisation of the property tax would strengthen the economy of all the regions of the country, but especially of the four northern counties – counties in which large benefits for the country are produced and where many today feel that they receive very little back for the natural resources extracted there. We also make the assessment that each region is better equipped to identify which regional initiatives need to be prioritised to create growth than the state is, which is why regionalisation of property tax feels like the right way to go. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, of course, I agree with all our reservations in the report, but, in accordance with the agreement to request only one reservation per report, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation number 6.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1239	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 7. The report on regional development policy contains a chapter on commercial and public services. In this area, the Center Party has been pursuing political issues for many decades, and I have actually found motions all the way from Thorbjörn Fälldin's time as a Member where he raised the same problem as we are doing today. The report highlights the fact that access to a basic service at a reasonable distance is a prerequisite for living and operating in a locality. To establish a form of service guarantee throughout the country that makes every citizen of Sweden have a basic service at a reasonable distance, we think, in the Center Party, is very reasonable. We know that approximately 10 000 new state jobs have been created in Stockholm for a few decades, and that the state has withdrawn from the smaller cities around the country is also well known. The move of government jobs has not only gone to Stockholm but also to the regional centre. In other words, the counties have also concentrated on the main areas of the regions. The Rural Committee, which presented a report a few years ago, had a proposal to move 10 000 jobs out of Stockholm. The government started a job in that direction, but unfortunately it seems to have stopped. I think the government is wrong when you move jobs out of Stockholm. The 2,000 jobs initially identified are being relocated to other major cities in the country, to university and regional centres which are already experiencing significant growth. If you want the whole country to live, you'll probably have to broaden your perspective more than that. Paragraph 23 of the January Agreement states that no new authorities should be located in Stockholm during the term of office. It's good, but it's not enough. There is also a point in the January agreement to expand more state service agencies throughout the country. Some have already opened up, and more are coming. I hope that in more places there will be interaction between the state, the region and the municipality. As a citizen, they want public service, but how the public administration has divided its tasks is not the citizen's interest. Mr President, I would like to Much of Sweden's values and profits are created outside the big cities, and the Center Party believes that it is reasonable that some of the values created in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas can stay there. As we all know, Norway has a system for this, and we think that we should be able to start discussing it in Sweden as well. How do we create a level playing field for living, living and working throughout the country? We have recently reviewed the cost compensation for municipalities and regions, and although it is only a small part of the tax equalisation – about 10% – it nevertheless caused a heated debate. The latest revision of the cost adjustment took account of and screwed up the rural factors, as well as screwing up the socio-economic factor. In the January agreement we have an agreement on a comprehensive tax reform to be implemented. The reform will aim to increase employment and the number of hours worked by reducing taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. It will also help to achieve climate and environmental objectives, strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, smooth economic gaps and reduce marginal tax, as has already been done. Fewer are also required to pay State tax, and by limiting the number of exemptions, the tax system should be simplified. Furthermore, the agreement provides that the reform will reduce household indebtedness and contribute to improving the functioning of the housing market, increasing the fiscal share of the financial sector and ensuring long-term welfare. To this will be added an announcement based on motions by the Center Party and the Moderates for a review of the municipal economic tax equalisation system, focusing on development, growth and equivalent service across the country. In fact, all parties in the Finance Committee supported the announcement. There is therefore a broad consensus in the Riksdag that the tax system needs to be reviewed. It is now 30 years since the last major tax reform was carried out. The problem is not in the will to review the tax system, but in what a review will result. While I am talking about taxes, I would like to highlight the regional tax reduction that we in Parliament decided on last December but which applies to the entire tax year 2020. We know that the tax differential between municipalities today is SEK 6 and if it were the case that those who pay the highest tax also have the best service, it would not be a problem, but now it is actually the opposite. The regional tax reduction means that the inhabitants of most municipalities in Norrland – not all – and in north-west Svealand are entitled to a tax reduction of SEK 1,675 per year, which is counted against municipal income tax. This compensates some, but of course it is not enough and does not fully compensate for the high tax burden in sparsely populated municipalities. Another issue which is of great importance for regional development and which the Center Party highlights in the report is the regional responsibility of our state authorities, which we think is far too low. State-owned companies should also take greater regional responsibility. When a state-owned company like Vattenfall resigns staff in Jokkmokk and moves the staff and jobs to Mumbai in India, we are perhaps a few who get a bit thoughtful. Mr President, I would like to Since 2019, all regions have been responsible for regional growth efforts. This should involve regions even more in the use of EU structural and investment funds. As far as the Regional Development Fund is concerned, the municipalities and regions are involved in the work, but in the case of the Social Fund they are not at all involved in the work, at least not according to the talks I have had with my colleagues in SKR. I would also like the transparency of the government in the distribution of regional EU funds to be increased. I have had contact with some Norrlandslän who have received a reduced allocation but have not received any explanation of why. From what I have learned, it is because the government has devalued the sparse factor. Changes in such bases of calculation should be fully transparent, and the regions should be informed about this. I would like to say a few words about the rural development programme. Since we have a gap in the EU's multiannual financial framework in 2021 and 2022, together with the government parties and the Liberals, we have negotiated 10 1⁄2 billion for 2021 and 2022. During these years, certain measures will be strengthened in order to better achieve the objectives of the Swedish Food Strategy. Efforts for investment and for young farmers will be strengthened as well as measures for innovation, advice and skills development. Efforts to conserve pastures and to build new wetlands are also reinforced. The programme during the transitional period also includes new initiatives for the digital transformation of rural businesses, the tourism industry and the development capacity of rural municipalities. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with a few positive points. Earlier in my speeches on regional development policy, I have raised the country dealer Joel Zackrisson, who has his shop in Venjan parish, which is located between Mora and Sälen. Joel, a relatively young country dealer, has in the past year started up four new stores. These are small digital stores with no staff and which are open 24 hours a week. The first three shops he opened, not out in the countryside, but near Mora, just a kilometer from the city center. The fourth store was recently opened, just a few weeks ago, in Evertsberg, as those who have been on Vasaloppet or seen it on TV recognize. I think it's a fantastic achievement of him. I see that out of new, difficult times new ideas are born that talented entrepreneurs take advantage of. The pandemic that we are experiencing may mean that more people will discover all the benefits that life in the country can offer.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1256	Mr President, I would like to I have visited the country merchants, Peter Helander, and am very inspired by how to find new opportunities in rural areas. My question is very brief. I know that we share a great deal of commitment to a common industry. This is about the farm sale of alcoholic beverages. I know that in its 73-point programme with the government, the Centre Party has raised the issue, so that this can be done. My simple question to Peter Helander is: Where is the question now?
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1258	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a good question. Both the Moderates and the Center Party have been pushing the issue of farm sales for over a decade. I am pleased that we have included this in the January agreement. Then I'll be honest and say that it says there should be an investigation into farm sales. I can also say that if we had the power to decide, it would have said that we should introduce farm sales. We have been involved in negotiating the directives. Now an investigation is to be initiated which, according to us, should be about how we can introduce farm sales not if and in what way. There should be an investigation into how it should be introduced. We've fought pretty hard for that. Then Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, like me, knows that there are many parties here who do not want to see this. But I share Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's view that this is not really an alcohol issue but a rural issue. There is no one who believes that making beer or wine in rural areas for a huge amount of money will in any way increase alcohol consumption in the country. Rather, it will contribute to the tourism industry and to rural development. We are many who would like to have the opportunity to cycle around among Scanian farms and taste wine or beer. Even if you hope that it will be possible to grow grapes in Norrland I don't think so, but in Skåne you could do so. This would be incredibly good for our hospitality industry. I therefore hope that we can get this right in the near future.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1262	Madam President, I would like This issue is very important, and it is a rural issue. When this pandemic is over, and at least if we can hemestra, there is great potential. Before the pandemic there were a lot of vineyards. Some disappeared quite quickly, while others try to survive. We sincerely hope that they survive and will have to flourish. It really needs the hospitality industry in different ways. Of course, I would have liked it to have been the introduction of farm sales. It is good that it is about how we are going to introduce it. However, I think that the issue should be speeded up and that it should be brought to a successful conclusion.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1264	Madam President, I would like We share the same view, Mrs Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and I. It is not only about wine but also about beer and cider. I have visited a farm that makes cider myself. It is almost a little pathetic that it can be made and that you have to taste it and so on. But if you want to buy a bottle of cider, you can't buy it, you can order it at Systembolaget. Previous investigations show that there would be no dangerous alcohol effects. This is not the first time that this issue has been investigated. When the directives for the investigation were written, we said that what has been investigated in the past should not be investigated again, but that we should now take another step. I hope, like Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, that in the near future we can see farm sales.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1268	Madam President, I would like Sweden has large and growing regional differences. These differences have also increased as a consequence of the ongoing pandemic. The economic consequences are great, and most worrying are developments in the labour market. The Left Party wants to build a stronger society that is capable of caring for its inhabitants, whether the crisis is global and affects everyone or whether it is personal. There is a need for a comprehensive strategy for regional development policy based on long-term sustainability, developed cooperation, greater regional influence and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. Access to public services is crucial for people to live and live their lives. Government services must also be available in rural areas. There is therefore a great need for efforts to make important societal functions available in areas where the public has been dismantled. There is a clear trend that stores are closing – under the coronapandemy it has become even worse – and that jobs disappear when market forces are given free leeway. In recent decades, the public has been the first to leave the countryside and suburbs to their fate. It would be cruel to have a policy that affects all parts of society. The State must have overall responsibility for a series of measures that ensure that businesses can be set up, grow and run further, whether in the city or in the countryside. I believe that there is a need for a different policy, a policy that means that everyone in Sweden gets the same chance and that you can trust that the welfare society works regardless of where you live and provides the conditions for jobs, housing, good public service and not least care and school. You should not feel compelled to leave an area because it feels abandoned, even though there is home, industry, agriculture and production. It is clear that some municipalities have had to account for large parts of energy production. It is particularly clear with hydropower. I believe that the regions with this type of production should be able to retain parts of the pot generated by production. The fact that more of the value of natural resources remains where they are extracted is very valuable to those living in the countryside. Although hydropower generates huge sums of money, only a small proportion of the surplus comes from hydropower production in the municipalities. These sums could be used to drive the development of local communities, to compensate for the restrictions imposed by this type of production, to strengthen local democracy and to build better roads. The government chose to reduce the property tax on hydropower, but at the same time there is no other solution to how to return funds to the municipalities in addition to the so-called local area compensation. We could look at Norway, which has a model in which the municipalities receive a significantly higher compensation for the negative consequences of the expansion of hydroelectric power. I would therefore like to see a greater proportion of the profits of the power companies returned to the municipalities and regions where hydropower is produced. Madam President, I would like Something that we have discussed a lot in recent days – at least more than usual – is Nordic cooperation. Unfortunately, we have seen that Nordic cooperation has not been as anchored as we thought. I believe that there is great potential in developing Nordic cooperation across national borders. We have a lot in common with our Nordic neighbours, and we would benefit from developing cooperation in a number of areas such as infrastructure, research, capital supply, labour market and services – especially in border regions. In my opinion, therefore, Nordic cooperation in regional policy should be developed, especially with our neighbours Norway, Denmark and Finland. I also welcome regional solutions to make it easier for those living and working in the border regions. This is what we have really seen during these days, when Swedes commuting to Norway to work in principle have been locked out of their jobs with the closed borders. They are now living in a limbo situation: they have jobs, that is, they are not unemployed, but they are not allowed to go to their jobs. They are not entitled to a cashier or to any other form of financial security. They are encouraged to take their holiday days. No, we can do better if we seriously believe that there is Nordic cooperation and that we can easily work in a bordering Nordic country. In the Nordic Council we are constantly working to remove border barriers, so the development has really gone in the wrong direction. We propose, among other things, to facilitate and increase the security of workers who live in one Nordic country but work in another. We propose that they be examined by reviewing the Nordic countries' joint agreements concerning work. Today, for example, there is a lack of information about those who move across the Nordic borders for work, which is needed to strengthen the importance of cross-border cooperation. Therefore, we in the Left Party propose bilateral agreements on border statistics between the Nordic countries, so that those who work in another Nordic country can also be seen in their own country's statistics. Another proposal we have put forward is that the Nordic governments should review the Nordic Double Taxation Convention. Madam President, I would like I hope that the municipalities that contribute to our energy supply, mineral consumption, food and production will feel that the values needed to create a common society are present locally – and that they have the power to influence them. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation 13.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1283	Madam President, I would like In large parts of our elongated country, the country store is the heart of the countryside and so much more than just a store. In addition to school, it is perhaps the most important function for a society to live. A grocery store is not just a place where you go to buy your food; it is very often the place where you can do postal errands, hand in the tip, get your medicine or get a delivery from Systembolaget, which is many miles from home. But it is perhaps mostly a social hub – Facebook, Instagram and other platforms in all honour, but we people want and need to meet other people. Right now, we need to be careful. We must keep our distance and avoid all forms of crowds, but that does not change the fact that we have innate need of community. The agricultural trade is a physical hub where you can get just this, under unplanned and very simple forms. That small talk that takes place in connection with the purchase is an incredibly important health care factor. In addition to being a water hole for Community-stricken people in sparsely populated areas, it is a very important factor for local business. Against this background, it is important that country merchants around Sweden get the opportunity to survive and continue to contribute to a living Sweden. Today, there are around 270 stores that are able to receive the special support established in 2015 for grocery stores in vulnerable and vulnerable areas. From the Christian Democrats' side, we want to set aside SEK 20 million more than the government to make this possible. We have debated this earlier in the autumn when we debated the budget. Madam President, I would like Basic public services should be easily accessible to everyone in the country, and I believe that there is a need to make it easier for authorities and municipalities to cooperate on this. A good way is to set up so-called service centres in connection with the local country store or other established gathering points in the rural communities. There are tasks that a country store can handle on behalf of the public, which more people should be aware of. In this way, the hub of the community's common life can become even stronger. In order to achieve a well-functioning service throughout the country, the interests of rural and industry organisations have important roles to play. In particular, municipalities and regions must see these opportunities and seize them. I therefore believe that the government should, on the one hand, review the regulatory framework to increase coordination between authorities and, on the other hand, improve the interaction between public and commercial actors in order to achieve a good public and commercial service throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Today, income from natural resources goes directly to the state, and municipalities only receive tax revenue from the labour income of residents. Today's model leads to rural municipalities being portrayed as beneficiaries that big city taxpayers hold under their arms. A clear formal link, combined with a redistribution from the municipalities where profits are generated, could make it clear to everyone that cities and countries need each other. This could also mean that local residents looked more positively at different types of projects to develop natural resources in the municipality. At the same time, there are problems in creating a situation where municipalities get completely different welfare conditions based on whether there is an extended river or there are minerals in the ground in that particular municipality. I am open to local residents getting a greater share of natural resources, but the issue needs to be examined in depth. We Christian Democrats believe that an investigation should be made into the pros and cons of a model in which the profits from Swedish natural resources are primarily allocated to the municipalities and from there redistributed according to a defined principle, rather than as at present where revenue goes to the state and the municipalities receive only tax revenue from the income of the residents. In this context, it is also worth studying, among other things, the Norwegian model, where some of the benefits from the use of the country's natural resources go directly to the municipalities. Madam President, I would like The social economy contributes to the development of society in a number of ways. In Sweden, various types of associations, peoples' movements, voluntary organisations, local groups and several long-term groups have played an important role in creating cohesion and identity both locally and regionally. We therefore believe that Parliament should make it clear to the government that all regions in the country need to work for the development of the social economy from a strategic perspective. I believe that Sweden must seize the opportunities offered by the rural development programme and other EU programmes to compensate different producers for the higher requirements that Sweden places in relation to what Community legislation requires. I believe that the management of EU aid needs to be made more efficient and that, among other things, they should take into account the natural differences that exist in different parts of Sweden. The support provided by the EU Structural Funds therefore needs to be more flat-rate and paid out through a responsible regional level. That being the case, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 1.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1294	Madam President, I would like This is really a strange debate. It is strange that one should have to debate that the whole country should live and have the conditions to live. Madam President, I would like If you think back in our history, from the beginning all people lived in Sweden, and in the whole world for that matter, in sparsely populated areas. From the beginning, there were no cities – no large concentrations of people, trade and everything that cities are. From the beginning, all people lived in sparsely populated areas. Actually, it's no stranger than that the mechanisms that have made, for example, the place where we are now, Stockholm, have become rich can also make the whole country rich and alive. It's about people of their own drive and creative power driving trade, companies and innovations and making sure to lift themselves and those around them in their part of the country, their small part of the big world. It is about people's own drive and creative power being unleashed. That is how the parts of the country have become cities, and that is how the rest of the country can grow even stronger than today. Because, Madam President, when I think of Sweden and of the whole of Sweden, I see an enormous potential for growth. Our whole country should live – not only survive, but live and prosper. Looking back in history and finding that we all lived in sparsely populated areas from the beginning, we can also note that the driving forces and the kind of potential that have made some parts of Sweden become cities, for example, exist throughout the country. That does not mean, Madam President, that everyone should live in cities, quite the opposite. We Liberals believe that all people must be able to live and live as they want. This means that our policy is about facilitating both for people living here in Stockholm and for people living in more sparsely populated parts of the country. Basically, the policy that makes this best is the policy that makes it easier for people to live in general. It is a policy that means that more people get more money left in their wallets to live for, with a tax burden that is more reasonable also for people with a little lower income than, for example, the senior managers who live in Stockholm may have. But it also means that the state needs to take greater responsibility in the municipal equalisation system and that we need to make it easier for entrepreneurship throughout the country and stop standing in the way of the creative power that exists throughout the country with complicated bureaucracy and unnecessary rules. If you think, Madam President, that the whole country should live and that it should be possible to choose how to live and live, it also means that we need to take responsibility for the existence of a well-functioning public service right everywhere, no matter where you happen to live. We have spoken earlier in the debate about the country merchants; it is a very important issue for the Liberals too. We have, among other things, a reservation that deals with the role of the country merchants as agents. There is a great potential in being able to support the country merchants. I would like to endorse our reservation number 15, which deals with a greater grasp of the whole of regional policy – to ensure that the whole country lives. Madam President, I would like I started by saying that it is a bit sad that we need to have this debate. It is sad that people feel that the country is divided in parts and that there is a big difference when it comes to how you see politics and how priority you are of politics. It shouldn't have to be like that. Just as a general economic, labour and fiscal policy is best for the whole country, the role of the policy must also be to pay equal attention to all parts of the country. Madam President, I would like We need each other. That needs to be said, I think, in this debate. Sweden is not a country where rural areas need to be pitted against big cities or sparsely populated parts of the country. Sweden is a country where all people who go to work or who have an idea that runs innovation or a company and all the people who are involved in our construction of this country are helped, no matter where you live. People who work in urban occupations have sometimes been mocked. I know that Hanif Bali, the Moderate, once tweeted about when he was in a LKAB mine or something like that and met a person there who said: Do you smell it? It's the smell of real bnp. We do not sit here and make websites for each other, as you do in Stockholm. But, Madam President, the thing is that the whole country should live, and the whole country's parts live off each other. If LKAB hadn't had good website makers, who might be sitting in Stockholm doing websites for each other – what do I know? "You couldn't have sold your iron and steel to the whole world. Then there would not have been as much work created where the mines are. But if the people who work to break iron ore and make iron had not done so, they would not have been able to sit and make websites for each other in Stockholm. That is the whole question. If the whole country is to live, all the parts of the country must be helped together. And, Madam President, our policy is about this very thing: to see all parts and make sure that it is possible to live in all parts of the country and to provide all the conditions, with a fairer tax environment and better business rules and by ensuring that there is public service throughout the country. Then we can help each other to make Sweden a better place.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1307	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report NU14 on regional development. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions. Exercise requests address the localisation and organisation of government agencies, commercial and public services, the reversion of funds and production values from natural resources and a great deal more. The objective of regional development policy as decided in the 2019 Budget Bill is development power with enhanced local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development throughout the country. How do we achieve that? Yes, there is, of course, no simple answer to that question, and it should also be added that we in this House feel differently about what will actually solve the problem. In this report we can see that we have different points of view. In these times it is particularly important to maintain service, care, school and care throughout the country. In order for Sweden to develop, a strong society and functioning well-being are needed. It's the root of society. We are currently in a pandemic that affects us all, in everyday life and at work. We can see this in this House, for example, when we have started to use masks. This is, of course, both positive and negative. It seems that we have all been out in nature much more than we usually are, because that's the way we can meet really safely. This has meant that the whole of Swedish nature has been discovered by many more and that all our natural areas around the country have been visited much more. That, of course, is something we must take advantage of and develop in the future. I can also say that I don't think grilled sausages are so fancy anymore. Now I have bought a real wokpan that you can put directly on the fire to cook other than sausage. Paella went perfectly well to make over open fire in that forehead. Madam President, I would like Last summer, the European Council agreed on the EU's long-term budget and crisis response. An important element is the React-EU, which will be used to strengthen the economy and employment in the regions most affected by the economic impact of the ongoing pandemic. This is about 534 million in 2021 – 2023, and the focus is green and digital conversion. The money will be used to strengthen the business sector's start-up and transition. A mix of advice, coaching, financial support and other actions aimed at SMEs should be offered according to regional needs. Different regions will need different actions and tools, depending on how they have been affected and the industries involved. The Swedish Agency for Growth has now announced that the first two calls will go out to the regions. One is a broad call with support to strengthen companies' adaptability, and the other is a call to the regions to support business development checks. React-EU will thus be an important part of regional development in the coming years. In some parts of Sweden, the Fund for a Fair Conversion, JTF, will also be important. The Swedish Agency for Growth has already submitted territorial conversion plans for Norrbotten and Gotland, and now plans for Västra Götaland are being developed, focusing on refineries and chemical industries, and for Västerbotten County with a focus on metal industry. The funds shall be allocated to installations with high emissions in order to reduce emissions. The whole of Sweden has to make the transition. Madam President, I would like Support for commercial and public services has been successful. We can see that the distance to the nearest store has decreased, and the assessment is that the aid has slowed down the closure of small grocery stores in rural areas. It is an important support. Regional development is happening throughout our country, both in urban and rural areas. In the exercise, the motionaries point out that it is important for government authorities to have a responsibility in regional development work, and that is true. Here, a number of authorities have been tasked with providing the necessary assistance to the regions, and they will take account of regional development strategies in their work. The placement of state authorities is always a major issue, quite rightly. The Parliamentary Rural Committee noted that 10 000 jobs had been transferred from all over Sweden to Stockholm for a ten-year period. The return of government agency jobs began during the last term of office. The government has made more than 20 decisions on location in other parts of the country. More than 2,000 jobs are now available in the country. It is important to have a state presence throughout the country, both in suburbs and in rural areas. Here, of course, the government service agencies are important. But we need to do more. The investigator Sven-Erik-Erik Österberg has now proposed 15 new offices in rural and rural areas in his final report of the DS 2020 study:29 on 25 March 2020, 2 – 3 additional offices of medium size in urban areas and 11 offices in vulnerable areas. So this is not about relocations, but about new offices. I note that two of the offices proposed in the investigation could end up in Kronoberg County, Tingsryd and Växjö. He also suggests more interaction between local service offices and certain authorities. The investigation is now being referred. Madam President, I would like The committee has on several occasions rejected proposals for the recovery of funds and production values from water and wind power, as well as certain other natural resources, on the grounds that the principles of state budget management should apply. We have a cost equalisation system that has the function of smoothing the differences between municipalities and regions. The cost compensation system has just been investigated, as Peter Helander said here in the speaker's chair, and an amendment entered into force as late as 1 January 2020. It is a change that is of great importance in these municipalities and regions in order to provide a level playing field for the provision of well-being to the inhabitants of the whole country. As I said, in these times we need a strong solidarity society in which we actually stick together and help each other.
i-a29208f460ec67d3-1321	Madam President, I would like A strong regional development policy is needed. A commitment to rural areas is needed, the debate is needed and knowledge is needed. In recent years, Sweden has taken important steps forward in coherent rural policy. Five years ago, the Committee on Rural Policy, which made 75 proposals, was set up. Two years ago, Parliament decided on the long-term objectives of rural policy. All proposals from the Rural Committee were discussed in the Government's current proposal. Only weeks after the Parliament's decision had been taken, the first assignments were then given to the authorities. The balanced assessment that the government is making today, five years after this broad work was kicked off, is that about two thirds of the proposals have been implemented. This assessment differs greatly from the conclusion drawn by All of Sweden, which states that only three out of 75 proposals have been implemented. That's pretty startling, isn't it? Can it really be that bad? Does the whole of Sweden have the right life? Madam President, I would like The simple answer is no. The whole of Sweden will live has asked its questions to the actors mentioned in the Rural Committee's proposal and not to those who have received assignments after preparation of the proposals in the Government and the Riksdag. Therefore, the whole of Sweden should live evaluation is wrong. I would like the whole of Sweden to live to have read the Government proposal as a whole, read all the opinions of the referral bodies and made its evaluation in the right way. The whole of Sweden will live has a very important role in the public debate – a voice that the countryside listens to. The Government has taken good advantage of the work of the Rural Committee. Of course, the work must continue, and I look forward to an even stronger regional policy. At the moment, we are working fully in Parliament on the forthcoming agricultural policy. We had a visit from the Swedish Board of Agriculture to the Committee on Environment and Agriculture about 12 hours ago. Yeah, this is a long day's work. One request of the Rural Committee was to strengthen the Leader method. It is also proposed in the strategic plan developed by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The fact that decisions have not been taken in the past is because Brexit has shifted the EU's budgetary processes and that the new CAP, i.e. the new agricultural policy, will start in two years' time. The Green Party is convinced that rural areas will be the engine of climate change and green recovery. Now it is important that it is combined with an economic development that strengthens the whole of Sweden. A greater focus in rural policy must be on fair climate change, energy, food production, living nature and the circular economy. The Green Party wants to invest in good transport, rail transport and public transport in small towns and rural areas. We want to streamline transport, develop electric charging for vehicles and promote biogas, sustainable fuels and new sustainable transport solutions. Road maintenance of even small roads must be improved while high-quality broadband must be available throughout the country. It should be self-evident to be able to live, work and run businesses throughout the country. Come with me to Storuman! Northern Norrland is the most sparsely populated area in Sweden and has a large proportion of older residents. This gives the rural medical centre in Region Västerbotten a unique opportunity to test medical devices and new ways of working in a population structure that will be in many densely populated cities in 25 years' time. Demographic developments, where fewer people of working age are to meet the increased need for care in an ageing population with reduced tax bases, can be solved by, among other things, providing healthcare as close to the patient as possible. When a person can not travel 200 km to a hospital and instead at home can visit a so-called community room – where there are equipment needed to carry out tests and connect to their doctor – the quality of life is improved. Service is improving. Health care is improving. And the environment is improving. Developing AI and digitalisation in the service of society is necessary. Regional policy also needs to focus much more on such solutions. The Green Party wants to strengthen the local economy by allowing those living or living in sparsely populated areas to benefit from the green tax exchange. We believe that the property tax on wind turbines and existing hydroelectric power plants should be allocated to the municipality or region where the power plants are located. The municipalities in Norrland take very great responsibility for the base of Sweden's energy supply, but the tax revenues from both wind power and hydroelectric power go directly into the treasury. The Green Party wants to change that. We want them to be returned to the villages. There is currently a powerful energy transition in Sweden. Renewable energy sources are expanding at record speed. For the Green Party, it is important for renewable energy to strengthen the local economy. However, the Green Party believes that a rural epoch, as it is designed for hydroelectric power, is the wrong way to go for wind power. We want to encourage and support the expansion of wind power, which is why we do not want to impose a charge on operators. Madam President, I would like All of Sweden will live. Through strategic investments in public services in sparsely populated areas, the conditions for private business activities are also growing. Public investment can actually look a little different. One area I would like to highlight is the protection of nature and, in particular, national parks, which provide enormous conditions for tourism, outdoor life and local and regional development. Increased nature tourism is positive in several ways. It helps to increase the public's knowledge and interest in nature and the environment. Especially now, under the coronapandemy, many find their way into nature. But it also contributes to the local tourism industry, where businesses linked to housing, food and activities can grow. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and regional managers of national parks take a positive view of natural tourism actors who can contribute to the experiences of the national parks. Biodiversity and economic development are really linked here. Regional development policy also includes actions for sustainable regional growth in the form of project activities and regional business support and payments from the European Regional Development Fund. We have debated these issues. Recently, we had a debate on the Structural Funds partnerships in this House. Then I highlighted the new role of the Regional Fund: not only to highlight climate change but also the circular economy. I hope that future debates on regional policy will be much more about green recovery, about how the economy is growing, how rural areas are flourishing and how we can develop with better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises operating in rural areas and in small towns. I hope for debates where we promote food crafts, local production, ecotourism and small-scaleness and where we actually end up blacking out Sweden and development and looking brightly at the future.
