i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-10	Mr. Old President! The use of environmental taxes has increased over time, both to steer people's behaviour in the direction desired by the majority of politicians and to increase government tax revenues. The concept of green tax exchange has also become increasingly important. It is meant to lower taxes on, for example, labour and instead raise taxes on what it considers to be environmentally harmful. In theory, this has been considered to be a level playing field in the state finances. However, many have objected to the fact that this is wrong and not sustainable in the long run. If people change their behaviour in the way politicians want, tax revenue will automatically fall and there will be a shortage in the state budget. The Swedish National Audit Office has now examined the issue, and in their report they recommend the Government to develop the method for calculating tax revenues in the long term so that it better captures the development of climate and energy. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that government revenues from energy and carbon dioxide taxes will decrease in the future with current tax rules and points out that this trend is not visible in the government's long-term calculations. The Government states in its response that they share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the method used to calculate revenues from environmental and energy taxes in the long term can be improved, but that the overestimation of tax revenues is not of the scale that the assessment of fiscal sustainability is necessarily wrong. On the moderate side, we do not agree with this. It is clear that the government is lacking in assessing the revenues from environmental taxes in the long and short term. A recent example is the new tax on plastic carrier bags introduced by the government which, except for the fact that it has no clear environmental benefits and is poorly designed, has brought only a fraction of the revenue that the government had counted on the state budget. There is no escape from the fact that income from a stable tax base can be replaced by an eroding tax base in the longer term, which is the idea of green tax exchange. In the green tax exchange that the government and its co-operative parties are implementing, increased environmental taxes will be exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by at least SEK 15 billion. In addition, the January agreement will increase the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues. There is a difference between calculating and forecasting revenues from a relatively stable tax base, such as labour, compared to revenues from an eroding tax base, for example when environmentally harmful activities are taxed. It creates risks for public finances to make this kind of tax shift unless it is combined with, for example, expenditure reductions or other revenue enhancements. It is essential that environmental taxes are concentrated on being environmentally responsible. If environmental taxes gradually form an increasingly significant part of government revenue, they create risks to public finances because the whole idea of environmental taxes is precisely that what is taxed should be phased out. It is essential that taxes and changes in taxes are evaluated, especially when there is uncertainty as to the expected impact of the tax change. The chemical tax is an example where this has not been done. The Swedish Parliament already announced to the Government during the Parliamentary Session 2017/ 18 that the chemical tax will be evaluated. This is still not fully fulfilled. The chemical tax is a harmful excise duty which has no environmental benefit. It has been introduced mainly on electronics products in Sweden and become a new heavy burden that an entire industry is forced to handle with new extensive costs and administration as a result. The chemical tax has also been criticised for only bringing in a limited proportion of the revenue originally estimated by the government. The tax and its negative consequences are not yet fully evaluated in accordance with what the Riksdag has asked the Government to do. This should have happened and could have been an important basis when the government is now planning and preparing a new harmful chemical tax in the form of a tax on clothing and shoes. In conclusion, the Moderates believe that the government must take seriously the issue of replacing stable tax bases with eroding tax bases. We therefore propose that the Riksdag agrees with the motion that the Government should take measures to better consider and forecast how revenues from climate, environment and energy, including the government's green tax exchange, affect public finances in the short and long term and announce this to the Government. We also suggest that the Riksdag agrees that the Government needs to more closely monitor and evaluate the effects of the taxes imposed with environmental management motives as well as present more comprehensive impact assessments of risks and effects of green tax exchange and announce this to the Government. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-25	Mr. Old President! In the letter that we have at Parliament's table today, the Government gives its view on the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in connection with the Authority's review of environmental taxes and the tax revenues generated by them. Environmental taxes are designed in such a way that, when they fulfil their purpose, tax revenues are reduced. It is precisely the accuracy of the tax projections that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed, and one of the recommendations that the Authority gives is that the method for calculating tax revenues in the long term should be developed so that it better captures the development of climate and energy. It is written that the government's calculations risk overestimating the annual tax revenues and that in such cases the Riksdag is given a false picture of the sustainability of public finances. The Swedish National Audit Office also states that there is a risk that the safety margin in the Government's sustainability assessment will decrease. The government, for its part, seems to agree half-by-half with the Swedish National Audit Office, but with the blunder that the overestimation of tax revenues is not so great that one needs to worry about the sustainability of fiscal policy. It is here somewhere that the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government's basic view of the tax projections differ. The government thus disputes an expert authority whose entire raison d'être is based on identifying risks and proposing measures. Instead of recognising the problem formulation – that the tax projections jeopardise the sustainability of fiscal policy – you shrug your shoulders and say that that will probably work out. It is precisely this mentality that the Swedish Democrats are critical of. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the Government has overestimated annual tax revenues by approximately half a percent of GDP by 2050, which corresponds to approximately SEK 25 billion measured by today's GDP and monetary value. It is clear that this affects confidence in the tax system. I read an interesting headline on the same theme in the Swedish business press last week: When the chemical tax exceeds the value of the product, it becomes virtually impossible to sell it. ..................................................... We are not going to go into taxes in detail today, but I note that the green tax exchange is full of logical twists, such as this one, which undermines confidence in the tax system. Moreover, and more importantly, it is risky to make the financing of Swedish welfare dependent on uncertain tax bases. The Group of Experts on Studies in Public Economy writes about the green tax shift in its report that it is even more difficult to find robust public sector funding through tax exchange. Interpret me correctly: it is in the nature of things that revenue from eroding tax bases, such as environmental taxes, is more difficult to forecast, so I am not complaining about a lack of skills. My point is that despite all the resources available today, it is still not possible to forecast better. In that situation, then, let us increase the share of environmental taxes in total tax revenue, as the government does, is like saying, let us increase the uncertainty of tax revenues even more. What will be the impact on the financing of justice, health care and education if tax revenue is overestimated by a factor of 10? This was the case with the plastic bag tax, which, according to government budgeted forecasts, would bring in SEK 2.1 billion but which in fact brought in just under SEK 175 million. Is it with this uncertainty that we should safeguard public finances? Is it with taxes on Playstation, plastic bags and refrigerators that the Swedish welfare will be built? Mr. Old President! If this is the way the government chooses for Sweden, the least we can demand is that the government reflect on the risks involved. The moderate exercise highlights a number of important points that the government should take with it in the future work. Number one is to include projections of how public finances are affected by the green tax shift in the short term. Number two is to evaluate the risks of the green tax shift. I think it is perfectly reasonable for Parliament to ask the government in the light of the uncertainty that it means working with this kind of tax base. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-40	Mr. Old President! The Swedish tax system is, of course, the foundation of the Swedish welfare society. Tax should be paid according to viability with the aim of financing our common welfare – by each one according to his/her ability, to each one as needed. But taxes may also be justified, for example, in correcting non-functioning market forces, not paying for what is being destroyed by the common. They can also be used to speed up the pace of climate change by having a controlling effect. I think most people agree that it should be easy to choose the right way. It is natural and even desirable that the revenue from environmental taxes should be reduced, at least if it is a specific environmental tax, because the whole purpose of the tax is to contribute to the transformation and thus to our lifestyles so that we have a greener society. It is also important that we, as decision-makers, get accurate assessments of how revenues from environmental taxes evolve in the long term and how this affects our public finances and thus the possibility of financing our common welfare. The background to today's debate is that the Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the government has taken sufficient account of developments in climate and energy in its assessment of the long-term sustainability of public finances. It is an important review that contributes to a better understanding of how we should design and evaluate our tax system and its purpose. This becomes more urgent the more we have of this kind of taxes. The overall conclusion of the report is that the government has not taken sufficient account of climate and energy developments in the assessment of the long-term sustainability of public finances. In the 21st century, we have seen that government revenues from energy and carbon taxes have decreased trendically, and as society continues to switch, revenues from these tax bases are also projected to decrease. There is therefore a risk that the government can give a false picture of the sustainability of public finances, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. Based on this, the Swedish National Audit Office makes two recommendations to the Government. The first is that the method of calculating long-term tax revenues should be developed to capture developments in climate and energy. The second recommendation is that the Swedish Energy Agency should be given the task of regularly developing a main scenario of Sweden's energy system in the long term. The Government's letter shows that it agrees with the first part of the criticisms or recommendations and that it intends to change the method currently used to calculate the income from environmental and energy taxes so that it better captures the fact that the tax base from these taxes is expected to shrink. As regards the second recommendation, the Government considers that the current scenarios of the Swedish Energy Agency provide a sufficient basis for future sustainability calculations. We are facing major challenges in the future. We have an ageing population that will need care and care. We need to speed up the green transition and reduce emissions while creating opportunities for the green jobs of the future. Social security needs to be strengthened with continued contributions to the police and the whole legal chain and new investments to prevent young people from getting involved in criminal settings. All this will cost. It's as simple as that. It is all the more important that we then follow up and review the development of public finances. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-51	Mr. Old President! Åsa Westlund points out all the important things in her speech and how important it is to follow up and so on, and then she concludes by calling for rejection of the motion that says just that. I think it is a problem that the government takes the criticism very lightly and dismisses it. As Dennis Dioukarev mentioned, the plastic bag tax is a good example. It had budgeted revenue of well over 2 billion, and so it was 175 million. If we have many environmental taxes that have this development, there will be a huge gap in the state budget over time, especially if the government pursues its objective of increasing the proportion of environmental taxes and shifting from, for example, labour taxes to environmental taxes. Then we risk getting a big hole in our finances. I therefore find it strange that this issue is not taken more seriously. I also pointed out the chemical tax. There the Riksdag already said during the previous parliamentary term that the matter would be properly evaluated, but this has not been done even though a lot of terms have now passed since the Parliament took the decision. I would like to ask Åsa Westlund, who is chairman of the Riksdag Finance Committee, who is responsible in the Riksdag for the state budget and finances: Does she think it reasonable that the government does not carry out what the Riksdag has decided and which is of great importance for achieving stable public finances?
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-55	Mr. Old President! That was a long list of comments. It should be borne in mind that the report to which we are calling for approval includes the recognition by the government that the method used by the government for a very long time to calculate the income from environmental and climate taxes does not really take into account the success of these taxes, after all, in directing people's actions. Therefore, the Government intends to change this. As a social democrat, I can certainly agree that it is not a way forward to completely replace stable tax bases with these kinds of taxes, but we need continued stable and strong tax revenues from stable tax revenues. At the same time, I think Jan Ericson agrees with me that you should not charge too much tax. If you can take in taxes in the form of climate and environmental taxes, which help to finance welfare, it is clear that you should use a certain amount of it to lower the tax where it may be possible to do so, namely on labour. As for the announcement, I'm not the government. Jan Ericson is diligent in setting up interpellations, so he may well come back in such a forum to pressure the government on this. I can only say that I think it would have been easier for the government to live up to the announcements quickly and effectively if they had been a little more prioritised and limited than the amount of announcements that Jan Ericson has been involved in pushing forward from the Riksdag.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-58	Mr. Old President! The fact that I have contributed to many announcements over the years has an explanation: It is simply that we are not satisfied with the government's policy and that there has been a majority in the parliament to make changes. Sometimes the government has carried out what Parliament has decided, but too often it has not done so. Then it is clear that there will be new announcements and new votes. If the government followed the Riksdag, which still decides, there would be fewer announcements. The government itself is responsible for this, I think. It is certainly important that environmental taxes have an environmental impact. That is what I said in my speech. This is what should be the main purpose of environmental taxes, not having them as a tax base. There was also another piece here, namely what environmental taxes actually have for the rest. It is one thing that they can be environmental, but they can also have a lot of other disadvantages and be purely harmful. The plastic bag tax is a good example. It has put away the legs for environmentally friendly production of plastic bags. I guess that wasn't really meant to be, but that's the effect it's had. We have companies that have had to phase out their business because of the plastic bag tax, even though they make environmentally friendly bags. It is a complete hole in the head to have such legislation. The chemical tax has had similar effects. It has benefited the import of electronics, to avoid the tax, and has knocked out stores that sell goods in Sweden. It is necessary not only to look at the importance of taxes for the state's financial importance but also at their social significance. That is why I think our reservation is good. It is both about evaluating the impact and the financial aspect of it. I can only regret it. I think the government is taking this a little too lightly. It is actually quite serious criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-62	Mr. Old President! I thank Jan Ericson for the opportunity to say once again that the government is taking this seriously and intends to change the calculation model. It may not be easy for a moderate to distinguish between what is an environmental tax with the aim of reducing litter and what is a climate-driven tax. The plastic bag tax is a tax primarily aimed at removing litter in our seas. This is something that the Moderates often stand here and talk about, but they have very few suggestions on how to deal with the plastic in the oceans. This is an example of how we make concrete policies out of it. It's not a climate-related tax. The environmental bags Jan Ericson talks about is above all a good thing for the climate, but here is the purpose of getting rid of the litter, which can be done with different plastic bags. Here you can see that a big change has taken place in many Swedes' everyday lives, where you suddenly no longer have the same need for plastic bags. It is very good and also a climate gain, but above all it is an environmental benefit. But to be honest, it sounds a little bit like the Moderates only see disadvantages with all forms of environmental taxes when it comes to it. Then I would like to remind the Moderates that the main idea behind your climate and environmental policy is that it is the polluter who will pay. Yet, once it comes to the end, it is always wrong and must always be evaluated a little more and always criticised. If so, what is left of moderate climate and environmental policy? Jan Ericson can't answer that. But I think the voters can see transparency.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-67	Mr. Old President! I am standing here on the basis of the bill dealing with temporary tax reductions on labour income in order to deal with increased labour costs as a result of the pandemic. The proposal means that a tax reduction of between SEK 60 000 and SEK 500 000 can be obtained for work income – slightly higher up to SEK 300 000, and then there is an escalation. This leads to an increase in marginal tax on income below average. The tax reduction is given with a fixed amount. The percentage will be the largest for people with low income, but it also hits medium income. The grant can only be received after a declaration has been submitted, which means that it will be paid out at the earliest in the second quarter of 2022. Mr. Old President! There are other groups that would need tax reductions, such as the unemployed, pensioners and people with sickness or activity benefits. The proposal can be said to be disadvantageous for pensioners, who will now again pay more tax in relation to the professionals. It is particularly unfortunate that, just when the tax differentials between pensions and labour have been overcome, the tax will be increased again and a new pensioner tax will be introduced. The pension is a deferred income. What the government does through the proposal is to increase the gap between earned income and other income. One group that has been particularly affected by the pandemic is the pensioners. The Public Health Agency considered that 70-plusers would isolate themselves as they were considered fragile older people. They wouldn't go shopping for food and visit shops. However, getting food brought home is not free of charge. All over 70 years were considered a homogeneous group – no individualization. Mr. Old President! Many pensioners lost their life partner during the pandemic. And since most men died, women were placed in an almost impossible situation. Many elderly people have given up home help during the pandemic because they met too many new ones. There were up to 14 different people who came during a 14-day period. Those who have lived in special accommodations were trapped and put at an extra risk as they became lonely and depressed. They were not allowed to meet their loved ones. Many died alone. Mr. Old President! Poor pensioners are a group that the government should have given tax reductions. It certainly does not feel good to see older ladies with hat and blush on the cheeks go and pick cans to get the everyday economy together. Of the 700 000 Swedes who receive a guarantee pension, 300 000 are poor pensioners in the EU. Of these, 200,000 are women. The risk of having a disposable income that can lead to a risk of poverty increases with age. The risk is greatest for women over 75 years of age. Every third has low disposable income as a result of having been at home with children, working part-time or caring for relatives when society has not been sufficient. Every other woman over the age of 65 lives alone. Among men of the same age, one in four live alone. The ageism that rules in the country does not make it easy for older people to get a new job. What do the referrals say? Many doubt the accuracy of the proposal. According to the Public Health Agency, the proposal risks increasing the differences between the economic situation of different groups, which can be detrimental to equal health in the population. The Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation points out that increased domestic work can lead to a reduction in household expenditure and considers that, from an incentive point of view, targeted grants to those with the lowest income would have been more cost-effective. We Swedish democrats believe that everyone with low income should have received a tax reduction, regardless of the income involved – pension, activity support, etc. The same income should provide the same tax reduction. Rather, the bill should have made an effort to stimulate households more and ensure that they receive tax reductions. I demand that the proposal be rejected and that the reservation be approved.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-84	Mr. Old President! The Coronapendemy has hit the whole world. An important measure to reduce the spread of infection has been to keep a distance, if possible work from home and gladly travel by other means than public transport. However, it is far from everyone who has been able to work from home. Healthcare personnel have had to be in place to save lives, and public transport has continued to go. Many LO members in addition to those working in health care and public transport have had to be in place because both production and society have had to continue to function. Adjustments that have been required for changing modes of travel to work and for domestic work may have resulted in increased labour costs. In order to compensate for increased labour costs resulting from the pandemic and as a stimulus to the economic cycle, the Government proposes a temporary tax reduction for 2021 and 2022. The government considers it important that the measure is clearly targeted at people with low and medium incomes. Therefore, the tax reduction applies to persons with income between SEK 60 000 and SEK 500 000. The tax reduction is given with a fixed amount and is therefore the largest percentage for people with low income. In addition, it is proposed to phase-in work income in excess of SEK 60 000 per year and to grant the tax reduction in full at SEK 240 000. Then there is an escalation in income of 300 000 – 500 000 SEK. Mr. Old President! There is an unfair pensioner's tax. But the Swedish Democrats have never been interested in removing it. The tax gap was introduced by the Alliance through divided income taxation and job tax deductions, not by us. We Social Democrats have been pushing all along to remove this gap. We're about to finish. Soon the unfair pensioner tax will be removed. And it is certainly not the credit of the Swedish democrats, but rather the opposite. The Swedish democrats' newfound concern for pensioners did not exist when they betrayed pensioners, for example in 2015, when they voted with the budgets of M, KD, L and C, thereby keeping the gap with the pensioner tax rather than reducing it, as it would have done with our S, MP and V budgets. As late as autumn 2019, the Swedish Democrats chose to support the M-KD budget rather than pensioners. When the right-wing budget went through with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the elimination of the tax gap was further delayed. Now the Swedish Democrats are saying that it would be unfortunate to have a tax reduction that does not include pensioners. They are simply not credible when they stand here and say so, because even in their recent draft budget they do not have a particularly serious proposal to remove the tax gap. Should the Swedish Democrats' budget motion be supported, it would only lead to a new tax gap for sick-pensioners and for people with disabilities, just when we Social-Democrats have put forward a proposal to remove the existing one. Mr. Old President! The temporary tax reduction for low- and middle-income earners is quite different from a job tax deduction. It is a temporary tax reduction linked to increased labour costs due to the pandemic. As has been said, it is temporary and should not mean any increased differences between the economic situation of different groups or create a new tax gap other than on a temporary basis. The government has done everything it can to deal with the effects of the pandemic. Some of this has involved support for businesses. If you go into the Entrepreneurs website you can see a long list of all the support companies have been able to get during the pandemic – in fact 14 different. No one was protesting there. Why should support for employees now be so terrible? Perhaps the supposed Labour Party The Swedish Democrats can explain to the LO members who have had to get to work every working day during the pandemic. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-95	Mr. Old President! I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-68cd4e05ecfabe0a-96	Mr. Old President! I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-J1iecBedUYGZbNby3KFXk7	Mr. Old President! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
