i-cb1a3830ca75a684-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 1. Consumer policy is not easy. There are many laws that you as a consumer should keep track of, and it is not always easy to know what your obligations and rights are. The proposal is that banks and other traders offering financial advice are obliged to compensate the consumer if the consumer has lost money because the advisor has been careless or has deliberately caused a pure damage to property. The current legislation does not provide for the trader to pay full compensation for the damage in such a situation, and this is what the government now wants to change. This means, for example, that compensation for loss of profit must also be paid. The Swedish Democrats share the government's assessment. It is positive that consumers should now be able to be compensated for the loss of profit in connection with financial advice that intentionally or through negligence has caused harm to the consumer. But there are some problems. First of all, it must be proved that an injury has occurred and that it has been caused intentionally or negligently, the so-called culpa rule. As a consumer, problems can already be encountered when it comes to demonstrating that the advice was outside the usual standards, that the damage could have been prevented and that the advisor realised the risk of harm. It is in accordance with the principles of damages law that the injured party, i.e. the consumer, must prove that the other party has caused the damage and prove the extent of the damage. This is where we get to the really tricky. If pure damage to property is proven to have occurred, how can the consumer prove that the loss of profit has occurred and what type of loss of profit is involved? For example, if I have shares in a company and get the advice to sell them and buy other shares, is it the profit I would have received if I had kept my original shares when the damage occurred? Or, rather, is it a promised win that is not fulfilled? If so, how can I prove that a certain return was promised? Of course, an unserious adviser does not include this in the documentation. Or do the government's proposals relate to both of these scenarios? Mr President, I would like to What can be seen is that, despite the government's stated objective of clarifying the situation, the situation for consumers will remain unclear. It is precisely clear what is missing from the Government's proposal, and it should be specified more specifically what kind of loss of profit is meant and how evidence of it is to be done. It is also important to point out that, at this stage, the consumer is in a great loss of knowledge, which, of course, makes it even more difficult to prove his or her right. We must protect consumer protection and strengthen consumers' rights. Then it is not good enough with unclear proposals where much again is left to the courts to interpret. In view of this, I hope that the government will shortly come back with more clear answers on the matter, so that there will be no doubt whatsoever about when and how a consumer will be compensated for a damage caused. I think that Sweden's consumers are entitled to this.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-22	Mr President, I would like to In a well-functioning free market, free individuals should be able to take responsibility for their own actions. At the same time, legislation must protect consumers from being misled by companies using dishonest practices to sell goods or services. Banks and other institutions providing financial advice have a particularly strong position in society. Consumers generally have high confidence in banks, and they almost see the bank as an authority rather than a company. Even the simplest financial assets, such as corporate bonds and shares, are complex, and deep knowledge is needed to fully understand their consequences and risks. This gives the banks a great deal of power. There is therefore a need for strong legislation that protects consumers in relation to the financial advisors, and we support that legislation. What lies behind decisions here today is the design of the damages to which the victim of reckless advice is entitled. Unlike in the past, loss of profit is also proposed to be part of the damages. We have concerns about the effects of that proposal. Firstly, there is a risk that greater liability for financial advisors may affect consumers in the form of higher prices. Secondly, as many consultation bodies have pointed out, very few consumers are already getting the right idea in this type of dispute. This may make it even more difficult for consumers to prove their rights. It is likely to be difficult to find reasonable levels of potential loss of profit, especially in low- and zero-interest environments. There is also a risk that the costs of these disputes may be even higher. Mr President, I would like to All investments are associated with risk. It must continue to be clear that the investor of financial instruments is responsible for his own losses. We therefore believe that liability for damages should normally not include loss of profits. This is matched by option one in the memorandum on which the bill is based. However, a difference from the proposal in the memorandum is that loss of profit should be replaced in situations where unserious advice has included pledges of a certain guaranteed return on the amount invested. It is necessary to maintain an effective and strong level of consumer protection with clear consequences for rogue advice. I believe that the legislation should be clarified in accordance with what has been said that loss of profit should not be included. I therefore call for reservation 2 to be accepted in the report, which means that the government should come back with a proposal for amendments to the provision in question. For the time being in this House, I am not in favour of reservation 3, in which we propose a declaration that the government should have an investigation into how it might be easier for the consumer to distinguish financial advice from the sale of financial instruments. However, we still see a need for this, as advice and sales often take place at the same time and since it can be difficult for the individual to distinguish the two.
i-NWUy2HZXnTuo4mKYRnEqfN	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is debating the CU15 report and the Government's proposal to amend the law on financial advice to consumers. The current law on financial advice to consumers came into force in 2004. It includes financial advice provided by a trader to a consumer, which includes the placement of the consumer's assets in financial instruments or life insurance policies with savings. This Act contains both commercial law rules on how advice is to be provided and civil law rules on the right to compensation itself. Today's legislation states that a trader who, through financial advice, intentionally or negligently causes the consumer a pure damage to property should make good this damage. However, the liability is limited to the so-called negative contractual interest. This means that the consumer should be placed in the same wealth situation as if the contract had never been concluded. The report before us today has a proposal that explicitly states in the legislative text that the trader should instead pay full compensation when this situation arises – that is, full compensation for the damage, which may also mean compensation for loss of profit. This is called a positive contract interest. Please note that investments are always associated with risks. This is not about compensating for ups and downs on the stock exchange, but about when financial advisors have acted recklessly or negligently and deviated from the standard in their work or assessments and this has led to harm to the consumer. Mr President, I would like to This is a consumer protection regulation that makes it clearer what the consumer's rights are in the legal text. In addition to protecting the consumer, it can have a positive effect in preventing careless advice. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 April this year. In view of what I have said, I support the proposal in the report.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-33	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservations and for the report's other proposals to be approved. I'm happy because it's time to talk about rentals! I think this is the highlight of the year in this House. It's a little extra to come here and talk to everyone about this. Housing policy is an area that, in my view, is generally given too little space in the political debate. For me, the dwelling is something that everyone should have and that of course we all need. In fact, that is also something to which we are all entitled. That is why I also think it is important to talk about housing policy as part of welfare policy. I think we should call housing policy the fourth leg of welfare. The government has delivered extremely well during this term of office. Among other things, housing money stands out – the investment aid that has meant that we have kept up the construction of sustainable apartments with reasonable rents. The state has also clearly begun to take responsibility for housing policy through investment support. This is a responsibility that I think has been too weak for many years. The link between housing money and the strong construction that took place last year is also clear. You can read in the business press about this, and there is also good evidence of it in the statistics. Is the money that was set aside in the first place sufficient? No, not at all. That is also why the framework for investment aid has been extended. I welcome this and hope that it will be possible to do so in the future. It is also proof that the January agreement provides for housing policy, because the January agreement is a crucial factor for us to have investment aid. Mr President, I would like to In the area of rental law, the black secondary market has been controlled. We have legislation that has prevented further unlawful renting of rental apartments, and it has, according to many landlords that I have talked to, had a very normative effect. Not a great many are judged, but it is clear that people's consciousness has changed. The landlords also feel that they have been given an important tool to use in discussions about the illegal subletting. Housing rights issues have been in strong focus lately, which is important and good. I am pleased to note here that the government has delivered politics. Minority protection has been strengthened. A record of the pledges is under way. The long-awaited rental register is also – speaking of registers – an issue that lies in the pipeline thanks to the January agreement. A new real estate brokers' law will also be discussed later this spring. A lot is also happening when it comes to the property. I would like to say something about the reservations we have. In the case of rental purchases, there is an announcement prepared. It's a pretty meaningless circus to keep making announcements about things it's working on. We have already talked in this House about the fact that there is some kind of announcement bingo going on, and then it is also understood that this is more about trying to make some kind of political statement and show the power of action from the opposition than it is about real politics. There are also excellent initiatives from the industry in the area of rent purchases. Both utilities and private companies have used rental models – some successful and some less successful. One can think about how well balanced it is that we in this House should enter and legislate when there is so much else that we need to focus on. The same applies to the owner's apartments. There is legislation in place for a long time and there has been a long-standing announcement. Then one can think about why this House should go in and push on a market in which market forces govern. The five parties who tend to think that the market should be allowed to rule do not care about it in this case. Consumers' preferences are not owner-occupied apartments; they prefer other forms of leasing. However, these five parties are not satisfied, which I think is a pity. I have nothing against owner apartments; it's absolutely okay. But the right-of-occupancy form is a form that stands strong in Sweden – the Swede likes his right-of-occupancy apartment. Then perhaps it is not primarily our task to push forward changes in the forms of leases, which this is all about. A final reflection, Mr President, would be that there is a great deal of work going on in the area of housing policy. I might wish it to happen even more, but it is not that things are not done. From building permit issues to housing rights issues and rental rights issues lies in the pipeline, where the government delivers policy on an ongoing basis. Unfortunately, I think it is a strange order that we are dealing with this report now. We all know that there are a number of investigations coming up towards the spring which will clarify much of the discussion that will take place here today. We will hear representatives of the opposition telling us exactly what it will be – they obviously know everything, whereas the government parties and the cooperation parties do not really know what it will be like. The investigations are far from complete; some are almost just beginning. Prophecies in here will be clear, and disasters will be painted because of these investigations. But it would have been better if we had taken this debate this summer, because then we actually know what is on the table. This is when it is time for a deep and important discussion on the future of rental right, right-of-occupancy and other housing policy areas.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-48	Mr President, I would like to Nine out of ten Swedes live in a municipality with a housing shortage, according to Boverket's housing market survey. The biggest problems are in the metropolitan regions, but there are basically problems throughout the country. In my hometown of Gothenburg, the municipality estimates that 4 000 – 5 000 new homes are needed annually to overcome the housing shortage. The housing shortage is a fundamental political failure that affects many different groups in society. It affects young people who want to establish themselves on the housing market. It allows families with children to live cramped because they cannot afford to move to anything larger. It locks older people in large villas, even though they really want to move to apartments. There is no easy solution to these problems, Mr President. On the contrary, several different things are required that can first together increase the function of the housing market. Since the elections two years ago, the government has been extremely passive. Perhaps it is telling that the minister responsible, Per Bolund, has today chosen to leave the post of Minister for Housing. Hopefully his successor, Märta Stenevi, will mobilise a slightly higher pace of reform – difficult would probably be something else. Mr President, I would like to I had hoped that the Minister herself would take the opportunity in today's debate to give a line speech in which she talks about her ambitions as Minister of Housing. I think all of us in here should hope that her absence in this House is not speaking also for her ambitions as Minister of Housing. It is positive that the Committee on Civil Liberties is today proposing to send two announcements to the government, because when the government stands passively, Parliament's proposals and runs the government ahead of it. Of course, today's two proposals for announcements will not solve the huge housing shortage in Sweden alone. But they are, Mr President, two important tools for increasing the possibility for citizens to find a form of housing that suits their needs. The first proposal concerns owner-occupied apartments. Simplified means that an apartment becomes a property of its own rather than, as a tenant-owner, being part of an economic association. Ownership apartments have existed in Sweden since 2009 but have so far only been possible when new apartments have been built. The possibility of transforming existing dwellings into owner-occupied dwellings will increase flexibility and choice in the housing market. The second proposal concerns the introduction of a rental purchasing system. Rent purchase means that the tenant after a certain period of time is given the right to purchase the apartment and is located in France, among other places. Rent purchases could lower the thresholds for young people, for example, to own their home. Unfortunately, we return here to the inaction of the government. In the spring of 2016 the Riksdag adopted announcements on both owner-occupied apartments and rent purchases, but the government has not yet come to the fore on any of these issues. It is symptomatic of the speed at which the government is moving on the issue of housing. It would have been interesting to hear, as I said, whether the newly appointed Minister for Housing intends to pick up Parliament's announcements or whether she will be as passive on the matter as her predecessors. However, since the newly appointed Government has chosen not to take part in the debate, any representative of one of the government parties should give an answer to the question. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, I would like to highlight three issues relating to the report. The first concerns renting as a whole. The leasing system currently in place favours the well-off with contacts and puts those outside the housing market at a disadvantage. Today you can pay the same rent in an outer suburb, Hisingen or in northeastern Gothenburg, as at Kungsportsavenyn, even though more people want to stay centrally. Today's system creates segregation and injustice. I wonder why the government parties are holding so hard on this principle. Is it because there are strong lobbies that require it? On the contrary, we Moderates want to see a gradual transition to more free renting within the framework of a broad housing policy agreement and in a way that does not have unreasonable consequences for those who currently live in a rental agreement. The second question, Mr President, concerns subletting. The housing market today, as I said, is characterised by a major housing shortage. At the same time, many residences are empty because their owners are not in need of them for a short period of time, perhaps because of work or studies elsewhere. Had the owner had more opportunity to sublet the dwelling, it could have been an important addition to the housing market. The government should therefore take measures to increase private lettings and return to the Riksdag with proposals for legislative changes. The third question, Mr President, concerns the availability of rental statistics. There are currently no public rental statistics that provide information on what is a reasonable rent level. Public statistics provided by an impartial actor reduce the risk of usury. At the same time, the market for rental of private homes would benefit from open and transparent information. We Moderates therefore believe that Boverket should be given the task of providing such statistics. This would substantially increase the functioning of the housing market. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, and for time to come, I only call for reservation 1 and otherwise for the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-66	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to start with our pleas. We support all our requests and reservations, but in order to save time at the vote, we only ask for reservation 22. So rental rights are the subject of the day. The Swedish Democrats have supported two of the announcements for which the committee now has a majority. We believe that increased opportunities for people to actually buy their apartments are good for everyone in the long term. Since not everyone has the necessary conditions to buy a home, it should be in the government's interest to have a so-called rental purchasing system, not least to provide more equal conditions for everyone. Rent-purchase systems are based either on the fact that the dwelling can be purchased at a predetermined price after a certain period of time or that part of the rent you pay goes to buying the dwelling, so that eventually you will have bought your apartment without having to apply for a loan at the bank or that you must have a large amount to pay in from the beginning. This type of rental should be very good for everyone, but above all for young people who have not yet entered the housing market. I would say that rental buying systems are not already a natural part of the Swedish housing market because of the government's unwillingness to have private ownership of housing in general. Already five years ago, the government received an announcement about rent purchases, but since then absolutely nothing has happened. The government parties themselves state in their reservation that they have not put together a directive for an investigation into a regulation for the rental of apartments. In other words, they haven't even figured out what to investigate yet. I find it regrettable that the government chooses to prioritise down something that could really give many who lack a great saving their first home. The reasoning that the measure would not conjure up more new homes is also a little limping. With regard to what is being built today, it is much easier for a housing company to obtain a justifiable economy in building housing rights and owner-occupied apartments, as they provide income more immediately after the home is completed. Building clean rental apartments is much more risky, especially in smaller municipalities such as my own municipality of residence Örkelljunga. I think renting is good for everyone involved. Then, of course, it is the opportunity that should exist. Renting is certainly not suitable for everyone, and I'm sure it's not suitable everywhere either. But it would definitely make it easier for young people to enter the housing market. And unlike the government parties and what they write in their reservation, we believe it is an urgent issue to bring young people into the housing market as well. Mr President, I would like to Now that we are on the subject of owning their apartment, I would also like to mention the second announcement, which points out that it should be possible to convert rental apartments into owner-occupied apartments. We have previously been told by Ola Möller that it is unnecessary and that people still choose residences, so why should we then have owner apartments. But the truth is that people usually can't choose owner-occupied apartments, because there are simply very few owner-occupied apartments in Sweden. And where they are, they are newly built and thus considerably more expensive than other apartments on the market. Then it is clear that those who are not very well-ordered would rather choose a right-of-occupancy apartment. There is even a previous study from 2012 that suggests what legislation should look like. But as with rent purchases, the government says that there are much more pressing problems in the housing market that they want to prioritise right now, and that is the case. There are many problems and many things that should be prioritised in the Swedish housing market, but it is unlikely that the government will solve these problems with or without the possibility of changing rental apartments into owner-occupied apartments. The huge lack of housing created by the government through its irresponsible reception of refugees, which has completely closed its eyes to the lack of housing and has instead suited the problems of the municipalities, will not be solved by ignoring announcements from the Riksdag. The housing shortage problems are remedied more by our municipalities' construction plans and planning work than by any freed-up service in Rosenbad. However, the municipalities must have room for breathing in order to catch up, and that has nothing to do with the proposals presented here today. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I note that we have many reservations, but unfortunately I am not in a position to go into all our proposals. But we will certainly have the opportunity to come back in other contexts and put forward our other proposals.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-78	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson says that it is not possible to build apartments in smaller municipalities. Therefore, I would like to ask Mikael Eskilandersson how the construction of a municipality like Älmhult is improved by removing investment support, as the Swedish democrats did when they were able to decide the budget. The investment aid enables the management of the K3 rules, i.e. the write-down. Can Mikael Eskilandersson tell the commons in Älmhult how they will not take the write-down that occurs when the investment support disappears?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-80	Mr President, I would like to Ola Möller has not listened to my speech at all. I did not say at all that it is not possible to build in small municipalities. It's going perfectly well. A lot is being built in my small municipality Örkelljunga. Both residential and rental apartments are built there. A lot is being built, and I don't think the investment support has affected the construction at all in my municipality of residence. The construction plans existed a long time before. What I said in my speech was that the reason why people choose the right-of-occupancy apartment is that it is built and there are very few owner-occupied apartments. In my municipality of residence, there are no owner-occupied apartments, only residential apartments and rental apartments. It is claimed that people opt out of owner-occupied apartments. However, if no owner-occupied apartments are built and no new owner-occupied apartments are added by converting rental apartments into owner-occupied apartments, there is no choice. When my daughter was going to get her first apartment, she had to search the market, and there were flats. She had to weigh buying a tenant-ownership apartment against renting a rental apartment. There were no ownership apartments on the market.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-85	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mikael Eskilandersson does not answer my question at all. How do you handle the write-down with the K3 regulations when you remove investment support in a place like Älmhult? There is a write-down requirement of 10 to 20 per cent, and investment support covers the difference. When it comes to owner apartments I advise Mikael Eskilandersson to go out and visit some municipalities. In Jönköping, for example, owner-occupied apartments are being built. The problem is that there is no demand. It is possible that Mikael Eskilandersson's daughter is asking for an owner's apartment, which I have all respect for. But a market works so that without sufficient demand, no one wants to produce a product. Mikael Eskilandersson may explain why he does not think that the market economy works in this part when he thinks that the market economy should work when he withdraws the investment aid. Let me ask Mikael Eskilandersson once again: How will a municipality like Älmhult deal with the impairment problems faced if the investment support is removed? In that case, no rental apartments will be built but only residential apartments.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-89	Mr President, I would like to The lack of owner-occupied apartments is due to the fact that it is not legally possible to convert rental rights into owner-occupied apartments. It will not do so within a reasonable time either, especially when it takes five years for the government to seek a directive for an investigation. You haven't even come to the investigation, even though the announcement is five years old. We will be able to discuss this for many years to come before we can even get the directive together. Why is the directive taking so long in this case? Yes, it is an unwillingness to introduce owner-occupied apartments, nothing else. It won't take five years to put together a directive for an investigation. After all, we have seen many other investigations set up very quickly when it has been considered that there has been a need. So to the question how Älmhult will handle its impairment if they are not allowed to use the investment support. I was a member of the Municipal Investigation, and we made proposals that there should be a review of the rules on the problem of writing down real estate. Building is expensive, and when small municipalities have finished building, it turns out that the dwelling is worth less than it cost to build. These are the rules in question, and they should be changed. You can still have a financial gain on a property like this, and therefore it can be profitable for a company to build the property. It is difficult to summarise in 14 seconds how this would work, so I will have to come back more closely to what a system like this would look like according to the Municipal Investigation.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-93	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Momodou Malcolm Jallow. The system of presumption rents will be abolished. If it doesn't happen through a decision here, they're probably going to dismantle themselves. So congratulations, Left Party, on that! The day-to-day leasing system has been criticised by many because it discourages mobility, slows down renovations and new constructions and contributes to the emptying of housing. That is why we have made our passive support to Stefan Löfven conditional on new ways of negotiating and setting rents being investigated. Contracts entered into shall be honoured and kept. I trust that before the end of our term of office, we will have reforms that will allow the rent of newly produced housing to be set free if both parties agree on it, that better account can be taken of the situation when rents are determined in the existing stock and that the negotiating system is simplified, speeded up and balanced between the parties. It is strikingly unanimous in this House, it sounds like. Only the Left and the Swedish Democrats are openly critical. However, KD's message in the reservation is difficult to understand, and Larry Söder is welcome to be a little clearer on this point. As investigation work is ongoing, the Center Party has a special opinion, but our opinion is identical to that expressed by the Moderates in reservation 1. Such a message from the second largest party of the Riksdag is welcome. Mr President, I would like to Many people want to own their home. These are high thresholds, but in the long term, housing is a good investment, which also leads to lower housing costs for most people – provided they are prepared to take on the responsibility of owning. The committee has drawn attention to this and calls on the government in a notice to speed up the implementation of the proposals to introduce a law that allows for the conversion of tenancy rights into owner-occupied apartments. A rental purchase system is introduced which means that you can gradually and to the extent that you can afford it can become the owner of your home. It is a way of strengthening people's self-determination and giving them the freedom to rent out to someone who needs a home. At the same time, the revenue from such a sale means that the hosts can renovate, reinvest and build new homes. I therefore call for the two reservations of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left to be rejected under paragraphs 22 and 23. But, Mr President, let us now move back to paragraph 20. Here, the Center Party has a reservation, number 28, which I would like to endorse. Normally, a right-of-occupancy association is a property with buildings in close proximity. In rural areas, conditions are different. Although there is a demand from families with children, for example, it is more difficult to gain economic viability in a newly formed association in rural areas. Due to low property values, many banks also do not want to issue loans. We believe that it can be easier if it would be possible for an association to knock off in another place within a locality and from there to grow in line with demand. The association's finances are built up by the members' efforts and what they have paid for the right to use an apartment as their home. Not everyone is aware of the risks involved in buying a right-of-occupancy apartment. This may have different reasons, but I believe that the absence of a norm of ownership in Sweden is one of them. For many, the range of rental apartments has been exclusive, while the property owned has been synonymous with villas and terraced houses on a purchased plot. An awakening that there may be different alternatives, such as owner-occupied apartments, in the Swedish housing market is good. A right-of-occupancy association must, of course, place high demands on the board of directors and auditors. They shall consider it their task to manage and maintain their property for the good of all members. If this is not done, you risk losing the value of your contribution and standing with a home that is poorly maintained and therefore difficult to get rid of. This uncertainty has been exploited by people who have plundered the associations, mismanaged the properties and then cannot be held responsible. The Chinese wall in Rosengård is perhaps the most talked about example. There, the situation is still very tough for the members. In the event of bankruptcy, which was often imminent, they would lose their home but retain their debts. Since Sydsvenskan began its review, we in Parliament have taken more measures to prevent people from being affected. But that's not enough. We in the Center Party believe that the government needs to speed up the implementation of proposals that make it difficult for rogues to access the board office of a housing association and plunder its assets. We have in common with the Liberals a reservation, number 25 in paragraph 19, to which I would like to give my assent. We have also seen how criminals, by having access to a rental apartment, can cause anxiety in an area. No one wants to live in a staircase where prostitution, drug sales or large quantities of weapons are being held. The examples here may well be the basis for eviction today, but there are cases that are more difficult to access. How can you prove that in a local, mafia-like business, crime is planned, drugs are stored or weapons are hidden? We in the Center Party believe that the proof requirements must be lowered and that the rental law should enable criminals to be accessed and to provide security for ordinary people in their living environments. Here we have a reservation to which we have not applied. Mr President, I would like to Having access to a home should be a fundamental right for all people at all stages of life and everywhere in Sweden. We want to simplify regulations, speed up planning processes and ensure that housing is built quickly, cost-effectively and environmentally smartly in secure areas. We want to see a social housing sector developed in which those affected by long-term and structural homelessness have a chance to live at a low cost and with the necessary support. We want those who have been assaulted by their partner and need housing to be able to get it quickly, even if they have to move away from their place of residence where the perpetrator remains. We want a housing market that is capable of receiving people of different origins and conditions. But we understand that there are challenges that lie, among other things, in the segregated housing policy that has been brought back to Sweden for 60 years. The million-dollar programmes brought with them very positive – an independent home business with many good housing. But while rural people moved, concrete suburbs were created, which today have a great need for renovation and where we now see huge integration problems with the insecurity I have described before. I very much hope that the January agreement will be fulfilled and that we will have the reforms for rental law that we see today in Parliament a broad and cross-block majority. It is a first step, but the Center Party is not satisfied until we have a housing market in balance throughout the country, where anyone who receives an offer of a place of education at a university or college in the country can accept it in the assurance that there is a place to live. Partial rental contracts, where each of those sharing an apartment has a property protection with their own contract, are a proposal put forward by the Center Party and the Liberals in reservation 19. Mr President, I would like to I have now presented the views of the Center Party in their entirety. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations and, otherwise, of the report in which announcements are addressed to the government. We are in favour of reservations 6, 25 and 28.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-112	Mr President, I would like to It is a very important debate we are having today, and there are many important points in the report to discuss. I'm going to spend my time on renting and market rents. Those who know me know that this is an important issue for me and the Left Party. I wish there had been a free line in this debate, because I would have liked to take a line on the Social Democrats. But we will have several opportunities to do so. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish rental model, with collectively negotiated rentals based on the use value principle, is in an international perspective unique. The aim of the Swedish leasing system is to create the conditions for reasonable rental development that provides fair rentals and security for tenants. The Left Party defends the Swedish rental model. It is based on a fundamental democratic principle: that all people should have the right to influence their living conditions. It is precisely this principle and this renting model that are under threat here today. It is the right to housing, a place for everyone to call a home, which the Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Center Party and the Liberals, want to take away from you and me. It is the right to have a place to live with reasonable rent. This may be worth remembering in upcoming elections 2022. The Swedish leasing system has for a long time been criticised by the right to contribute to low construction and long housing queues. Instead, the right wants to see market rents and a change in the negotiating system in order to limit Tenants' opportunities to protect tenants' interests. We note that these ideas have now also been adopted by the Social Democrats and the Green Party, two parties which at the previous elections were very clear to their voters that they would never implement market rents. You might wonder what happened. The agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party in January 2019 contains a number of proposals that, if implemented, will fundamentally change the Swedish rental model. In April 2020, the Government appointed a study on free renting in new production of housing. The assignment shall be presented by 31 May 2021. The Government's objective is that a bill on lettings in new production should be adopted by the Riksdag at the beginning of 2022 and that new legislation should enter into force later that year. The Left Party takes very seriously the reforms of the Swedish rental model that the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government intend to implement with the support of C and L. We have been very clear about our position on this issue. All in all, these proposals significantly reduce consumer protection for the country's tenants and seriously interfere with the party model in the rental market. If I have not been clear enough, let me be extra clear once and for all: Mr President. The Left Party rejects market rents in both new production and the existing stock. Today, the rents are put into collective bargaining between the Tenants' Association and the private and public landlords. The landlord cannot set the rent unilaterally and must negotiate with the Tenant Association. The rents are set on the basis of a dwelling's so-called use value. The use-value principle is based on a valuation of the same level of rents for similar apartments. It's supposed to be equal rent for a similar apartment. And the rent should be based on the utility value, i.e. the standard and quality of the apartment, the property and the area. Reality has shown that the utility value model usually works both in recession as well as in boom and under great stress. It provides stable profits for companies while providing security and influence for tenants. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the current rental model and system and the work carried out by the parties aimed at achieving a more consistent and transparent rental structure are sufficient for the quality and location of the apartments to have a greater impact on rental. We believe that development and the negotiating system, such as time limits and sanctions, should be managed by the negotiating parties and not by state intervention. Politicians have nothing to do with it. Unlike the government and its partners, we want to protect and develop the Swedish rental model with collectively negotiated rentals according to the use value principle. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats and their partners often say that what is to be introduced is not market rents. But it's just to mislead the population. I'll try to explain what the consequences of market rents will be. Market rents mean that the landlord can decide for himself how high the rent should be and that the person who is willing to pay the most is the one who can rent the apartment that is rented out. This means that the landlord can decide for himself how high the rent should be and that it depends on the thickness of the wallet for everyone whether to get a place to live or not. The tenant's collective right to negotiate disappears, and so does the right of possession, i.e. the right to remain. Proponents of market rents argue that market rents would boost the construction of rental rights. If landlords are allowed to set a higher rent, they can earn more money and therefore get more incentives to build more rental apartments. It's capitalism. You open the henhouse to the wolf and hope the wolf won't eat the hens. It's naive to think like that. The whole logic of capitalism is based on maximising profit, often at the expense of poor people. In fact, the main obstacles to building more rents are linked to the costs of new production, the lack of buildable land, high land prices and the planning process. The key to an even and high rate of new production of rentals is stable financing, where the government takes over part of the risk from households and companies. The Left Party therefore proposes, among other things, a government top loan with a low interest rate that replaces a larger part of its own capital. Market rents would lead to a substantial increase in rents for everyone, as there would be no rental bargaining system to protect tenants against excessive rent increases. Rents would increase most in inner cities where only people with very good finances could afford to live. We see it in Stockholm, and many people flee Stockholm because they can't afford to stay there because of the rents. In addition, some people would not be able to afford to live in an ordinary dwelling, and society would need to develop simpler and cheaper housing for tenants with a worse economy, just as we have heard from the Liberals, so-called social housing. This would lead to a more segregated society. In addition, social costs of housing allowance are likely to increase significantly. We can't talk about rent without talking about the consequences of the coronapandemine. The Coronapandemia has revealed the deep gaps and housing inequality in Swedish society. It has been shown that the home has a central role in the fight against, but also in the aftermath of, the pandemic. Boverket shows with a new calculation model that 462,000 households in the country are crowded, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare's guidelines, and that more than 56 000 of them also have a strained housing economy, which makes it difficult or impossible for them to enter the regular housing market. This shows very clearly that Swedish housing supply has an equality problem. The introduction of market rents will only exacerbate the problem. Several studies have shown that less than half of households in large cities can apply for a newly built rental apartment and have a reasonable standard of living after the rent has been paid. Market rents intended to be introduced will require a parallel system of social housing, because one simply requires the other. Mr President, I would like to The proposals from the January parties thus lead straight towards a system shift in Swedish housing policy. To abandon the ambition of a general housing policy is to renounce political responsibility. The state chooses to surrender, and the most vulnerable society pays the price. Creating people's unequal conditions and placing poor people in needs without the right of possession is not a social housing policy. That is to add to segregation and poverty. Mr President, I would like to Housing is a social right, and everyone should have the right to a home. With these words, I call for the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-134	Mr President, I would like to Momodou Malcolm Jallow is giving a burning speech here. But it is full of errors, such as having to negotiate with the Tenants' Association. That's not what the law says. It is the dominant tenant organisation that must be negotiated with, that is, it is not always the Tenants' Association. There are examples where this is not the case. In addition, there is a large proportion of self-employed rents in the stock today and where it works well, but where you have the opportunity to go to the rent board to have your rent tested. That is why it is a problematic way that Momodou Jallow has, Mr President, in his rather luxuriant style. The most problematic thing about this style is that I wonder with whom Momodou Malcolm Jallow will rule this country along with. Obviously, the Left Party should do this, because they can stop everything. They say, "Let's say no." That's what's gonna happen. We're gonna stop this. But the alternative to the present government is a moderate government. If you read their reservation in this report, it says that there should be market rents. The January agreement has stopped it, that is, the wording of the January agreement stops market rents. Above all, Momodou Jallow talks about the proposal as if there were a proposal. But there is no suggestion on the table. And that is exactly what I warned about in my speech, that we will see the great evening of the prophets where, among others, Momodou Malcolm Jallow knows exactly what everything will be like. But my question is, who is the Left Party going to rule this country with? Or is it Momodou Malcolm Jallow's view that the Left Party will receive 50% of the votes in the next election?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-140	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Ola Möller requested a reply. I was hoping he would. I think Ola Möller is misleading the population. Talking about who the Left Party wants to rule with is not the question here. We live in a society where there is a housing shortage. People are homeless in this cold and have nowhere to go. It's about more and more people. There are single people and families who are homeless in Malmö, where I live, and who have nowhere to go. There are women who are vulnerable by their husbands and who want to move and divorce but cannot do so because they are afraid that they will have nowhere to live. We have a crowded house that has created major problems during the pandemic because people have nowhere to go. They can't keep a social distance. And Ola Möller is standing here asking me who we're going to run the country. That is not the question. The question is: Why do the Social Democrats, despite all the things I say, want to introduce a system that will make it impossible for many people to have a place to live? You have promised your constituents that you would never ever be in a position to introduce this type of system of market rents. That's the question. Answer the Swedish people: Why are you betraying your voters?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-143	Mr President, I would like to This is a fantastic clarification discussion that is a good way to participate in the election campaign next time. The Left Party never has to take responsibility. The Left Party always has the best ideas, according to themselves, and they always know what the future will look like. Parties that are forced to take responsibility in a difficult parliamentary situation also make compromises. But we are not compromising our fundamental values. Had Momodou Malcolm Jallow not stood here and been so upset, but instead had spent his time reading what is stated in the January agreement, he would also have seen that there are no market rents. The misleading thing here is a loud tone from a party that has no options more than to shout out loud. Momodou Malcolm Jallow can go back to my question and answer it: What future coalition does the Left Party see itself as part of? Now, if you're going into a coalition, because I still think the answer would be – is it reasonable to paint future coalition partners as something in Dante's second or third circle? I don't think so. Instead, I believe that we should lower the tone, wait for the proposals that are being made and see the benefits of our taking responsibility. For example, we have built much more during our two terms of office than those that were before. All the people that Momodou Malcolm Jallow also protects actually have an increased range of apartments. Answer the question. It's the only thing that's relevant here now. Who will the Left Party rule Sweden together with?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-148	Mr President, I would like to I can start by saying that yes, I am upset, but not about Ola Möller, but that there are people who today have nowhere to go. I'm upset that there are families with children who are homeless. That Ola Möller isn't upset, I can't help it. But I'm genuinely upset. I have met many of these people in my hometown. When it comes to responsibility, Ola Möller knows better. We have worked with the Social Democrats. Ola knows how much we've had to do together. That's taking responsibility. We have shown it then, and we have shown it now. We have shown this when it comes to the closure of the Employment Service. We've taken responsibility. We have shown this when it comes to giving more money to municipalities. We've taken responsibility. It's not about just talking. We'll show what we're talking about in action. Now it is up to the Social Democrats also to show that this is not your policy. Last time we had the same debate here, Ola Möller said: This is not our policy. I have more respect for it than Ola standing here defending the policy that he knows will have terrible consequences. The question is again: what do the Social Democrats want to do? That not everyone can live in the city with market rents is a fact. This is something the bourgeoisie does not shrink from. But is this the kind of society that the Social Democrats also want? People are running from the city. One should have an area for poor people and an area for rich people. Is this the kind of society that the Social Democrats want? I don't think so. It is therefore very difficult to see Ola Möller standing here defending a system that creates that kind of division, segregation and poverty in this country.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-154	Mr President, I would like to In part, I went into the speaker's chair to withdraw my motion 28, which is a center reservation. The other common reservations that we have with L and M and L, I would like to retain. That was my business. Then I would like to make a sound argument with Momodou Malcolm Jallow about what the driving forces are that are behind us getting new housing in Sweden. Momodou Malcolm Jallow is critical of the presumption rental systems. The PPS was introduced in order to realise that value-added rents did not create sufficient incentives and incentives for both public utilities and private housing companies to invest in housing. The presumption was first set at 10 years. Then it was realized that it was not enough but extended the time for the presumption system to 15 years. Momodou Malcolm Jallow criticises in his own motion that we initially have a rent level that mimics what could be a marketed rent but which is actually cost-based. It is a level of rent that means that during the first 15 years the property owner can feel confident that the rents cover the investment costs that have been incurred. Now Momodou Malcolm Jallow wants to remove this. At the same time, the Center Party, together with the Social Democrats, is investigating a model that initially sets rents free in an agreement between the prospective tenant and the property owners – as an alternative to value-added rents, on which it is still possible to conclude contracts – which are then converted into a tariff. I wonder a little: how many billions does the Left Party think are needed in housing policy to compensate for the housing that, based on both models, has been added in the past year and hopefully also in the next year?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-161	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Ola Johansson! For us in the Left Party, the most important thing is to have a system that works for all people and not just for the rich. If we have a housing policy in which people, whether rich or poor, have some options and somewhere to live, we are satisfied. In the presumption rent system that Ola Johansson is talking about, the principle is that you get back what you have invested and profit in addition to it over a longer period of time. It's a kind of compromise. You have to look at the context. The situation as it is today is that we have a housing shortage. It is not built for ordinary workers who have low incomes, but it is built for the rich. We must somehow reconsider. We need to create reforms that change the system so that it becomes a level where everyone can afford it. The road that the Center Party and the government are taking now makes things worse and not better. That is why we say that we stick to the right of residence. That is why we must have a system that helps everyone. It's like I mentioned earlier. Much of those living in rental apartments today are overcrowded. We know that. Many of them have problems with the economy. We know that many people have lost their jobs during the pandemic. This means that they will find it even more difficult to pay their bills and rents. It is not the presumption rent that we should start from, but we should assume that we will build housing that everyone can afford to live in.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-167	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to have sympathy for the attitude that everyone should be able to afford and live. I'm the first person to sign that this should be the case. Everyone has the right to a roof over their heads. When a distinction is made between rich, less wealthy and perhaps even less well-off, it is clear that the financial conditions that different people have give different conditions for obtaining different types of housing. I do not believe that this is any longer, even in the society of the Left Party, something that we will ever equalize and change. One can call it gaps, and one can also call it differences in economic conditions. They will never be bridged unless a total socialist system is put in place. I do not believe that even the Left Party is in favour of this any more. Momodou Malcolm Jallow captures it well when he describes presumption rents as a compromise, because it is. Presumable rents are about us realizing that the system that Momodou Malcolm Jallow advocates – negotiated rentals according to the utility value system – does not work to obtain the necessary housing. This will seek a more market-oriented system that will enable property owners to achieve a profitability that will allow them to invest in additional housing later on. But when you introduce such a system, it is something that Momodou Malcolm Jallow criticises and then calls for a compromise. Then we can say that there are two extremes: either we have the fully regulated housing market that Momodou Jallow advocates and which means that we also have to subsidise the housing market by several billions more than the 3.2 we have agreed with the government, or we have a system whereby we renouncing the possibility of finding a model for renting where we negotiate directly with the prospective tenant as an alternative to negotiating with the Tenants' Association. In the choice between these two options, I prefer what both Ola Möller and I have advocated here to the current compromise on presumption rents. But we'll see if they'll still be there. We do not know, because there is still only one proposal on the way.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-174	Mr President and Ola Johansson! As far as subsidisation is concerned, we have proposed to have top government loans, as I mentioned earlier in my speech. The top government loan is a means of subsidising. It is a way of offering 25% of equity, so all you have to pay for is 5%. It should also be low interest rates. The problem usually is that it costs a lot, but if the state helps, shares the risk and offers 25 per cent of its own capital, it will make it easier. We need to be able to bet. It costs, but we have to invest in building housing if we're going to build housing for everyone. Ola Johansson has no problem subsidizing residential apartments and villas. He spends quite a lot of money subsidising for the wealthy, who actually have money to pay for themselves. But every time we talk about subsidizing rentals, it sounds like this: No, why should we do it? It costs a lot of money. This doesn't make any sense. If you're honest, you'll understand that it doesn't make sense. Why should we subsidise people who are rich and can afford it? If you have a residence in Spain and are going to renovate or build a pool, you can make deductions and receive subsidies from the taxpayer. But I, who live in a rental apartment in Sweden, can't even renovate it without the rent being so high that I can't stay. It doesn't make sense. We in the Left Party believe that the state must come in and subsidise, finance and invest money. It is also a way of starting the economy after the coronapndemine. All the renovation that needs to be done creates jobs for many people. It's a good way to start the economy. That's what you do in Denmark. Why can't we do that in Sweden? Why must it always be a problem when it comes to taking taxpayers' money and financing housing for everyone who lives here? After all, there is something in the Constitution. Everyone must have the right to a place of residence.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-179	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to get into a debate when it has been a little while. I listened to Ola Möller's speech, which I largely thought was quite good. I note that Ola Möller and I share the same view on at least one thing: that housing is part of welfare. But then, when it comes to how we should ensure that every person has a home or how big the problem with the housing shortage is in Sweden, our common position ends. We believe as a party that we have a housing shortage in Sweden. Municipalities around the country testify to a shortage and an uneven distribution of housing. We believe that municipalities have inadequate planning readiness. There is too little construction in Sweden to achieve what both Ola Möller and I want: that the homes should be part of the welfare. We hope that in the future we can see the goal instead of the problems and find the solutions. Enough about that part. I'd like to talk to you about rent statistics. Statistics can be used in many different ways and are, as a rule, very good, as it gives an independent picture of the situation. Public statistics that are available to all are a prerequisite in many different areas – but not in the rental statistics, according to the Government. Public rental statistics would be important from a consumer perspective. It is a good idea to compare prices with standard and types of apartments both for prospective tenants, who can compare costs, and for those who are market participants, who may need better information about the price situation where they have their property. We Christian Democrats have tried to push for this to come about because we see that the benefits of it far exceed any cost for it. We believe that it is becoming increasingly important in the future to be able to check through statistics whether a rent is consistent with what is customary in the area with a certain quality. According to Boverket, such statistics would have a total cost of somewhere between SEK 10 million and SEK 20 million. It is a sum that is well a good investment given that public rental statistics can help many consumers to know if they are paying the right price for their standard. A public rental statistics provide the parties with knowledge of what is a reasonable rent level. We see an increased need for this in the context of the forthcoming reform of free renting in new production that the government parties want to introduce. If the parties have good knowledge of the rental levels, the risk of usury is prevented. In its latest report on rental statistics, Boverket has reported five possible paths for this, but the Minister has, in an answer to a direct written question, actually dismissed all of them because a number of questions remained after the report, as the Minister said. In my world, it is then up to politics to find the answer to the questions that remain – that is, whether one has the will to introduce a system of public rental statistics. The likely scenario is that the government side wants to delay this as long as possible and hopes that the issue runs into the sand. I believe that free leasing in new production, which the government wants to introduce, increases the need and thus the pressure to introduce the same. I therefore believe that the government will have to come back to public rental statistics after all. Mr President, I would like to It is five years since the Parliament in its report 2015/ 16:CU14 issued an announcement to the government that a rental purchase system should be investigated. I will take it again: in report 2015/ 16:CU14. It's been five years. This is a system that can of course be complicated, as the government side writes. But is it so complicated that you can't even get an investigation in five years? One cannot even ask the relevant questions in an investigation to see what this could look like. For me, five years is a long time, and this tells me that something else is behind the government's failure to comply with the announcement. You do not prioritise, or you do not think you need to pursue, the will and decisions of the parliamentary majority. The government's own texts show that it does not believe that there is a real need. It does not really matter how many announcements we make or how large a majority in the Riksdag are of a different opinion; the government does not feel the need to investigate this. I can live with this setback, and we in Parliament can live with it. But the rental buying system is in other countries, and it works. This could stimulate housing ownership. But maybe that's where the government has its problem: They don't want ordinary people to own their own home. Renting is an opportunity, and we want to give it to people. That's not what the government wants. I think it would be good to get this investigated so that we know what a Swedish rental purchasing system could look like. I hope that on this occasion and with a new Minister for Housing, the government will take seriously the will of the majority of Parliament. I say it again – at the will of the parliamentary majority. I hope you follow it by starting an investigation. I also believe that there is a need in the country for rent purchases. With this, I am in favour of reservation 9 on rental statistics and rental register.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-195	Mr President, I would like to Too few young people today can leave home because of the housing shortage. Too many older people feel compelled and forced to stay in the villa even though they would like to move to something simpler. Too many families also live cramped without the opportunity for the children to have a quiet place to do their homework. One of the problems causing the housing shortage is a non-functioning rental market. Through the January agreement, we have negotiated important reforms for a more liberal rental market where there will be free renting in new production, where the situation factor will play a greater role in leasing and where a dispute settlement is introduced so that today's renting model will work better. But there's more to do. The waiting period for a rental right in the big cities is not counted in months but this year. Moreover, the many social contracts and excessive homelessness show that the model has not been able to take the necessary social considerations into account. The solution is more housing, and not only more rental apartments, but housing of all types. We are therefore pleased that the majority in committee supported two of our motions. One is about announcing to the government that it is time to take seriously a functioning rental purchasing system in order to give more people the opportunity to own their accommodation. The municipal companies that have today tried to allow residents to gradually convert a rental contract into ownership of the rented dwelling have encountered problems. A rental purchase system could contribute to a more diverse stock and increase flexibility in the housing market as it opens up for more people who do not have enough capital to own their housing. This is important not least in the vulnerable areas around our country, where rental law often dominates. The government should therefore set up an investigation as soon as possible with a view to introducing a rental purchase system. The second exercise is about owner-occupied apartments. We now see that housing with this form of tenure is starting to be produced to a greater extent, which is a positive thing. However, it is still not possible to form owner-occupied apartments in the existing dwelling stock. Owning one's own home gives people greater influence over their homes. It would also allow us to obtain relatively quickly more owned dwellings in areas that are currently dominated by rental rights and where the market conditions for new production of residential units and owner-occupied apartments are limited. Enabling greater ownership in areas dominated by rental rights also means that people living there today would not have to move out of the area if they wanted to start a housing career, which would counteract housing segregation. It has been five years since the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to return with proposals that make it possible to convert rental apartments in blocks of flats into owner-occupied apartments, but nothing has happened. If the government shares the Liberals' ambition to reduce the number of vulnerable areas in our country, Mr President, it should urgently address the issues of creating the conditions for a rental purchase system and the possibility of creating owner-occupied apartments in existing stocks. Liberals also see other opportunities to increase housing supply. For example, legislation on private rental and subletting should be reviewed. Today's legislation leads to the unnecessary emptying of the right-of-occupancy right-of-occupancy rights. The starting point shall be that those who have a right of residence shall have the right to rent it unless the right-of-occupancy association has special reasons to oppose the rental. There are also additional measures that should be considered to increase private rental, such as better information on the current regulatory framework. Mr President, I would like to The number of people enrolled in our universities is increasing due to the unemployment caused by the Corona crisis. Student housing needs to be prioritised in larger extensions, and we believe that a definition of student housing needs to be included in the Rentals Act. Better alignment of regulations with student conditions and the use and purpose of student housing would lead to a more flexible market for students and lower costs for student housing companies, which could increase the construction of student housing. Another measure that could create more opportunities for young people and students to find a home is the possibility to sign a rental contract for an individual room in an apartment. It could improve the efficiency of the use of the student apartment portfolio if there was a possibility to rent each room separately. Mr President, I would like to Housing plays a central role in the ability of newcomers to establish themselves on the labour market and in society as a whole. Housing segregation and overcrowding are widespread problems with social consequences. In addition to the legislative changes made in this area, further action is needed. Property owners, both private and municipal, must work to counteract unauthorised further leasing and also the existence of fictitious rental. The landlord has a responsibility to follow up that those who are on the contract are actually also those who live in the apartment in reality. There is also a need for increased cooperation between property owners to combat the black trade in rental contracts and subletting. In cases where criminal groupings use housing or supplies for illegal activities, more stringent legislation is needed. Mr President, I would like to A functioning rental market is an important part of counteracting the housing shortage as well as improving people's ability to buy and own their own home. Liberalisations in the rental market are underway, but there is still much to be done. Some of our proposals have been developed here today. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to be won in this House, I am only in favour of reservation 15.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-209	Mr President, I would like to We're discussing rentals here today. Naturally, the spokesperson of the Green Party on this subject and the chairman of the committee, Emma Hult, would have been here. However, with reference to the current circumstances, as it is now known, I am the one standing here instead. Rental rights are home to more than one in four people in our country. Nearly 60 per cent of those living in blocks of flats live in rental apartments. The right to rent is important not least for young people to be able to move away from home and get their first apartment. However, we have a large shortage of rental apartments. We need to build more rental apartments that people can afford to live in and that are sustainable from a resource perspective and a climate perspective. Mr President, I would like to The committee proposes two announcements to the government in response to the motion for a resolution. It is about transforming existing homes into owner-occupied apartments and investigating a rental purchase system. The committee believes that the Government should give priority to work on these issues in accordance with a previous announcement. We in the Green Party believe that these are other issues that should be given priority in this area, given the situation on the housing market. Sweden has a large housing shortage, although construction has increased, and we are concerned about structural homelessness. We see increasing problems in municipalities with older people with no roof over their heads and a home. Pensioners shouldn't be homeless. Children shouldn't be homeless. Families with children should not be evicted into homelessness. Violent women should be able to get their own lease after they have left the relationship where they have been abused. Housing segregation must be broken with the fight against poverty, but also by municipalities building mixed residential areas in their planning. In areas that are totally dominated by rental apartments, there is already the possibility of converting rental apartments into residential units or cooperative rental apartments. The Green Party is in favour of a mix of different types of housing with different leases in the same area. It is something that we are currently also driving very strongly in my home constituency, the City of Stockholm. I shall also say something about the proposed announcements. When it comes first to the promotion of owner-occupied apartments, it is a complex issue to convert rental apartments in multi-residential buildings into owner-occupied apartments. Work is under way within the Government Office in response to the previous announcement. Several meetings have been held with authorities and associations, including to examine whether there is any real interest among different actors in transforming rental apartments into owner-occupied apartments. Against this background, we believe that Parliament should not now make another announcement to the government about ownership apartments. As far as rental buying systems are concerned, the majority of the committee, as we have heard a couple of times in the debate, notes that a long time has passed, over five years, since the Parliament addressed an announcement to the government to investigate, among other things, a rental buying system. It may, of course, appear to be a very long time. However, the issue of introducing such a system is not quite simple. Evidence and considerations are needed to produce solid directives for an investigation. It takes time. Right now – that's the important thing – work is under way at the Government Office to evaluate the documentation provided by the Ministry through the consultation meetings that have taken place. Several housing companies, both private and public, are also already working on interesting rental purchase initiatives within the framework of current legislation. As there are already well-functioning rental purchase models, it is doubtful, in our opinion, whether there is a real need to introduce a regulatory framework for rental purchases. We trust that the government will monitor developments in this area very closely. Mr President, I would like to I shall conclude by calling for approval of both the Green Party's reservations, namely reservations 29 and 30.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-222	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mrs Berglund. I understand that you have been thrown into this debate. As I said, you are not in either the government or the civil committee, but you represent the government party that holds the Ministry of Housing. That is why I would like to ask my question, which actually has more constitutional significance than housing policy. As I said in my speech, I am a little surprised that the Minister for Housing has not taken the time to represent his party in this debate. It would have been an excellent opportunity to tell her what she intends to do as Minister of Housing. I cannot, of course, blame Mrs Berglund for the fact that the Minister is not here. However, I would still like to ask some questions based on what he says about the two announcements that were already decided by the Riksdag in 2016. The honourable Member explains, among other things, that the Green Party does not think that these are issues that should be prioritised, but there are more important issues. The Green Party is free to think. But the foundation of a parliamentary democracy is that parties think different things and then vote on them. Then it is the parliamentary majority that decides and not an individual party. The honourable Member also talks about the need for sound investigation directives, not even solid investigations. Investigation directives that take five years to produce must be extremely solid. I'd say a solid investigation takes five years. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask whether we can now assume that the Government will deal without delay with Parliament's announcements on owner-occupied apartments and rent purchases.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-227	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank David Josefsson for the questions. As I said, I have been thrown into the debate and will do my best to duck for the questions. I cannot answer why the Minister was unable to come here today. It has only recently been a government transformation. I suppose the Minister has a lot on his table right now, but she would have liked to be here. I think that's the best answer at this point. It takes a long time to produce directives. As David Josefsson was on the subject, we expect a solid basis and a solid directive for the investigation. It will hopefully also make the investigation as good as possible. As I mentioned in the speech, there are already opportunities, in current legislation, to act as the committee initiative has previously pointed out. The answer is that work is ongoing in the Government Office. Since I've been thrown in here a little bit, I don't have any insight into that work.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-232	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Mats Berglund! I understand that it is difficult to answer, but the question really has more constitutional significance. First of all, I hope that the Government, because she is not here, spends its time working on housing issues. We can see that there is much to do. I would like to return to the constitutional question. In my previous political act, I have worked with both local government policy and regional policy. There I have always experienced environmental parties as clear defenders of the principles of the parliamentary system. Regardless of what one has felt on the substance, there has been a self-worth in respecting and sanctifying the democratic assemblies. In these cases, it has been a matter of respecting and sanctifying the council's decisions. I have seen that the view of democracy and parliamentarism alongside the commitment to environmental issues has almost been an ideal for not only environmental parties but also the Green Party as a party. That is why it is a little startling that today we have to address two new announcements to the government in cases where there have already been announcements for almost five years. In addition, the answer to why nothing has happened is that one wants to give priority to other questions and that it takes time to prepare the questions. As I said, my supplementary question is, in fact, highly constitutional and may not be related to housing or rental policy. Is it important for the Environmental Party to follow Parliament's decisions regarding announcements? Will it, in such cases, as a government party, follow today's decision in this House?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-237	Mr President, I would like to Democracy and constitutional issues are absolutely important for the Green Party. This applies both in the Riksdag, this Assembly, and in the parishes in municipalities and regions around Sweden that we sit in. We shall, of course, comply with the laws and directives that exist for decision-making. I believe that David Josefsson's question is that he is insinuating some form of government delay and that we are therefore not following the guidelines that exist. I do not want to fall into that trap, but I refer to my speech, where I also gave reasons why it has taken so long. Five years, a little over, is a long time to develop investigation directives. I'm completely clear on that. Once again, I would like to point out that work is under way in the Government Office. It's a boring answer, which you often come up with. But that's the answer I have to give.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-240	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Berglund, which I understand has been thrown into this debate! I absolutely forgive you if you can't answer my questions. But I'm still going to ask questions based on what you said in your speech. I hope that you will be able to answer my questions as an environmental party and on the basis of the party's ideological positions. Mats Berglund mentioned in his speech the need to build more rental apartments that people can afford to live in. He mentioned the structural homelessness that affects people. He mentioned that there are pensioners who are homeless and that there are children and families with children who are homeless. He said it's not acceptable. I agree 100%. That is exactly what the Left Party has always said and will continue to say. We have homelessness, and we have a housing shortage. It affects a lot of people. We have to do something to change that. My question is that there are so many people, pensioners and families with children who are homeless. How can market rents help these people? There are people who cannot afford to pay the rents that exist today. How can the introduction of a new system to build new homes whose rents will be even higher than the current rents help all the people to whom Mats Berglund referred in his speech? Is this all about rhetoric? In that case, it's a good thing to say it. But if it's not rhetoric, I'd like an answer.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-243	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for raising the issue of market rents in the newly built stock! I would also like to thank you for raising the important issues of structural homelessness and the problem of far too expensive rents. The Green Party is also pushing this hard. We went to elections on that, and we push the issue hard in the municipalities where we are in control. We are trying to find solutions to build cheaper as far as possible. Under the leadership of the Green Party in the government, investment aid has also been added. There are several answers to the question of free renting in the new building stock. One answer is that this is an agreement between the government, the Center and the Liberals. This is part of the agreement needed to keep the right-wing extremist forces away from Swedish politics, for example. This agreement was made so that the country could be ruled at all. It took a lot of months before it happened. Another answer is that this is not the Green Party's line. It is an agreement and reconciliation with other parties. A third response is that one should not exaggerate and raise the tone of the debate. My belief is that this will not have the enormous negative consequence that is being heard about in the debate. After all, there are a small number of homes. We already have high prices in new construction today, and it is by no means certain that this is exactly what drives prices up.
i-FcfsEESixf69X4VNf4nWzt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Berglund, for your answer! Everyone understands it's a deal. Everyone also understands the need to comply with the agreement. But my question was not really about it, but about another matter. Does Mats Berglund and the Green Party really believe, regardless of the agreement, that this particular reform will help the homeless, people who have nowhere to go, families with children, pensioners and low-income people who today cannot afford to pay current rents? Will the proposal solve this problem? If it does not, I would like to hear the Green Party say: we do not believe that this will solve the problem, and that is not our policy. We don't think that's good. At least that would be honest. You can say that you do this because other parties demand it but you do not think it solves the problem yourself. I have a problem with it being said that this is not a policy of its own, but it still defends it. For me, it's deeply problematic. I'll buy it if you say this is not our policy. We do not think that will solve the problem. We think that structural homelessness is a major problem, and this proposal will only make things worse. If you did, we'd be on the same line. Is it important for the Green Party that we build more rental apartments that people can afford and that help everyone who is structurally homeless, who helps all pensioners so that they have a place to live and that removes the tightness that we see today in Sweden? Will this market rent reform stop or solve the problem?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-252	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has made a number of other proposals to overcome the problems mentioned by Momodou Jallow and which I also mentioned in my speech. In municipalities, for example, the Green Party is pushing the question of the need to invest in those who are furthest away from the housing market. I think you need to work more with the housing allowance. For example, residents may need to apply for housing allowance. The existing housing stock needs to be used much better than it is today. There are big problems there. I mentioned my municipality of residence, the City of Stockholm. There are major problems of this kind. This is particularly true in the inner city. Some single households live there in very large dwellings. The flexibility of the housing stock is poor. We need to make better use of it. More housing also needs to be built. However, I am not going into the increased rhetoric that all new rentals will receive a much higher rent just because we implement the agreement that exists between the four parties of the January Agreement. The best way to reduce the numbers is to build more and share what we have and that all municipalities throughout Sweden take responsibility for creating housing and homes for all groups in society. These were some of the answers I have to the question.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-256	Mr President, I would like to Although I appreciated Momodou Jallow's committed speech, I did not intend to call for the Left Party's reservation 15, but my intention was to ask for the approval of reservation 20, which is the reservation of the Liberals and the Center Party in 15.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-257	Mr President, I would like to The President has probably alarmed us because there is a lot of discussion about reservations, and we are making wrong motions. Therefore, I shall only ask for the approval of a single reservation on this matter. Fortunately, we only have one reservation. I'm in favour of it. I also apologise for my previous violation of the agreement. Of course, I also support the rest of the proposal in the report. Now we have entered the law of association, which is a dear child. The area is exciting because it is so wide. Last year we talked about personal responsibility in the event of bankruptcy, the size of share capital when starting public limited liability companies and sustainability reports. These are subjects that are certainly coming up today too, but that is not something that I intend to go through in detail. On the other hand, I would like to inform everyone who listens to the debate that the right of association is very much governed by the European Union. If you think that certain things should not be done in the field of association law, you often have to take the step fully and say that we should not be in the EU. But nowadays there is no one who thinks this in this House. That's why you should keep it in mind when someone makes hot attacks and says that things shouldn't be done and that it's the government's fault. Everyone here is behind EU membership, and so some things have to be done. It is important for all of you who listen to it to keep it in mind. Mr President, I would like to One reflection you can make last year is that the wave of bankruptcies that was predicted never occurred. That it looks very different in different industries, I naturally want to press on and have said, but it's not that the number of bankruptcies was significantly greater in 2020 than they were in the previous year – I even think the number was slightly smaller, which is interesting. This is clear proof that the Government's efforts during the previous year have made a great deal of use to Swedish industry as a whole. Again, there are, of course, industries that have been very severely affected. However, the advantage has been that many other sectors have even done better than they usually do in terms of avoiding bankruptcy. I shall also say a few words about the reservation we have, Mr President. It concerns an issue in which there has been an announcement since before, namely corporate guardians. I always mix it up with car goalkeepers, so we have to keep our tongue right here, everyone – it's easy to argue wrong or say wrong. So this is about corporate guardians. Here it is again the case that there is already an announcement, and thus the usefulness of another announcement is quite limited. Then we're back in that funny play that you want to make an announcement not because it's needed but to mess it up for the government. The reason I can say this in this case is that the five parties that push this through are not consistent. If crime in the corporate sector had been dealt with, proposals would have been made, among other things, to increase the share capital in order to set up a company. This is an issue that the Swedish National Audit Office has clearly pointed out as something that matters a great deal. Another issue raised in the previous year was the question of personal liability in the event of bankruptcy. There, some of the parties behind this announcement would of course make it easier for the debtor, with the creditor's money at risk, i.e. the person who has lent the money or who has claims on the company. This is also an issue where the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish Tax Agency and others point out that there is a risk of crime. Thus, the announcement of corporate goaltenders is, again, part of the announcement bingo that is under way. Mr President, I would like to I shall conclude this speech by saying that Sweden has gone through the most difficult crisis since the Second World War. It is a Social Democratic-led government that has brought us through this and which, through short-term layoffs – which did not exist during the financial crisis, when we had another government – has saved over 550 000 jobs. It has avoided bankruptcies through major crisis support to the Swedish companies. With regard to those who unfortunately became unemployed, which is many fewer than we thought, the government went in and raised the unemployment fund and improved the protection of workers. This could be done by the government, thanks to a strong economy that has been built up for many years and thanks to the existence of a functioning parliamentary agreement that allows us to present budgets that go through this Assembly. It's taking responsibility for the country. We have done so during the crisis, and of course the government and the Social Democrats will continue to do so.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-268	Madam President, I would like Hope for the best, but always plan for the worst! This is the great lesson that Sweden must learn from 2020. Time and again Sweden has underestimated the risks and difficulties of the pandemic, and now the warning bells are ringing again. National vaccination does not work properly. The responsibility of putting the syringe in the arm of each of us lies on the regions. It is in itself an enormous challenge. Sweden will carry out the biggest mass vaccination ever, in the middle of a pandemic. It is a task which, of course, will be completely impossible if there are no vaccines and which becomes much more difficult if the national leadership fails. Nevertheless, the regions were informed that thousands of doses would be delayed and delivered far too late. It was information that had been around for weeks. When regions wanted to save vaccines earlier this year, the second dose, they were reprimanded by both authorities and social democrats. Nor was the new, complex vaccine priority discussed with the regions in advance. For months, the regions have been asking the government for a national information campaign to reach the most vulnerable and difficult in our society, but nothing is happening. My two questions to Stefan Löfven are these. Firstly, when will Sweden start a proper national information campaign on vaccination? Secondly, the government just stated that the timetable for all to receive vaccination by the end of June will be met. What does Stefan Löfven do to ensure that the timetable is valid and credible?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-277	Madam President, I would like First of all, let us remember that the procurement and agreement made jointly by the European Union in the area of vaccination are outstanding. That is what has made us where we are and that we have been able to start vaccination at all. Without the joint effort, we would not be there now. It is a huge breakthrough and a great success for cooperation and for research. The agreement provides for Member States to receive a number of doses based on their population. All countries should be treated fairly, transparently and transparently to create credibility in this. Therefore, Sweden receives the doses delivered on time. One challenge in the entire vaccination programme is, of course, that it is delivered exactly when it has been produced. There's no buffer here. It is difficult to predict if production does not flow. Now we have received a number of information from producing companies that they have not been able to maintain the plans that were drawn up and the agreements that were signed. You have simply delivered too little. Then it also affects Sweden. The Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions agree that we should stick to the goal we have agreed: that the adult population should be vaccinated until the mid-year. There will be a greater challenge now, no doubt about it, but we agree that the goal should be met. So far, we see that we can do it. The information campaign reported as recently as today that Sweden's Municipalities and Regions agree with the Swedish Public Health Agency that it is now possible to launch a major campaign on the benefits of actually vaccinating.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-283	Madam President, I would like I didn't get any answers to either of my two questions. First of all, I wondered when it would get started. When will the information campaign that everyone thinks is important be launched? We hope for March, the Public Health Authority's answer was on the radio this morning. Is that also Stefan Lövven's opinion? My conversations with the regions are of a completely different nature. They want tea strongly this campaign yesterday. They don't think it's good at all that we haven't got started. Secondly, my view of the regions is that they are extremely frustrated. They build up an organisation to be able to vaccinate, but there are no vaccines to the extent required. My question was what Stefan Löfven is doing in order for everyone to have received their vaccination syringe number two by the end of June.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-287	Madam President, I would like I repeat that Sweden's municipalities and Regions and the Swedish Public Health Agency have this cooperation, that dialogue, about what information campaign is going to start and when. There will be several campaigns. One will be about the need for vaccination, to vaccinate itself is a good thing to do. Then comes the next phase, and of course you have to be more specific – now the particular group you belong to will be relevant – so that you can search and get information about where to vaccinate you. As I said, the objective remains. So far, we see that we can fulfill it. It always depends on whether the vaccine is delivered, and it is the respective company that will deliver. We get exactly the pace we're going to have, just like everyone else. This is exactly the same situation for Sweden as for all other countries.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-291	Madam President, I would like The war headlines on electricity shortages have been replacing each other in recent times. The power shortage has been driven by the government's permission to shut down fully functioning nuclear reactors despite warnings from Swedish power grids about lack of margins. It should not surprise the government that it will be cold in Sweden during the winter, but now we can see the result of its policy: we will have to burn with heavy oil and import coal power from our neighbours. The price of electricity in parts of the country is now the highest in nine years, with the result that parts of the industry have had to cut their production when the price of electricity is too high. The government's mantra has repeatedly been that we export more electricity than ever before, which underlines that the difference between energy and effect is not understood. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he thinks it reasonable that we now have an energy policy that forces the industry to shut down its production when it gets cold and the price of electricity rushes.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-294	Madam President, I would like In fact, as I said, we produce more electricity in Sweden than ever before, and we will need to increase production further. We import less than ever, and we are now making sure to produce what is renewable. It is almost only Sweden and Norway that are able to keep so much of their electricity production renewable. Then it is true that we have power shortages, and this is not the first time. That is precisely why we need to invest much more in the power grids, and that is why the Swedish power grid's investment plans are so extensive. There will be more investment than in many years. In addition, we must probably add more cogeneration to deal with the situation in the south. Here and now, however, work is under way to scale up between zone 2 and zone 3.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-298	Madam President, I would like One of the problems has been that it does not matter how much electricity we export if we cannot produce it ourselves when we need it. It is precisely the problem of impact that is important. We can see how electricity prices rush when the cold strikes. At the same time, it is a fact that Sweden has no objective for security of supply. There is no one who is responsible for the long-term supply of energy, nor is there a majority in this House for the energy agreement that has been concluded. If Sweden is to be a prominent industrial country in the future, we need more planned power generation, and we need to be able to ensure that we have electricity during all hours of the year.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-300	Madam President, I would like We made a long-term agreement precisely so that we could raise investments in electricity generation, and we have got that. Rarely has there been so much investment in electricity generation, but we will have to do more. This agreement included, among other things, the removal of the tax on nuclear power, which the bourgeois government actually raised. We also reduced property tax, and we made it cheaper to deal with waste. But then everyone has to decide for themselves whether or not to invest in nuclear energy. We have a large electricity surplus in Sweden.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-303	Madam President, I would like In about 45 minutes it will be rattled with pots and pans outside many of the country's restaurants. Every day at three o'clock, restaurant operators and their employees send a strong alarm and a cry for help. There is a huge crisis for a great many companies around the country, not least in the tourism and restaurant industries. With the help of the pots they want to show how hard they are hit but also that they really need to get the support that they are entitled to and that the Prime Minister has been involved in developing. Despite this, and although I know that the Prime Minister understands the enormous burden that is currently being placed on the country's many small businesses, too many are waiting for aid to be paid out. The Swedish Tax Agency is waiting for the sales subsidy, and it is waiting for the Swedish Growth Agency to pay out the support during short-term lay-off. Yesterday, I met an entrepreneur at the Norwegian border in Västerbotten's hinterland, who has not received support since last summer despite 75 per cent of his turnover coming from the border trade. You can see how a lot of people are in crisis. In addition, many people now feel that they are on the brink of bankruptcy. It is ultimately a matter of risking seeing your life's work go up in smoke and people becoming unemployed. My question is: how can the Prime Minister accept that it takes so long to get these subsidies paid? Can the Prime Minister today give concrete information on what the government is doing to quickly change the situation? In fact, entrepreneurs need their support immediately.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-308	Madam President, I would like This is, as Annie Lööf says, one of several strained industries. It is also one of the sectors where aid is highest in relation to the number of employees. We have ensured that the authorities have been given more resources to speed up their handling of this. A few hundred people have been hired – I don't really remember – to make this happen as quickly as ever. In a pandemic that strikes so hard, it is clear that it is not easy to keep up the pace. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the authorities have done an amazing job. But it is clear that this hits the restaurants that will have to wait. According to the information I have and the figures I see, the large part is managed in a decent way. But there are those who have to wait far too long. Therefore, the possibility of ensuring liquidity through the tax account was also introduced. The taxes paid would thus be refunded with a certain retroactivity – I think it was three months – in order to deal with such a difficult period. We think it is good if we can use the support that we already agree on. There is an order and procedure for them. But we have also said that we are prepared to do more if this fails. The dialogue that we feel we have with, among other things, this industry, but also with the others, is good. We fully understand that you are under great pressure. We're putting resources in place to make it as fast as possible. We look at the resources available and see if it is possible to turn them on to improve the situation. And we are not ruling out further measures.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-313	Madam President, I would like I assume that the government is working hard to ensure that the subsidies you are entitled to are also paid out. But what many entrepreneurs are now struggling with is that it is difficult to get plus and minus to make ends meet. For almost a year now it has lived without either guests or revenues, and this is a loss on the economic situation. We are now hearing about many, not just a few, who have been waiting for more than six months and about the fact that it is now not even possible to apply for the subsidies because of the breakdown of computer systems and increased controls. It is now important that payments come and that they are made much faster. The crumple of pots and pot lids must be replaced by the clutter of the support to which they are entitled. I therefore have a joint message to the Prime Minister: here the government needs to assume its responsibilities. It is not reasonable that it takes six months to receive aid to which you are entitled.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-316	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government and the authorities are doing the best we can to ensure that aid is paid out as quickly as possible. They've come about because they're needed. But again – the picture is not that nothing works but that most still get their support, perhaps not within the time that everyone would like but still within a reasonable time. It's a giant pandemic we have to deal with. It has been going on for a year, as Annie Lööf says. Then it hits extremely hard. Nevertheless, this is one of the sectors that has received the best support per employee. That's what you need, so there's nothing weird about it. Maybe culture has got even more. As I said, we are providing more resources to the authorities to deal with this – it has already been done. The authorities are working as hard as they can, and we are prepared to do more.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-321	Madam President, I would like The other day we saw the labour market spokesperson from the Center Party, Stefan Lövven's partner, posing with a picture where the LO castle had been set on fire. At first, many center party members cheered and praised this painting. Then, because of media pressure, they had to distance themselves from this. Note that this is happening at the same time as many testify to a harsh trade union climate. Many elected representatives and members with whom I am speaking are not satisfied with the government's efforts under the January agreement. Safety representatives in our workplaces are threatened, harassed and prevented from doing their work today. Perhaps this is also the reason why many safety representatives stop or do not stand up at all. The trade union GS, for example, said the other day that the number of safety representatives in them has been halved compared to 18 years ago. According to law, regional safety representatives do not have access rights to all workplaces. This has not been achieved by the government. We do not currently have the right to deduct those who are members of the union, but employers do. On a number of points, the government has done nothing to protect the right to organise itself as an employee and to have trade union positions of trust. My question to the Prime Minister is: in what way has cooperation with the Center Party strengthened respect for trade union rights through the January agreement?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-325	Madam President, I would like I was very badly moved by the painting. We all need to distance ourselves strongly from that kind of expression, and I note that Annie Lööf also reacted quickly. I thank you for that, because it shows that we share the view that we must care for our language, whether it is picture or word. I share the view and concern of trade union representatives who are being harassed for their mission. One should be able to carry out one's mission in safety. Trade union representatives and representatives form a very important part of the Swedish labour market together with the employers. We shall take care of this party relationship and care for it. The January Agreement aimed, among other things, at stimulating the parties to agree on rules that we can partially introduce into legislation. These are things that the parties were already discussing. It was discussed when I was President of IF Metall. I think it was 2009 that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise dropped out of discussions. These are discussions that have been going on for 15 years. I think it is very good that the parties agree on changes. Not all associations in LO have supported this settlement, but IF Metall, Kommunal and PTK have done so. Then that work will have to continue. It is a strength in the fact that the parties have an agreement. The work on the parts of the agreement that we will take forward in law is under way. I am convinced that, in the long term, this will strengthen the role of the parties, strengthening the role of both parties, including the trade union organisation.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-329	Madam President, I would like There are an incredible number of trade unionists and members of the various trade unions who are not as satisfied as the Prime Minister with the process that has taken place in connection with the changes in, for example, the Employment Protection Act. The government now has the opportunity to obtain the right to deduct the trade union fee. It is possible to bring forward legislation that means that safety representatives must have access to all workplaces. There are great opportunities for the government now to make improvements for the union-organised. It is about strengthening our insurance policies and in various ways supporting the right that is so important, namely the right to organise. My question to the Prime Minister is: why has this not happened? Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the work he has done through the January Agreement so far?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-332	Madam President, I would like Just as Nooshi Dadgostar says, opinions are divided. There are also those who think that was very good, because now we have an agreement in place. We have been negotiating for 15 years, and now there is an agreement in place. Now let's move on! It is faster to convert fixed-term contracts into permanent contracts. The planing is regulated in a way that many have wanted. Not least, the opportunities for transition and skills development will increase considerably. It will serve all employees. In addition, we have already strengthened work environment management. We have reinforced the work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority to investigate workplaces. We have reinforced unemployment insurance. As far as the issue of regional safety representatives is concerned, Nooshi Dadgostar knows that there was no majority in Parliament for that. It is not something that the government can decide by simply snapping its fingers, but it requires a majority in this House. It did not exist, but I still think it is just as right to pursue that issue.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-336	Madam President, I would like At the meeting of the party leaders with the Prime Minister on 15 January, we raised the problem that our 21 regions have different IT systems and that they are not coordinated with each other. Discussing IT systems at the Prime Minister's Question Time may seem a little peripheral, but it is actually a very important issue, because it has a major impact on the quality of care. For example, today's situation means that if a calmarit visits his mother in Linköping and suffers a stroke, one cannot see his full medical records in the emergency room in Linköping or if he is taking blood thinner medicine, for example. This can potentially lead to a life-threatening situation and to malpractice. The fact that the IT systems are not coordinated with each other has also caused problems with, for example, the vaccination reporting, something that the Public Health Agency also raised with the Social Affairs Committee on 19 January. The Christian Democrats have been pushing both in this Chamber and in the public debate in general for a national and mandatory standard for all journal systems throughout Sweden. We have seen it as a first step in the process of phasing out the regions and letting the state take over responsibility for health care. However, for a national standard to become a reality, it is likely that national leadership will also be required for care. At the meeting on 15 January, I thought I heard that the Prime Minister, too, now agrees with our view and can imagine a common journal standard. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he plans to act in order to create a common standard for medical record systems in Sweden during this term of office.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-341	Madam President, I would like Work is under way to strengthen care. It is about developing the choice of care and permanent contact with a doctor and providing resources. Now I am not an IT system expert, so I do not know exactly whether that issue is part of that discussion, but I share Ebba Busch's view that we have much to gain by coordinating in a completely different way there. This applies to both regions and authorities. Most authorities also have their own IT systems, and there we could coordinate considerably better. The most important thing is to facilitate the management of the medical records themselves, so that patients can receive care in different regions and that it works smoothly. That's the most important thing. The responsible minister will discuss this with the regions – both with the regions separately and with the Swedish municipalities and Regions. There must also be a willingness and a willingness on the part of the regions to move in that direction. We do not have such governance that the government can decide that we should introduce a common system of records, but I certainly think that the discussion is justified.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-344	Madam President, I would like If I understand it favorably, I hear a will direction in this direction, but I do not think that is enough. We can control Swedish healthcare much more from the national level if we want. I think it is necessary for us to listen to the care and the nurses and the doctors who say that this is a problem. In the meeting with patients, this involves a high risk of mistreatment, and there are documented mistreatments. We have an anthill of outdated journal systems that don't talk to each other. I'm not saying you should decide which journal system we should have, but it should be a standard. In fact, we had this whole House with us, all parties, on an announcement. The government has thus been given this task. The question is: Are the government and Stefan Löfven prepared to act on this, with a national leadership for healthcare, and propose a common standard for the journal systems in Sweden? In the end, it may actually be about saving lives.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-346	Madam President, I would like I hope I said that I think this is a relevant discussion. It is relevant to consider how to achieve a more uniform system. I can also see, however, that there is a need for the regions to be involved in this discussion. The government and parliament decide to have a certain system of records will have no success. Now I am not saying that this is what Ebba Busch is proposing, but my point is that there is a need for dialogue with all regions and with the organisation Swedish Municipalities and Regions. It must be done in such a way that we have a common job. At some point it should be implemented, and then the regions must be involved. It's going to be complicated-- I'm absolutely convinced-- and then it's going to have to be done right. I don't know exactly where that question is now. I understand the announcement, and it is the responsible minister who has to deal with the issue.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-350	Madam President, I would like At the turn of the year Ringhals closed 1, and the steeply rising electricity prices have given Vattenfall the right price. For the company Vattenfall, it has at least so far been a very good deal. Even more planned electricity production disappeared from southern Sweden. We can choose to see this as the electricity market functioning properly. As demand increases, prices rise and electricity users adapt. The reverse is that the brutal price fluctuations in the electricity market have very serious consequences. Customers pay dearly. Industry has even had to cut production. My question to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is: Would it have been beneficial or unfavourable for the Swedish economy if Ringhals 1 had been operational today?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-353	Madam President, I would like Since we have more electricity generation than ever, that is not precisely the problem, it is a problem of effect. This has mainly to do with transmission: how do we transfer electricity, not least from northern Sweden to southern Sweden? But we also need more cogeneration plants. When the energy agreement was concluded, the aim was to create long-term rules of play, and we did. That is why we now have such an increase in investment in energy production and in electricity production. That's a big increase. We facilitated Swedish nuclear power. We made it cheaper. But it has turned out that you do not want to invest, and that is because the price has often been too low. I have nothing against a low electricity price, but that is actually why there is no investment. With the calculations available, one can say that nuclear power will be about twice as expensive as the electricity we have now. Sweden's companies have the cheapest electricity in the EU.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-355	Madam President, I would like We pay dearly for Polish, German and Danish coal power to pull extra for us. It is not a sustainable policy. With all due respect for the Prime Minister's answer, I think he's a little floating on the case. Therefore, I ask: What is the Prime Minister's message to Holmen AB, which last week saw itself forced to cut back production?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-356	Madam President, I would like Again, we need to build out the power shortage. That is where we have to put our efforts in. That means more power lines. That's why Swedish power networks have bigger investment plans than in many, many years. They're historically large. This applies from north to south, but also in regional networks. Then we will have to expand decentralised electricity grids and ensure that we can store electricity. But we have large industries that are making big investments in Sweden right now because we have so cheap electricity.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-358	Madam President, I would like We have a widespread problem with working life crime in Sweden. More and more often, reports of how, not least, foreign workers, who have been tricked into Sweden by rogue employers, are forced to work in terrible conditions. It is about people who have been promised good wages and working conditions but who are actually being ruthlessly exploited. It should never pay to commit crimes or gain competitive advantages by failing to comply with rules and agreements. We must act vigorously against rogue employers who exploit people and distort competition. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: what is the government doing to counteract this criminal activity, which also costs society both life and money?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-360	Madam President, I would like These crimes upset me. This proves that we in Sweden have too liberal a regulatory framework that makes it possible for rogue employers – it is far from everyone, but there are enough – to lure people here and force them to work in disgusting conditions. That is why we have made sure to increase the work environment agency's ability to control workplaces and the police's ability to go in and look at workplaces. But it is also now a matter of ensuring that employers are given a notification obligation if they are to change working conditions – it is also being sanctioned. It is also a question of extending the crime of organised trafficking in human beings. We will make sure that we do everything we can to stop this. Basically, we would actually need a test: Is there a need for this labor force? Now we don't have the majority for it.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-363	Madam President, I would like There is currently a false picture of Sweden's energy system. Claims of lack of electricity hail at the same time as Sweden now imports less electricity in one year than when ten nuclear power plants were in operation. Renewable energy is exploding, and Sweden has become Europe's green battery through sensible investments. We used to be net importers, but now we export more than before, over the whole year. At the same time, we have a major conversion, where coal power plants after coal power plants are shut down across Europe.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-366	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government works through its authorities to inform about what the electricity market actually looks like. It was nice to hear a nuanced contribution in this discussion. We have a target of 100% renewable electricity production by 2040. It is a goal, but it is not a deadline for nuclear power. The agreement actually simplified nuclear energy, but it is not economically viable, and that is why there is no investment. We therefore have that objective, but at the same time nuclear power will be part of the energy supply for a long time to come. Now we see a substantial increase in investments in wind power. Now it is important for us to make sure that we also get better at storing electricity. There are possibilities. There are very good examples already, but we have to scale this up. And we need to make sure to build better electricity grids, so that we can transport the electricity over larger areas.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-370	Madam President, I would like In the current pandemic, the economic crisis has become a reality. Industry after industry appeals for strong action, but the government only exposes its total inability to take proper responsibility for the country. In Malmö, the Moderates have successfully led the opposition to Social Democratic rule and done what could be done to save a dying bar industry, through, among other things, decisions to allow so-called microcatting in accordance with alcohol law. It is a law that the County Administrative Board does not have the power to advise and therefore does not have the right to review. Nevertheless, the County Administrative Board is making an effort to do just that. We are therefore in a bizarre situation, Madam President, when the government officials on county boards in several parts of the country are violating their powers, challenging the decisions of elected representatives and thereby putting local self-government out of hand. I therefore wonder whether the Prime Minister intends to restore the democratic order that we are used to in this country and to guarantee local self-government once again.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-374	Madam President, I would like I am not quite sure that I understood the question, but municipal self-government is constitutionally protected. That is the case, and then everyone will have to deal with it. I cannot comment on the exact event that Noria Manouchi is describing – that is not possible. But we should also remember this: the support that is issued and designed during this crisis we have not seen the husband of in Sweden ever– not ever. I remember the 2008 and 2009 financial crisis very well. At that time, little was done for the Swedish business community, I can say. Now there's a lot going on. Of course we still have the challenges that Annie Lööf talked about. It is a matter of handling this more quickly. However, we have never seen the support that is now being given to the various sectors that are affected before. But we are still prepared to do more.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-378	Madam President, I would like All empirical experience suggests that asylum migration to Sweden is extremely costly and that it goes out over welfare. Nevertheless, the government is now planning to increase immigration to Sweden by introducing so-called humanitarian protection grounds as a new asylum reason. This is happening at a time when municipal welfare in particular is already on its knees. In my municipality of residence Updinge, we were forced for several years to accept 2 000 asylum seekers on a population of 9 000 permanent residents. Like many other municipalities in the country, we are now stuck with the spring note that the government's irresponsible policy left behind. In 2019 the secondary school of my municipality was forced to close, and just recently the Social Democratic government of the municipality decided to close the retirement home in Norrhult to cover the deficits. Many of the elderly say that they hope to die before being displaced from their home village and relatives. In view of this, I would like to ask the Prime Minister which parts of the remaining welfare in Uppvidinge and similar municipalities the Prime Minister thinks should be scrapped to cover the cost of increased immigration.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-382	Madam President, I would like I think Mattias Karlsson knows that the support that has gone out to municipalities and regions is unprecedented in Swedish history. During the last term alone, SEK 35 billion was allocated to welfare. Now we continue to push further, I think, 35 – 40 billion to Swedish welfare – to school, to elderly care and to health care in the regions. When it comes to the immigration of asylum that Mattias Karlsson is talking about, there were rules that arose during his co-operation party The Moderates' government. We inherited these rules, and these are the rules that we have changed. It is not true that asylum immigration is increasing; it is decreasing. Now, during spring and summer, we will discuss and hopefully decide on a long-term sustainable migration policy. But it also wants an integration policy, and then it does not, as the Swedish Democrats want, hold back on education for people who are going to work.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-384	Madam President, I would like Have a good time in the heat of a Sarakrog. Rose red and sky blue. So sang Hasse & Tage in the 70's. But today it's cold in the taverns... not rose red or sky blue without night black. And despite the fact that the Center Party has pushed forward increased support for the country's taverns, it is flawed in its handling. After all, the Prime Minister is responsible in the government that is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the aid is achieved. He is, as it were, the head of government: responsible for ensuring that the right thing is served at the right time. But the support is not served at the right time. They're too late or not at all. Now we have heard reports from the police that criminal networks are trying to exploit the serious situation of the taverns and, among other things, offer them quick loans when the subsidies do not go forward. Madam President, I would like Society can't take a run bill and leave the taverns in the lurch. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the government act to prevent criminal networks from exploiting a bar industry in crisis?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-388	Madam President, I would like Hanne Hervieu points out precisely what makes it necessary for us to have order in how aid is designed and paid out. For there is also a crime at that end that we must watch out for. Ideally, you just want to pour out money and say, take what you need to cover it up. But it doesn't work that way. We have to deal with taxpayers' money in a sensible way, and then we have to have rules for it. It must be applied, it must be reported and it must be done well. We've already seen that there's a crime here. The answer, of course, is that aid must be designed as efficiently as possible, but we cannot escape the fact that we have the most serious pandemic we have had in a very, very long time. It is difficult for the labour market, it is difficult for different sectors and therefore we design and report unparalleled subsidies in Swedish history and of course ensure that they are paid out as quickly as possible.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-392	Madam President, I would like Breaking the order of priority in vaccination is breaking the Health Act. Whoever has the greatest need should go first. At the beginning of the vaccination in December there was reported uncertainty as to how to use a residual dose. Now we are beginning to see a trend, a pattern, where privileged people go ahead in the queue. Insecure vaccination cannot be used as an excuse. We see managers, managers' families, PR consultants and chief physicians who are not at risk take precedence both in private and in public operations. What measures does the Prime Minister intend to take to stop the possibility of pressing ahead in the vaccination queue? We can see an increased trend, and we fear it may get worse.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-395	Madam President, I would like We agree with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on a priority order, and it is when you follow it that you get paid. I believe that it must be crystal clear in what order this should take place. It must be transparent and transparent, because that is what builds trust in the entire vaccination work. Then I can understand that at the beginning in the regions it was a little difficult to deal with the fact that you planned for a certain number of doses or syringes that you could get out but got something else. Then what are we doing with this? I can understand that questions will then arise, but we believe that it should nevertheless be dealt with in order of priority. Where Sweden's municipalities and Regions and each region discovers such errors, they work to overcome them in an open and transparent way.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-398	Madam President, I would like In the election movement, the Prime Minister said that he wants to stop labour migration to those professions where there is no shortage of labour, in order for the Swedish model to apply. That is, anyone who can work should work. In this House there is now a majority in favour of such a line. First we presented it to the Christian Democrats, but now the Moderates have also put forward a proposal for a form of wage floor for labour immigration which actually puts an end to labour migration to occupations where there is no shortage. The Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have also expressed their support for such a reform. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: will the Social Democrats make a reality of the promise they have made to their electorate, or has this part been negotiated with the Green Party so that they can dictate the conditions in the future?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-401	Madam President, I would like We must overcome the deviations we see in the Swedish labour market. The election promise we made was not what Hans Eklind here expresses, that a certain amount would apply. That is not what we promised, but we said there should be a trial. Where we have a shortage of labour, of course, we must ensure that we have labour immigration, but where we have labour at home that can do those jobs, we do not need this. My favorite model, and there is no majority for what I know, is that you do some form of labour market testing. It does not have to happen as before, but some form of trial should take place. Amounts may sound good, but it may actually be that there is labour that we need and that earns something worse than just that amount, for example doctoral students. It would not be wise to say that doctoral students who earn 28 000 a month are not allowed to come here because they earn too little. Let's try different models. We are prepared to try this too. We need to get to grips with what is wrong.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-405	Madam President, I would like For many years Sweden has been a role model and a leading country globally when it comes to preschool. We now see in various follow-ups that the quality differences are increasing and the equivalence is flawed both between municipalities and within municipalities. We see exclusion areas where it is said that half of the six-year-olds do not master the Swedish language. This risks leading to enormous exclusion, not least in the most vulnerable areas, and the category of staff that has increased most in the country's preschools are those that lack education to work with children in preschool. One of the Liberals' proposals has been to introduce a kind of language requirement for the educational staff. Is it something that the government is also prepared to take forward in order to improve quality and integration?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-408	Madam President, I would like I will have to answer exactly what to do if it is language requirements or not. But, of course, we believe that integration is important, and both school and preschool are a basis for this. We want as many as possible to attend preschool, and once you do, of course, you should also have the opportunity to learn the language properly. It is important to continue to invest in preschool, which is one of the fine examples in the Swedish model that many other countries are looking at, where we have gradually increased the level of the business over the years. We certainly need to do more. I will leave it unsaid, but there is no doubt that we need to have a good business. It should of course include the opportunity to learn the language in a good way.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-411	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, there were two attacks on Spånga Church. We do not yet know who the perpetrator is, but one can say that the person lacks empathy, love and respect. The attack on Spånga Church is an attack on Christendom in Järva and an attack on religion in general. It is also an attack on Swedish cultural heritage. Regardless of the background, we share the same cultural heritage at Järva and carry it with us into the future. The church has been standing there since the 1100s, for almost over a thousand years, and it is an oasis for all of Järva. At the same time, it is not an isolated incident. Since 2012, there have been 829 Christianophobic attacks in Sweden, according to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council. I want to know how the Prime Minister views the attacks and whether he condemns the attack on Spånga Church.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-415	Madam President, I would like Yes, I strongly condemn the attack. It is an attack on people's integrity, freedom of religion and democracy. It is, of course, also an attack on cultural heritage. These are churches, graves, synagogues, mosques, and so forth. Clearly, people should feel safe when exercising their religion or when staying in the churches. We are in the middle of a massive rearmament of Swedish police, and that means that there have never been as many policemen as now. We're gonna need more cops, and we're gonna make sure it is. We have increased the penalties for vandalism, and we have ensured that there is government money to increase the protection of the religions that need to improve security. Of course we can all help to inform the police as well. I strongly condemn this, and we must systematically work to avoid this kind of act.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-419	Madam President, I would like A grocery store where the entrance is framed by a car. A food factory that has to reschedule because employees do not dare to get to work early mornings. A stock exchange company that finds it difficult to recruit foreign personnel to Sweden due to insecurity. There are three stories I have heard from companies in Gothenburg. This week, Entrepreneurs presented their Report Offences against Entrepreneurs 2021. The numbers are frightening. More entrepreneurs are victims of crime, but fewer are able to report. Security costs are increasing for the vast majority of companies. For some, insecurity involves considering the closure of activities. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is satisfied that insecurity is now increasing to the point that it is going out on the company's tendency to develop and invest in Sweden.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-422	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we cannot be satisfied until people feel safe no matter what they do in society, including those who run commerce, grocery stores or whatever it is. We shall be safe in streets, squares, at home and wherever we may be. That is precisely why there are now more police officers than ever before. We're making it easier for the police to set up camera surveillance. At the moment, there are 3 000 people in police training, which means that there will be even more policemen. There is camera surveillance and the possibility of data reading, and we're going to tighten the penalty rates for 50, almost 60, different crimes to mark that they're not okay. More people are in prison or jail than ever. This work must continue, but we must also make sure that we break the new recruits who often commit these crimes.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-426	Madam President, I would like According to Statistics Sweden's statistics, the proportion of the population with low economic standards is increasing in Sweden of the Social Democrats. For the first time ever, the group also accounts for more than 15% of the population, and almost half of all single women aged over 80 live with low economic standards. Many pensioners were disappointed to see the promise of SEK 600 in pension supplements instead being SEK 25 for those with the lowest pension. As usual, the Prime Minister's promise to Sweden's pensioners was thin. The explanation, of course, is that the pension system is bleeding. The Swedish Pension Agency's estimate from 2016 shows that each asylum seeker incurs a net cost of SEK 800 000 for the pension system and the state budget. My question to the Prime Minister is why the government repeatedly chooses to prioritise, among other things, continued immigration before our Swedish poor pensioners.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-429	Madam President, I would like Now that's not true. Since the government took office in 2014, we have made, as I have said before, historical contributions to welfare. We have increased the pension by an average of over SEK 2 000 per month. First of all, it's a false picture. Secondly, this government has made sure to reduce asylum immigration from the former. Then it was a system that was not sustainable. Now there has been a temporary law, and we shall continue to ensure that we have long-term sustainable legislation. The effort on welfare will continue. It concerns pensioners, health care and schools. We will have to do a lot to strengthen our society. One such thing is to ensure that people get to work. Then you have to have an education, and many need education. It is not possible to cut back on education and training, but to increase it and give people the opportunity to get into work and out of poverty.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-432	Madam President, I would like Delayed vaccine deliveries have major consequences. On Tuesday evening at 18 o'clock, the regions were informed of the latest delay and reduced deliveries. Today it was announced that new deliveries are under way but only during the second quarter. The regions are ready. They've procured, and they've made contracts, but it's the vaccine that's missing. Region Skåne judged yesterday that in mid-March the group 65-plus can start vaccination, and the group has completed vaccination in June. Phases 3 and 4 therefore follow. I heard the Prime Minister's reply just now, but in the light of the assessment that Region Skåne and several regions are making today, I wonder whether we can offer vaccines to the entire population before the end of June.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-435	Madam President, I would like First of all, the chord is all adults over 18 years of age, and that's the chord we've put on. There we agree with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. I can't believe they've changed that case. Of course it gets tougher when there are fewer doses in the first quarter. Then we'll push more over to the second quarter. But no one has yet said that we will not be able to do this. We have a deal. It is quite understandable that the regions are frustrated when it gets so twitchy when planning. But that's because everything that's delivered is just produced. It's out of hand. It's just in time. The only way to get a long-term, planned vaccination is to tell the companies that they have to stop delivering for a couple of months and build up a warehouse so that we know exactly how much will come. I don't think anyone wants that. I'm afraid we'll have to live with some uncertainty. But we will help each other, and we agree with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions.
i-7CfvXxfVtXvAmeRKP9PLSK	Madam President, I would like Two Holocaust researchers, Barbara Engelking and Jan Grabowski, were sentenced this week by a Polish court to apologize for tasks in their research. The research is about the fate of the Jews in German-occupied Poland 1939–1945. The situation has been widely noted in the media. The researchers have described in their work and research how Polish civilians helped Jews escape Nazism but also how the locals were forced into a system of angivery, persecution and the murder of Jews. Jan Grabowski visited Stockholm last year and gave a speech in the Great Synagogue. He met Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and participated in a seminar at the Swedish Institute for Foreign Policy. At a seminar at the Living History Forum, he spoke under the heading ..................................................... I wanted to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about the verdict and what he thinks we need to do to strengthen free research and free culture.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-441	Madam President, I would like Freedom of expression is a fundamental pillar of a democratic society. This also applies, of course, to free research, which is a central part of democracy, and perhaps this type of research in particular, which is about the Holocaust. We must learn more. We have to do everything we can to make sure it never happens again. We need to know the truth that this could happen. What happened to individuals? What did the communities look like? What was the role of the state in this? We need to learn from history. Therefore, research is also a theme that we will raise at the Malmö Forum this autumn, where we will make new commitments on how to combat anti-Semitism and remember the Holocaust. The research will be a central part of it. It's about how we strengthen research to learn as much as possible and give ourselves the opportunity to fight anti-Semitism – and racism at all – in the best possible way.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-443	Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the bottom of Europe when it comes to accessing EU funds for infrastructure investment. Denmark, for example, has received more than twice as much money as Sweden. This is not due to any inexplicable injustice, but rather to the fact that the Swedish Government has not applied for several possible projects. Denmark has had ambitious development plans and been on the toes with applying for co-financing, which has produced results. Sweden is quite far from important European markets, and we should weigh this up through an expanded transport system. This is particularly important when we are going to restart Sweden's economy after the crisis. My question is therefore whether and how the Prime Minister intends to work for Sweden to benefit from these funds from the EU infrastructure fund in the future.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-446	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we have increased our ambitions in the area of infrastructure and that we now actually have the biggest plans we have had, but we must continue. Work on the new bill is under way. Once we get there and know which objects are going to be for, of course, money will also be sought. Now there is a new possibility. For us, it is important to do what we can to have the best transport opportunities, but also for it to be climate-friendly and climate-smart. We move more to rail and shipping, and what needs to happen on roads should of course also be climate-smart. This fits very well with the support available at European level, I think, because it is stated that aid must be paid out more climate-smartly. I therefore believe that Sweden has good opportunities to benefit from the aid.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-448	Madam President, I would like Why is it that gross criminal years in and out can continue to run businesses without caring about laws and regulations and without paying a penny in taxes? How can this happen on an industrial scale in Sweden today? This is a question that reporter Johan Fyrk of the Building Workers magazine tried to answer. In 2019 he wrote a gold-spadenominated reportage series entitled Svartjobbsfabriken, which was also published in book form. It is recommended reading for anyone who wants to learn more about how serious criminals work to exploit people, escape taxes and compete legal companies while making rough money. In the report about Svartjobbsfabriken it is about construction, but similar arrangements are also available in a number of other industries. In a report in Svenska Dagbladet on 3 October 2019, among other things, automotive services, nail salons and food and tobacco wholesalers are pointed out as industries that are severely exposed to unfair competition from criminals. I want to make it clear that it is not a question of everyone in these industries engaging in crime – far from it. The problems lie with a few stakeholders. But almost everyone in these industries is exposed to competition from criminals, and this has a negative impact on the entire industries. Madam President, I would like One of the most important elements of these criminal arrangements is the possibility of using corporate goaltenders. It is people who are formally responsible in the various companies and thus both take the blow and give the real principals the opportunity to act anonymously and out of sight of law enforcement authorities. The Svartjobbsfabriken describes how homeless people from Latvia are a popular target group for the criminal networks. A manager at a homeless shelter in Riga describes how one of the residents on paper owned 17 companies in Sweden. It became a problem for the shelter reception to receive all Swedish government posts. But the price is also high for the corporate goalkeepers. A 33-year-old Latvian woman called Jana is offered EUR 70 to go to Sweden, write on paper and act as a corporate goaltender in the so-called Svartjobbsfabriken. After a number of trips, Jana is arrested by the police and is in custody in Stockholm for three months. Jana was pregnant when she was arrested, but she had a miscarriage in custody. The principals behind only moved on to new corporate goalkeepers and were able to continue the criminal activity. Madam President, I would like The fact that companies, or so-called company façades, in seemingly entirely legal activities are used as crime tools has become increasingly prominent in recent years. Behind a legal facade, serious criminals can engage in highly illegal activities, such as undeclared work but also money laundering and various forms of fraud. It is becoming increasingly sophisticated, developed and, as has been said, in some cases almost industrial. Society must therefore face up to this type of crime through increasingly sharp and effective measures. The police and the EFC alone cannot prosecute this type of crime. The whole of society must mobilise to prevent and intervene early in order to put up obstacles and stop serious crime. Since 2019, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, Kronofogden, the Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Tax Agency have been carrying out a joint project to counteract corporate goaltenders. In this work, the Swedish Companies Registration Office, among other things, has tightened its handling and, according to a number of criteria, has now begun to refuse registration. This work is good and has made it possible for the authorities to work together against the corporate goaltenders. However, the Swedish Companies Registration Office itself believes that current legislation needs to be tightened up. Among other things, it calls for a clearer legal basis for the refusal of registration after an overall assessment. The ERC is on the same line. Among other things, they call for the possibility of carrying out deeper checks than can be done today when registering public limited liability companies' boards and for the possibility of making personal statements if there is a suspicion that a crime is planned. Madam President, I would like The need to tighten up the legislation against corporate lawyers and serious financial crime is nothing new – quite the contrary. In August 2019, when the government's work was presented in the media, even the Minister for Economic Affairs himself stated in Dagens Nyheter that it could well be that the legislation had not been followed. He added that cooperation between authorities is important, as legislative work takes time to implement. It is therefore a little surprising that the government parties now feel that a declaration is not needed because the authorities are already doing a job. If the Minister for Economic Affairs' reasoning is to be applied, it is rather time-critical – perhaps even more in the light of the authorities' findings – to initiate a review of the legislation as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight two other issues in this debate. One is about the anomaly that has arisen after the minimum limit on share capital was lowered to SEK 25 000 last year. At the same time, the rules on compulsory liquidation in the event of a shortage of capital were not amended, but the principle that a company whose equity is less than half of its share capital is to be subject to compulsory liquidation remains. This means that a newly created limited liability company with 25 000 share capital will basically be required to liquidate if the company, for example, buys furniture and equipment for its new office. This is, of course, absurd and should be changed. My second point concerns the wave of bankruptcy that has swept over many vulnerable sectors during the pandemic. To take one example, the number of bankruptcies in the restaurant industry increased by 35 per cent last year, and they are predicted to increase even more as restrictions persist. We Moderates presented in the spring a committee initiative to review the deadlines for personal liability during the pandemic. That initiative resulted in an announcement that the government subsequently made without action. It is a pity that the government missed this opportunity to strengthen the possibilities of avoiding bankruptcies of fundamentally viable companies, but there is still time to put in place measures to mitigate the case. Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but in favour of winning time, I only ask for reservation 2 and for approval of the committee's proposal for a decision otherwise.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-464	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 5. So we are now debating the right of association. Then what is it? We've already got some explanations, but I'll take it again. Association law is therefore the right to carry out activities together. These are rules for associations, companies and companies. One can of course go into individual rules and laws that govern, and certainly there is a point in debating specific rules and laws – especially since the great differences between us parties are often seen in the details. The Swedish Democrats have four reservations in the report. This means that our party differs most from the government's policy, if it were to be measured by the number of reservations. All our reservations have it in common that they are about regulatory improvements and simplifications in one way or another. We are also behind the announcement of access to corporate goaltenders, who received a majority in committee to the dismay of the government parties. This made David Josefsson an excellent presentation of, so I will not go into it. There are many who are happy and often talk about regulatory simplification and about giving companies less bureaucracy. I believe, however, that the former alliance government had a clearer objective than today's government. Today's government also has objectives, of course, but as soon as something emerges that seems good or contains the word environment or the word green, it suddenly becomes a new report for companies to report, a new certification to follow or some other additional charge. In her speech, Ola Möller blamed the EU and said that it is the EU that decides what we are then forced to introduce. But why should Sweden always be the best in the class? Why should we always go a little further, demand a little more and put a little more burden on our companies than we have to? I also note that Ola Möller is in opposition to himself when he says that the best way to combat criminal companies would be to raise share capital. After all, it was the Social Democrats who carried out the reduction to 25 000 in share capital. It was not done according to the opinion of all the parties here, because I know that my own party had objections to the 25 000 limits applicable to all public limited liability companies. We thought we should look at a system of increasing share capital. Although we supported the announcement that a company of 25 000 could be set up, it is not the same as a 25 000 company. The government could have chosen to put forward a system in which it will start its business with 25 000 but which will be raised to 30 000, 50 000 or whatever would be appropriate after a certain period of time. Instead, the Social Democrats laid flat for their cooperation parties and hit 25 000 – and now Ola Möller stands in the speaker's seat and says it was wrong. Interesting. Madam President, I would like Before I entered the Riksdag, I worked in the forest industry, far from Rosenbad and the ministers' dinner table. I then experienced many of the additional charges that the government constantly imposes on others. Environmental certifications, ADR cards, green driving licences and various reports were to be produced. Not everything came from the state and the authorities, but what did it did the least practical good. The state often tries to rule in detail on the pretext of getting to the misbehavers. Yet you always miss those who cheat. The reason is simple: you hardly get to anyone who is put in a system to break rules by creating new rules. In fact, the government should also be able to understand that. Even in recent years, the government has introduced numerous small regulatory changes that entail new obligations and requirements for companies. These are sustainability reports, diversity reports and extended audits, to name but a few that the Committee on Civil Liberties has dealt with. However, as far as I can remember, we have not dealt with a single proposal to remove any forceful rule or law. In addition, several of the data to be included in these reports are highly personal and private. It's about everything from gender to skin color and country of birth. All the things I grew up with should have no meaning has suddenly become of great importance. As I grew up, I was told that in the dark all cats are grey and that the important thing is how many mice they catch. The company Tesla published its first diversity report on 7 December last year. In it we can read that what you call whites is over-represented in executive positions. It's something sick when you start calling people by the color of their skin. Further reading, we see that 83 percent of those in the executive position are men, which is higher than in the total workforce where 79 percent are men. Since the figures are related to each other, anyone can figure out that when the company is going to recruit new workers on the floor, the male managers will most likely avoid employing too many women so as not to further impair the numbers and thereby risk their own position. Was that really the effect that was intended with the diversity report? If a company finds it rewarding to compile a summary of the employees' sex, skin colour and country of birth, they should of course be allowed to do so. But in my view it is completely pointless to force all major companies to do this every year. The skin colour actually says nothing about how good the employees are at doing their job and even less about what it is like to work at the company or what experiences and knowledge the employees possess.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-482	Madam President, I would like On 2 December last year we stood and discussed the ESF regulation, and Mikael Eskilandersson told us that he had entered various websites: Skatteverket, Verksamt.se, Bolagsverket, Tillväxtverket and Arbetsförmedlingen. As I mentioned in my speech at that time, it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that is responsible. However, Mikael Eskilandersson was clearly upset that there was no information on the websites he visited. But had Mikael Eskilandersson entered Finansinspektionen's website, he had had plenty of meetings. He had also been told that there are manuals, guidelines, questions and answers on the ESF regulation. I therefore ask: did Mikael Eskilandersson deliberately exclude those who listened to the debate that Finansinspektionen is the supervisory authority and is responsible for this? Or is it that Mikael Eskilandersson is not what he thought in his speech that Sweden should not be, namely the best in the class, that is, he simply missed this out of ignorance? Was it fraudulent behaviour or ignorance that Mikael Eskilandersson displayed in the previous debate?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-486	Madam President, I would like Perhaps we should begin by explaining what the regulation meant and what it was that the government requested the auditors to do. The auditors would therefore check the programming language used and the programming language in which the annual report is presented. I thought it was extremely strange to put this on the accountants in the first place and did a quick search of the places they usually look for as entrepreneurs. I never applied to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority because this is not the first place that entrepreneurs usually search. Of course you can think another lap. It is the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, in turn, that will monitor compliance. But the Financial Supervisory Authority may not be the first place you think about when companies are gathering information. I was surprised that other places, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, did not refer to Finansinspektionen. That would have been appropriate. What is more frightening is that the government, with Ola Möller's good memory, did not have much knowledge of what it was really about, but meant that they were not trained accountants, as Ola Möller pointed out in the debate. But trained accountants don't read programming languages. What I was upset about was that audit firms now have to employ people who know programming languages, which has never been directly part of the auditor's training, as far as I know. It is something new – a whole new one. It is a completely different matter to check programming languages than to check what auditors have previously checked, i.e. that companies are doing well and that the figures are in line with reality.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-489	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Mikael Eskilandersson did not enter the Auditor's Inspection, which also has clear links about this. There are not many of them, but there are to guidelines about precisely translation of programming languages. I don't think it's a problem that the audit firms have to hire people. I guess it's good that people get jobs and get to work. But somewhere you can think about whether Mikael Eskilandersson thinks that the education assignment he argues for in the debate is completed now that Finansinspektionen, which is the supervisory authority, has put it up so that you can email and ask questions to, for example, financial information – fi.se. They have all the guidelines and guidelines lying there, and I can think that what Mikael Eskilandersson is asking for is fulfilled. It is a strange reasoning to say that if you go into the Swedish Companies Registration Office, they should refer further. It's like I'm gonna go into Sturehof and order a Big Mac and they're gonna tell me I can do it at McDonald's. If you're in the business, you know this. It is not as Mikael Eskilandersson points out in the debate that it is any small business. I have all respect for Mikael Eskilandersson's background as a forest entrepreneur and understand that he is not on these pages. But this is about listed companies – big heavy players. That they would not know that Finansinspektionen is the supervisory authority for them is quite unlikely. Again, I have confidence in the Swedish stock exchange companies and believe that they know who supervises them. I am a little puzzled that Mikael Eskilandersson has full control of the auditing standard but does not know that Finansinspektionen has supervisory responsibility. Then I can only conclude that Mikael Eskilandersson either drew a conscious pen or simply does not know the question very deeply.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-493	Madam President, I would like Ola Möller completely leaves the main subject and main subject of the auditors. The problem is that the auditors have never been involved in programming languages. It's not that there's a lot of programmers sitting in our audit firms, and now they're getting a task where they're going to check which programming language and which tags are used and so on. In fact, all companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange will produce their annual report according to these basic requirements, with the right programming language, the right tags and so on. It is clear that they will solve it, but it reduces the possibility for small audit firms to put on companies that are on the stock exchange. Not all the companies on the stock exchange are huge. A lot of the companies there don't put a huge amount of money into it. It can be hundreds of millions, which is not really very much for being a business. Then there are companies such as Volvo, Skanska and so on that have sales of a number of billions. The smallest companies are affected by exactly the same rules when it comes to producing annual reports. It was that the government does not think it is a little strange that the auditors should check programming languages that I thought was the remarkable, because it is a completely new task. It was introduced without listening at all to the audit firms. They said they needed more information, more time to reset and more education about what this really means. But the government doesn't give a damn about that.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-496	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6 in the report. It concerns cooperative entrepreneurship. The Committee on Civil Liberties's report contains many interesting and important issues, which several speakers have raised before me. For me as a centre party, entrepreneurship issues and, in particular, small business issues are part of the bloodstream itself, one might say. This was clear at the Prime Minister's Question Time when my fellow party members asked questions about the situation of small businesses. We really want to highlight, facilitate and pay tribute to these brave men and women who run companies with great passion, for themselves, but also for others to have a workplace to go to. Although we center parties are keen to see that we simplify and improve for entrepreneurs, not all entrepreneurs are good, as previous speakers have exemplified. There are those who cheat on subsidies in various ways, look for loopholes in legislation and engage in purely criminal acts. Of course, we must stop these degenerative practices. It affects those entrepreneurs who are doing well, and trust in an entire industry can be questioned. Madam President, I would like This requires precision, because all too often small businesses, whom I meet, testify that they feel that they feel suspicious when they are in contact with or get questions from authorities. It is therefore a difficult balance. We should protect our entrepreneurs who run their businesses in an honest way, as most people do, but we will get rid of those who engage in criminal activities. A review of existing legislation to combat the presence of corporate goaltenders is something that we in the Center Party support. Madam President, I would like There are many of us who have seen and understood the seriousness of the companies, which have been severely affected, and we understand the importance of getting the economy going so that those who have left their jobs can return there as soon as possible. But many lives have changed fundamentally, and some will not be the same again. It is important that we really turn all the stones around. Some companies will disappear, but new ones will also be created. Then cooperatives can be an opportunity. To run companies together with others and to share work and responsibility is at the heart of cooperative values. It may suit young new entrepreneurs or perhaps those who have not previously planned to start a business. Although the cooperation has always been strong in Sweden, it is a form of association that we do not talk about as much as we do about limited companies, for example. In other countries co-operation is a natural part of the business structure, for example in Germany or in northern Italy, which I had a strong feeling of when I was visiting there. We can look at Sweden. The 100 largest member-owned and mutually-owned companies in Sweden have a total turnover of SEK 400 billion per year and over 100,000 employees. The terms and conditions for companies should of course be general. However, the cooperative form of enterprise lacks some of the prerequisites that the rest of the business community has. Cooperative companies, not least start-ups, need access to investment capital. The legislation for economic associations needs to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the Center Party wants to strengthen knowledge about cooperative entrepreneurship in the education system. Similarly, we want to strengthen the conditions for cooperative entrepreneurship through modernised legislation and access to advice and support for this particular form of company.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-506	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we can address an announcement to the government in terms of combating the presence of corporate goaltenders. The Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish Companies Registration Office have talked about the need for some legislative change to make it more difficult to use companies for criminal activities. I think it is quite natural that we should do as much as possible so that those who trade with these companies can know that they do so within legal lines. And other companies should know that competition is actually conducted on equal terms, i.e. within the framework of the law. Madam President, I would like In 2010, the Riksdag took a first step in reducing the requirement for share capital in limited liability companies from SEK 100 000 to SEK 50 000. In the autumn of 2019, a second step was taken to reduce the requirement for share capital from SEK 50,000 to SEK 25 000. From one point of view, these measures may seem quite correct. It becomes easier to start a limited liability company in terms of capital, as many of our companies that are started are few-man companies and in the vast majority of cases are not in need of so much investment in order to get started. Statistics from 2011 show that the reduction of share capital to SEK 50 000 had the intended effect. The number of start-ups increased in 2011 and subsequent years. The share of new companies started as limited liability companies also increased from 29 per cent to 35 per cent. It can also be seen that the number of start-ups increased in 2020 compared to 2019. If it is linked to the reduced requirement for share capital, we will see a little later. But one effect that has not really been taken into account is that every newly started company normally has liquid problems at the beginning as revenue does not always come directly but expenditure falls on you directly. A far too small capital requirement means that new companies are very likely to have to start their entrepreneurship quite soon with a balance sheet, as they very quickly use the SEK 12 500 which is half the capital requirement in the company. Not only are new entrepreneurs going into a whole new world of taxes, forms and more – it is also necessary for them to enter the world of the balance sheet. The Christian Democrats believe that regardless of whether the capital shortage occurs at SEK 25 000 or at SEK 12 500, it is clear that the rules cannot be considered appropriate. Several government investigations have also described this problem and have pointed out, among other things, that the winding-up and bankruptcy institution and the penalties for offences against creditors are sufficient to prevent companies from continuing to operate in the event of insolvency. The government has also stated that there is reason to consider the need to review the current rules. I hope that this is done. But you're going to get me right first. I am not worried that we will have more bankruptcies depending on whether the share capital is 25 000, 50 000 or 100 000 SEK. However, I am concerned that we have too low share capital along with the rules that we have today, which are unnecessary concerns and administration for the individual entrepreneur. At the same time, an unestablished balance sheet, when the company can be considered to be in default, may mean that one can become personally liable much later, several years later. And the consequences as an individual entrepreneur can then be difficult to see when you are a new entrepreneur. With this, I would say that we have an opportunity to review these rules. I think it is necessary for an entrepreneur to dare to be an entrepreneur. With this, I would like to call for reservation 2 on the capital requirement and compulsory liquidation.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-518	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with a brief look back to understand why we are where we are today and where we are going with regard to what we are now discussing. When the Communist States of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union collapsed in the late 1980s and in the early 1990s they were replaced by free and independent states that developed towards democratic and free countries. It doesn't apply to everyone. Some have not arrived yet, but we must hope that this will happen. This development also led to a relaxation in Europe and throughout the world. We simply went toward a more peaceful time. For Sweden, when it comes to the defence of Sweden, we went from what we called invasion defence to what we called intervention defence, a defence that would defend Sweden's interests far away from our country's borders. I think it is worth reminding you of this today. On many occasions, in the general debate on defence, particularly from the Social Democrats, it appears that the armaments that are now taking place are due to the government that we have and that it is the defence minister's credit. I can only remind the Social Democrats that if they had ruled Sweden even during these years, the starting position would have been significantly worse – almost SEK 5 billion worse in terms of funding. It is therefore the security policy situation in our surrounding world that has changed with an increasingly aggressive and unpredictable Russia. The wars in Georgia and Ukraine are the major events that also affected Sweden and our view of the world and where we are going. But it is also worth mentioning the greater interest in the Arctic from Russia and not least from China. It is therefore the international situation that primarily affects these things. Madam President, I would like In December last year, we adopted here in Parliament a defence bill that strengthens military capabilities and equips Sweden better to face threats, crisis and war. It was necessary, and it was absolutely important. We also largely agreed in this House. The major exception was the longer-term financial framework. This is not what we are going to discuss here today. However, I note that I believe that we will soon have reason to come back to that very point in view of the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces will be providing their budget base within just a few weeks. We'll have to get back to that. Madam President, I would like Anyone who believes that the five-year defence decision that was recently taken was the end of talking about the defence is wrong. Of course, that is not the case. I'd say that was the start. That's the easy part, if I may put it that way. It is now that what the Riksdag has decided will become reality. This is where the units will grow. It is now that the exercises will be more. And it is now that the materials are to be acquired and put into circulation. This is where the trials begin. As we increase our defence capabilities, things will also come up that we need to resolve in order to achieve what we want and that Parliament has decided. I thought in my speech about three areas that we Moderates see as important for us to achieve the objective that Parliament has set itself, that is to strengthen the defence capacity of the country. Madam President, I would like The first area concerns the supply of human resources. This is the single most important parameter for us to succeed in increasing our defence capabilities, something that the Swedish Armed Forces often highlight. I am, of course, very pleased and proud that the committee has responded to the Moderates' proposal to grant reserve officers the right to leave of absence when serving in the Armed Forces. It's a piece of the puzzle, and there are several. Among other things, we would like to see reserve officers also receive the same remuneration as a professional officer when training our voluntary defence organisations, such as the Home Guard or the Marine Guard Corps. Today, the financial compensation is very different. If we are to succeed in getting more instructors to the Home Guard, the Marine Guard Corps and all other important voluntary defence organisations, it is also a piece of the puzzle that we must lay down by giving them the same conditions. We're going to increase the incentives. Another area related to personnel concerns our group officers, soldiers and sailors. They are at times on duty or on a continuous basis, what we call GSS/ K and GSS/ T. That category of staff we see that you have to work more with. We have far too many vacancies today. Here we should look at the incentives we can change in order to get people to seek and, not least, to remain in those professions. The group officers, the soldiers and the seamen who work continuously and at times are, to say the least, an important part of being prepared for action in a very short time. It's not good enough for us to have too much vacancy. There are other areas if you look wide. You can look at the compliance protection for military, police and firefighters. It is, in our opinion, too weak today. If jobs in this sector related to both Swedish military and civil defence are to become attractive and if we are to have more people, we need a wide range of measures. That was far from all that was included in the just-decided defence bill. Madam President, I would like The second area that we Moderates think you need to review if we are to achieve the goals that exist regarding increased defence capabilities is about the possibilities for the Swedish Armed Forces to practice. It is very complicated and takes a very long time today to get the permits required to have a military shooting field or airfield. Those processes are very prolonged. Here the Swedish Armed Forces have already asked the government to see changes for faster decisions. I want to be very clear here. It is not a question of reducing noise or emissions requirements. It is in this case that decisions should be taken much more quickly. Time is very important. Another area concerns the Environmental Assessment Regulation. Maybe it's a little complicated. In short, it is difficult today to combine a permit for fuel, for example, into a secret mountain facility without disclosure of confidentiality. There are many more things to do here. Madam President, I would like The third and last area I want to end by raising is the veteran issue. A great deal has been done in this area in recent years. I'm glad to hear that. But we Moderates think it's time to take the next step and set up an independent Swedish veteran centre. Here competence and know-how could be brought together in health care and support measures. We want to see a meeting place for staff who have been abroad on duty and for relatives of them. We believe that those men and women who have often put their lives at risk for freedom, peace and democracy deserve support in the best possible way. Madam President, I would like With that, I would like to endorse reservation 3 relating to veterans and veteran support.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-541	Madam President, I would like I agree with many of the previous speakers, but I would like to make a small point. The proposal on leave to be compensated for the reserve officer has been tabled in the past. The fact that we are now joining forces to hopefully get a majority in Parliament for an announcement is because we think it is better than nothing. It's really good in many pieces. In our part, we had also brought the civilians. When civil duty is reintroduced, it will also end up in that position. It would have been good if we had included the parts that were mentioned plus this. We will return with that exercise to see if we can get support for it. It would also be interesting to hear what the other parties think. Are you also prepared to work for and think it is good that the reserves that exist should be given leave of absence? It used to be. I had on my battalion backup officer on duty. They were then given leave of absence for this. In some parts when it was very difficult to get a leave of absence they also had to take spares from other engineering units. It worked, too. Of course, this requires some planning, since large exercises are planned well in advance. I will touch on the question of the reserve officers a little more. It is important that reserve officers training at functional schools should now also be reinstated. There are a number. I think there were seven, and there are a number missing. This applies to field work, to take an example, and artillery and anti-aircraft. It's often because you don't have enough students. They come maybe every two years. It is important to support this and also to re-introduce the training of reserve officers there in their schools. The reserve officers have their steps. It's often from company officers, KB, or military training in 15 months. Then one could take ROK1, reserve officer course 1, and then 2nd and 3rd and serve on the units. When they are called in for service, they have a certain salary, say 40 000 – 50 000 kroner. If they're called in, they'll be compensated up to that. They're not supposed to make a financial loss. We'll lose, too. You have to make sure that you pay prices up to the level you had before you were called in. We believe that this is an important part of this. In fact, the most important thing is another part, which you yourself use in writing. It's about having a contact person. I think it's described as a case officer on the unit. That was the case before. He wasn't just doing spares. It was a contact person you could call. Then there were no e-mails and things like that. At first there were no phones, at least not mobile phones. It's about spending on reserve officers. That is one of our priorities in future budgets. Then I thought I'd touch the Navy a little bit. In the investment we have made financially, we have invested in the army. It has been a powerful venture there with every right. In the coming parts we will also invest in the army in logistics units, field work units and connection battalions. It must be raised so that we get a balance in the units and a good balance in our war units. In this paragraph we also see new anti-aircraft systems. There we have put forward proposals on cambots. There are other types and other robots, but this is a very good system. You can pack this on the Visby corvettes. There we want to add additional corvettes and additional marine combat forces. We will come back to that. My speaking time is not at all sufficient to address this. But it is an important piece, and we will invest in the Navy and also the logistics battalions there in the coming parts. What about the Army, the Air Force and the Marines? First of all, the key word is the armed battle. That's the key word that's supposed to be above everything. It's the armed battle that counts. Everything else is good to have, but this is the key word. You should be prepared to die, you should be prepared to kill and you should be prepared to send others to death. That is precisely what it is about, and nothing else – the armed battle. That is why we should be as good on it as possible. We see that the training places are too few. The Swedish Democrats have previously exercised on this, and we therefore think that a military college should be opened in Boden. Boden has military troops, which is essential in this paragraph. You need a college there. In connection with the increase in conscript volumes, we have for a number of years been exercising about opening a recruitment office, and we have pointed out Luleå as a suitable place for this. There is one more thing that concerns us and that we will look at: Why have conscripts been called in with an estimate of muscle factor 3, 4 or even lower? This is very serious. How will they cope with this heavy duty in some cases? We have contacted the authorities, and this is a directive from the Swedish Armed Forces. We need to look at this. When I was in military service, I had an estimate of 7 or 8. We who built bridges had the least muscle factor 8 at that time. This is important in order not to destroy the backs and other things of the women and men who will be able to cope with this. I have already mentioned the recruitment office, and I will mention a little about the budget while we are at it. This is to be paid for, and therefore the Swedish Democrats as the only party so far have set the 2% target by 2030. We see that other parties, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, want real reinforcement after 2025. I believe that it is also possible to set 2% as a clear target to move towards. We think it is very important to make it clear. When you talk about the budget, we can see this in two different ways. Either you have a goal, for example strength of defence, and you see what it costs, and you pass on these funds. That is the policy we want. Or they do as they do now and adjust the targets and say: You get this money, but the goal we set for strength does not apply. Then you have to go back to work and see what you get for the money. Turn this around, and make sure you allocate the resources that are available! As far as training in general is concerned, we think that the special officer training, the speed course, should be discontinued. Every profession requires its education. This military profession has 180 points in war science. That cannot be replaced by 180 points on any other subject, as we are now doing. This reduces the time spent in military science training. It can be reduced, and this is totally unreasonable. That officer is not as knowledgeable as the rest. I usually take medical school as an example. Read a year of science or Greek mythology and you can cut off medical school by a year! No one wants to go to that doctor. Here you have to reconsider, and I will come back to that paragraph.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-557	Madam President, I would like I will talk most about staff issues, because I think they are most urgent. But I'm also going to talk about environmental issues and veteran issues. I listened to the Commander-in-Chief under People and Defense. He pointed out that the personnel supply in the Armed Forces is the biggest challenge in the future. The Center Party fully agrees. That's exactly what it is, and I'm very happy about that emphasis and that he said exactly that. We also mark on our part that this is the moment we are laying the groundwork for 2025. We need to think long-term in terms of human resources. Although some regiments are not to be established until 2025, one must start planning for it now and depend on the initiatives that come from municipalities and regions and surrounding networks. Then it is of course not so successful if we get the signal that it may not be expanded at the pace that should prevail. In fact, it's counterproductive in terms of staff supply. What we are experiencing now is a clear slump. We have had a low level of education for a long time due to a different focus on defence policy. Now we demand both increased preparedness and training of conscripts. As a result, there will be a shortage of officers, and we also have an aging corps of officers. That is the slump we are discussing now, and we will have it for about ten years to come. This means that it is a huge challenge. We know that within ten years, approximately one in five professional officers retires. But there are also opportunities with the pandemic. Survey from Kantar Sifo, for example, shows that government jobs are now more attractive. This is because you want to contribute to society's important tasks, but the state jobs are also more secure. I think it is possible to keep up with this trend and that the Swedish Armed Forces can facilitate their recruitment thanks to this. When it comes to staff recruitment, the Center Party does not say that it is a big grip, but a large palette of measures that need to be taken. Many are responsible – it is the Swedish Armed Forces, but it is also the parties to the agreement, the Association of Officers and the Swedish Employers' Agency, and also the politics, that is, us. I was going to highlight some measures that the Center Party sees as the lowest hanging fruits and what is most important to start with. The absolutely simplest, and the one that I think is the most given, is the group of professional soldiers, GSS/ K, GSS/ T– there are some different names for them. They have a fixed-term employment scheme, i.e. eight years plus an extension of four years. This means that those who came in only in 2010 within a year will fall within the group that must not continue. We think that's very stupid. Instead, they should be permanent and full-time and move on to becoming special officers. Remove the fixed-term employment rule for this group! That would be the lowest hanging fruit. We see that military service is, of course, essential for this to work forward. We must quickly reach 8,000 conscripts. In order to benefit the officer supply in the future, you don't have to invent the wheel. You can use what has been in the past and has worked, namely to recreate company officers and platoon officers. It's important. So these are the longer education courses of 15 months. It is they who create a flow into the profession. That's how it's been before, and we'd love to recreate it. There are also other measures that I think are reasonable. There is an offer for the social partners to extend their employment and postpone the retirement age, which is 61 today, to 65 years. So you save four years. This can be stimulated through certain measures in terms of both wages and development opportunities. It would be very welcome to counteract the slump. Wage setting as a whole is, of course, central. In fact, right now the entry salaries for military missions are the second lowest of all within the Armed Forces. It may not be reasonable if we are to stimulate military recruitment in the future. It is also a question of protecting the returnees. My home regiment P18 that we have restarted has been, and is, staffed with returnees. So it is those who have previously been in the profession and then in the civilian for 15 years who are now returning. One detail is that once you return after 15 years, you come back at the same level of pay as you had when you left the profession 15 years ago. That, of course, is not reasonable. I know that the P18 loses 80% of its officers who retire. It is important to value the specialist officers a lot, and there are many different parts that we will continue with. A basic thing is that we need to achieve equality that really works. One must be able to be in the military, as a conscript or employee, without harassment and violations. I know that the Swedish Armed Forces and the management have marked hard in the cases that have been, which is great. But when we hear these signals, it is evident that this has not always trickled down to the foot people. There is a lot of old culture to take hold of. This is a hygiene factor if you are to recruit staff in the future. I'm a very big optimist. It will go perfectly well to recruit in the situation that we are in right now. I will also say a few things about the environmental side. We are very pleased to have been written into the regulatory letter on conditional permits regarding wind power and other applications. We see this as a great success. It will facilitate coexistence between the Armed Forces and the total defence needs for renewable energy. Total defence will be stronger the stronger the energy supply we have. It strengthens with decentralised electricity generation enabling e-fuel and hydrogen instead of Russian oil imports. Environmental permits are a dear issue for me as a Gotlander. I will say a few words about Tofta's shooting field, which is an example of how today's legislation leads to a legal conflict that locks a very large part of Gotland's development. Today, Tofta's shooting field has an impact area where 4 400 people live. It's okay according to the condition, which is for the time being. However, if it were to come to another home, the whole business would feel threatened. It is, of course, an absurd interpretation, but it is the legal conflict that we are facing. In reality, very few people are disturbed, but this means that a very large part of Gotland's development area is locked. There are also four scattered places called shooting places for indirect fire. If permission were required for areas of influence around them in the same way, the military would block 40 per cent of Gotland's surface with today's interpretation of law. This is not the way we can actually have it. We must find common ground and opportunities for defence interests to coexist with housing interests without reducing demands. That nut we have to help break all of them. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with very much of what Mr Berglund from the Moderates said on the question of veterans. We need to continue working with a veteran center, preferably according to Norwegian model. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 9.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-579	Madam President, I would like Colleagues on the committee! Hello to all of you who are watching and listening at home! Today, the Committee on Defence is debating a great many motions on staff issues. On behalf of the Left Party, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1, which concerns our motion on the Plikt Council. I'll get back to it later. Madam President, I would like It has now been about a year since the coronapandemy began. It has, of course, touched upon many policy areas and many committees in Parliament. For us in the Committee on Defence, the issues of emergency preparedness, civil defence and how we get a robust society that resists major disruptions have become even more topical than they have been in the past. One of the great lessons of this year has been the importance of well-trained staff, good working conditions and that committed people can help when it is really needed most. During the year, personnel and involvement within the Armed Forces, the Home Guard, the voluntary defence organisations, the municipalities' voluntary resource groups, the Red Cross and many other large and small non-profit associations have made enormous efforts to get through the pandemic. For that I would like to say a very big thank you. But we also need to be a little careful about how and with what we expect above all the Swedish Armed Forces and its staff to be able to help. The support of the Armed Forces and the Home Guard to civil society in the event of crises should be large. We need to use all the resources together to combat crises. But we must also bear in mind that there are also regular tasks to be done. A lesson from the pandemic is that the civil organisation for crises, such as how we resist fires, floods or pandemics, must become much larger and much stronger. Madam President, I would like Military service is an important prerequisite for the Armed Forces' personnel supply. All young people who turn 18 sign up and are tested for the possibility of military service. The Left Party thinks this is very good. The compulsory service guarantees a popular attachment to the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. The fact that as many different people as possible with different backgrounds, different education and different interests participate in the defence of Sweden makes our country both safer and safer for everyone. Madam President, I would like In order for conscripts to receive the best possible training and for their life under military service to otherwise be as good as possible, a working duty council is needed. The Plikt Council is a body elected by the conscripts and is responsible for safeguarding the interests of conscripts, dialogue on changes and improvements and examining the existence of conscripts. It is an important body for popular support and a way for society to ensure that the education we have decided to be compulsory for those who are selected is also as good as possible. Since the first new Plikt Council since the reinstatement of military service was elected in spring 2019, the Council has highlighted some organisational problems. The Pliktrådet lacks the opportunity to work independently – for example, it does not have the necessary administrative resources at its disposal. Today, the Plikt Council is part of the Swedish Armed Forces. It prevents the Council from operating independently. There would therefore be a need for a change in the regulation governing participation in activities in order to make it much more independent and independent. We are pleased that several parties support this work and hope to be able to look further at this in the future in order to have a change in the regulation. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a feminist party. Since the reintroduction of military service, it is gender neutral. It is incredibly important that women's participation in defence and security work is increased. It is crucial that both women and men are involved in order for us to have a robust society that resists crises and acute events. The Swedish Armed Forces' activities lag a little behind in terms of gender equality: 17% of conscripts are women. It is quite a long way from a minimum definition of what equal activity means. But – you shouldn't be too negative – the Swedish Armed Forces are working very hard to improve gender equality. Outbound communication really highlights women, makes progress on better equipment and materials, and takes gender equality issues very seriously. It is important that the Swedish Armed Forces continue with this work but also that they talk about the work they do and continue to highlight women as role models so that the new women who enter the military service know that they have people to look up to. To make the Swedish Armed Forces and the entire defence operations more visible in society and more understandable to the public is also important in order to increase understanding of what a modern defence force really is and thus hopefully increase both the knowledge and motivation to want to participate. Madam President, I would like This report also deals with the repeated motion by the Left Party to remove the system of the Armed Forces providing the court with adjutants. Adjutants are highly trained officers with long experience who are lent to the king and Crown Princess to do all sorts of chores during the days, one month a year on a rolling schedule. These should definitely be replaced by civil servants employed. We can't afford to lend our best officers to the king. Our officers will of course do what they are trained to do. The Left Party also supports the committee's unanimous announcement that reserve officers should be given leave to serve within the Swedish Armed Forces. This would make it easier to participate in defence activities while at the same time having a civil profession as the main occupation. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces' activities, like the rescue services, the police and other similar activities, involve great risks. They set high, above all physical, demands and are running around the clock. For the operations to work, we need to work to ensure that the staff have the best possible conditions, so that they want to stay in the profession for a long time, throughout their working time. Wages are not a matter for us in politics. They are, of course, put into negotiations between the social partners. That's the way it should be. But it is important that we ensure that there is room in the budgets to increase the salaries of the personnel employed by the Swedish Armed Forces, but also many other important professions in our society. Wages, good working environment and good working conditions are prerequisites for a modern and well-functioning defence operations in Sweden in the future.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-596	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Military questions and questions about the Armed Forces' personnel. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 under paragraph 6 on a so-called venereal veteran centre. When we talk about military defence, we must first state that we are living in an uncertain time. The threats to Sweden have increased. Not far from here, in fact at a shorter distance than Brussels, is Belarus and its capital, Minsk, where we see unrest. Since 2014, a long time, there is also a war in Eastern Ukraine. It's low-intensity, but it's still going on. We also see tougher exercise patterns in the Baltic Sea. We have a responsibility to respond and defend ourselves. I became a member of Parliament's defence committee ten years ago and have during those years tried to be a vote that we must invest in our defence. For the Christian Democrats, it is a matter of heart that we can defend ourselves. Our freedom is worth defending. Before Christmas, a decision was made on the direction of defence. It's good. There's a lot of money going on. We agree on the first period. But we have pointed out that this must be a ten-year perspective. I believe that the House and those who listen and look at this realise that something can easily be demolished, but building a defence capability takes time. That is why we have always said in the Defence Committee that it must be a ten-year perspective. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, made the point that we want the stairs, which the viewers probably know and which increase by 5 billion a year, to have to continue. It had already had to be established for 2026 and 2027. That would have made it possible to secure the funding. It is not good or credible to point out military capabilities that are needed but not to present the money. That was our criticism of the decision. It must now be corrected. What we said in the Defence Committee was that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. If you have that understanding, you have to act and make sure that you change and correct the shortcomings and problems that exist. How do you build military capabilities? I could make a long speech on that. But basically it is a matter of having the units fulfilled, having the appropriate and the right equipment and practicing. It's not the rocker science. It is clear that this is the way it is. When it comes to suitable equipment, it is worrying that we have long repair queues and old equipment. There's something to work with here. It is important to keep up with developments and to take steps so that there are no delays. That is one reason why we warned against fixing funding now. We can't afford any delays. It's an important thing. Madam President, I would like In the case of exercises, it is important to understand that much is about exercise permits. It has to keep up in the years to come. It must not be pulled on a long bench. I don't want it to be too late. I can take Uppsala, from which I come, as an example. There it will now be invested in the F16. It is a good thing that the flotilla is resurrected. The Air Force is being led from there. The hope is that with the next decision we can also get two divisions. It would be necessary to defend the capital area. However, they and other airports will now need considerably increased permits for air movements. It's obvious. Then it wants to keep up with the process, so that there are no delays and there is a long bench. It is not possible to welcome and be happy for the initiative – I think of Gotland – without understanding that it is noisy. If you have bought a house near a military area, you have to understand that you have to count on some noise. It must go hand in hand so that we do not see delays and delays. Then important military capabilities may be lost. When it comes to satisfied dressings, it has been a major problem in Sweden for a long time that we have had dressings that have not been fulfilled. For example, we saw this during the Aurora exercise. I'm sure a lot of people recognize that. On paper, we have two army brigades. But it was only one who practiced during Aurora. It was just the one that was filled. Now it's important that we get a full unit, so that we can practice for real and have military effect. Several speakers have taken note of this, and the Swedish Armed Forces have pointed out that the most important issue is likely to be the completion of units. Then you also need to become an attractive employer. We know, for example, that it is a problem for soldiers and even officers to stop prematurely. It is therefore important that the Swedish Armed Forces keep up with wage developments, so that they do not lag behind. The Christian Democrats have pointed out that student housing could also be introduced in order to make it easier for low-wage soldiers. They shouldn't have to drop out because they can't pay for their accommodation because they're underpaid. You could also introduce welfare officers on the garrisons. They could address social issues and provide support for relatives. Finally, veteran politics is also important. Since 1948, the Swedish Armed Forces have participated in international efforts and have made great, important and fantastic contributions in many places around the world. We know, however, that many have suffered injuries, physical but also mental. We haven't been good enough to support our veterans. In other countries, such as America, it has always been a matter of course to support veterans and to ensure that they get good conditions. Much has been done in recent years. That's very positive. In our reservation, however, we point out that an independent Swedish veteran centre needs to be established. This could be done free of charge in the form of support talks and care skills. This could be done after the end of military service. The Veteran Centre could help soldiers change their careers. The centre would be independent and provide a meeting place for soldiers, relatives and volunteers alike. In conclusion, the situation for Sweden continues to be tough. We have an elevated threat profile, which we must take into account. It is therefore important for this to become a reality. The points I raised in my speech are important pieces of the puzzle for us to get there.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-615	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10. I do not think I did so in my speech. I'd like to ask Mikael Oscarsson a few questions. The Swedish Democrats have made a proposal, which is well-known, of 2% by 2030. I know that Oscarsson and KD are also talking about the 2% target. We do, however, lay down one. Are you considering setting such a target for 2030, for example, as we have done? I know you've invested money even after 2025-2026 and 2027. There will be considerable sums of money. But what about having such a goal? In our budget, we set a three-year budget. We have had the parliamentary investigation service look into this, and it has been said that it is okay. It would bring great benefits to the construction of the military, but also to civil society, if resources were to be transferred. If you have a three-year budget, you may not spend the money in the first year taking into account the investigations that are taking place on the civilian part. Among other things, this was mentioned in the report Resistance. For this reason, a three-year budget might be appropriate. I am surprised that you do not support the proposal, and I would like to have a comment on it. I would also like to hear your opinion of the Home Guard. We haven't touched on that now. But in the preparation we mentioned that we want to provide them with increased resources in the form of drones, surveillance stagers and more. Among other things, it is a matter of dark guidelines. I would therefore like to have a comment on the Home Guard as well as on other issues, including the three-year budget.
i-XTjw5U3vuk2KxznPX4U98	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Richthoff, for the questions! It's very important to pay for yourself. I hope that my speech showed that this was our criticism of the government. We believe that it is not credible to identify what military capabilities are needed if money is not presented. I put a question about this to the Minister for Defence. I wondered how we could believe he'd have money in three years if he didn't have money today. There is also the risk of delays. We therefore decided that it will also increase in 2026 and 2027. It would release 45 billion by 2030. Such a ten-year perspective is very important to have. The Christian Democrats want Sweden to join NATO. We should do an upgrade. Today we are close partners with NATO, which is a good thing, but we should also become a full member. Sweden is the country in our neighbourhood that invests least in the armed forces. We are at 1% today. That's not good enough. We believe and have said for a long time that Sweden should have the objective of joining NATO. In the meantime, however, we will also make sure to invest the necessary money. Therefore, we and the other bourgeois parties have decided that Sweden will reach the target of 2% of GDP by 2030. Otherwise, we are not credible and cannot see ourselves, our children or our neighbours in the eye. Roger Richthoff asked several other questions, but I would like to ask the question as to why the Swedish Democrats are not involved in pursuing the issue of an independent Swedish veteran centre. This, of course, supports the Moderates. Why don't the Swedish Democrats do that?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-625	Madam President, I would like I didn't get an answer to my question about the Home Guard. Maybe it wasn't that important to Mikael Oscarsson. I repeat: there is a need for increased resources. It is an extremely important part. There are about 22,000 soldiers in the Home Guard. But maybe this isn't so important to you. Yes, we have set the 2% target and want it to be statutory. Welcome to the club! I didn't get any comment on the three-year budget. Incidentally, I was involved in writing the Swedish Armed Forces' first environmental manual. It was written together with Norway, Denmark and Finland many years ago. It certainly needs to be improved considerably. We've been talking about this. I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at what noise zones look like, as it is so beautifully called. I had taken Kungsängen as an example. There you must not extend even a porch, as it is within a noise zone. Why is this so? The municipality says yes, but when you ask the Swedish Armed Forces you always get a no as an answer. This involves, among other things, complications with appeals. This is a major problem. According to RUT, if I sum up, the environmental code clashes with other legislation. This therefore needs to be reviewed. This question will later be addressed to the Social Democrats and to some extent to their support parties. As far as NATO is concerned, we say a clear no. Why? Yes, because if we join NATO, Finland probably does, even if we do not know. Making the Baltic Sea a NATO sea is certainly not a stabilising factor in our part of Europe.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-631	Madam President, I would like Let me first address the issue of NATO. It is welcome that the Swedish Democrats have taken the step and want us to have the same attitude as Finland, that is, to have a NATO option. However, I hope that you, like the majority of your constituents, will take the consistent step towards membership. But we have to take one step at a time and be happy about what exists today. The Home Guard is extremely important. Voluntary organizations at all, as well as the Home Guard, have been at the heart of the Christian Democrats of all times. We have fought for them in the Defense Committee, as Roger Richthoff knows, in order to increase their resources. It's not good enough just to say that they should do one thing or another if you don't give them equipment. It won't hold. It is therefore important that this is linked. Without the Home Guard, our defense would be very small. The Home Guard is a core bolt in our entire defense. I do not really know what Roger Richthoff means; we have said that we want this 5-billion-dollar search and then move on. From what I understand, Roger Richthoff also supports this. Like us, he seems to want Sweden to reach up to 2% by 2030. I think Roger Richthoff at the speed forgot to say something about why the Swedish Democrats do not support an independent Swedish veteran centre. He can answer that on another occasion.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-635	Madam President, I would like It is a pleasure to hear Mr Oscarsson, for whom I have great respect. He's been on the defense committee for ten years. I've only been sitting there for two and a half years. This means that he knows more, but it also brings me to various questions. As the honourable Member heard, I described the effects of a re-establishment of the military on Gotland. This applies to Tofta shooting fields and what is called external shooting places for indirect fire that can block up to 40 per cent of Gotland's area for residential construction. When I hear Mr Oscarsson describe Uppsala and the re-establishment there, it clearly strikes me that you risk an exact parallel. Then it will be for new environmental conditions, and there will be new impact consultation. In this situation, it is not only Uppsala that is at risk of being restricted, but with current legislation it is the whole of Upplands län that risks being limited. Then we are talking about limiting housing construction in a very broad sense, without any compensation whatsoever to the property owners concerned who would otherwise have expected to be able to build and exploit. If we do not have a change in legislation on this state of the environment, then there will be dramatic consequences on the places of re-establishment that we see. We also have another example in Skåne, around Revingehed. My specific question to Mr Oscarsson is therefore: are the Christian Democrats prepared to support the Centre Party's proposal to change the rules on environmental permits so that you can co-exist with housing without lowering the requirements for the military?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-639	Madam President, I would like In fact, I have been involved in this exercise area for many years. Because it is so closely connected, this with fully completed units, materials and exercises. Without the three components, you won't have any military capability. During these ten years there have been several cases up where it has been very close, if you say so. I am thinking, for example, of a case in Blekinge where there were plans for a wind farm and other things that had made it possible for the Air Force and the Navy to practice. There are few places left; at one time we had lots of practice areas in Sweden, but they have decreased. Therefore, it is very important to be careful about these areas, for if you are to have a military ability you must be able to practice – and then it must be noisy. I don't mind looking over if there are things in the legislation that can be done with coexistence, but it sounds like something you can look at. But that must not in any way hinder our ability to practice. That's what I wanted to send you now. There are places that have every reason to be happy for the investments made and welcome them. They are needed and necessary to build military capabilities. But then it is not possible, as it were, to applaud this one day and then join groups that try to prevent it by not giving the necessary permission and making the process any longer. It is therefore a matter of political cohesion and of understanding that it must go hand in hand with creating opportunities for practice.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-642	Madam President, I would like I think Mr Oscarsson misunderstands what I am saying – I am the first to admit that it must go hand in hand. It is not a question of limiting the possibility of practice, and it is not a question of limiting the authorisation possibilities for the Swedish Armed Forces at all. That is fundamental; that is why the Swedish Armed Forces exist, and that is why they have received an environmental review permit. Instead, it is a question of finding legislative changes that make it possible to coexist with housing and other activities despite the fact that the permit exists. That's what matters. If you do not succeed, Uppsala will be in exactly the same position as large parts of Gotland are now in. I am pleased that Oscarsson is opening up to review the noise rules, which in practice is about. I can see, of course, that one could very well find a solution that only takes into account the indoor environment in the areas exposed to noise – the impact areas – or where one takes back the reasoning we have about noise from traffic. There you talk about a quiet side and a noisy side. Both those entrances would solve the coexistence issue, because in practice people do not experience any problems. People are used to the noise. This leads to the opposite problem: It creates a great irritation to the Swedish Armed Forces, which comes in a bad light and impairs their ability to recruit personnel. So it is a win-win relationship if we can resolve these issues. I will end by asking again: does this mean that the Christian Democrats are prepared to take an initiative and follow up on this discussion? As I see it, this actually needs to be resolved quite urgently.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-646	Madam President, I would like It seems that we agree very much, and that is a good thing. We agree on the importance of practice, training fields and that it must be allowed to be shot. It has to be noisy, and you have to test it. For if the evil day that we hope will never come, it must work, and therefore all the defence teams must practice. That's what was so important about Aurora, and that's why we have to have that kind of exercises time after time. This also applies to civil defence – it must practice. There we have a lot to learn from Finland, where you involve the business community and find opportunities to hook your arm and build a total defense. These are important steps to take. I am absolutely in favour of co-existence, and it is important to find models that do not make it possible to sue the Swedish Armed Forces later. These are legal issues, and I think there is every reason to look at it. What we can be absolutely sure of is that, as a result of the defence decision, there will now be a need for increased training permits for the Swedish Armed Forces around Sweden.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-649	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by giving the following reassuring information to all those interested in defence policy: Liberals' defence policy giant Allan Widman is still in Skåne because of the weather. So this is not a permanent coup on my part, but rather a peaceful jump in orderly circumstances. Madam President, I would like There are many issues here that concern the personnel of the Swedish Armed Forces, and these are issues that have a crucial role to play in how we can cope with the upsurge we decided on in this House just before Christmas. Like previous speakers, I would like to raise three important issues from the report. The first question concerns the working conditions of the Council of Obligations which has been set up since the obligation of total defence is now applied to military basic training. We understand that the first few years have been difficult for the Council. They have been sitting in rooms that have lacked work equipment, moved around with their activities, lacked the temporary accommodation rooms they need and so on. The Left Party has made this important point in its motion, and the Liberals find it regrettable that a majority of the committee has not been able to be put together behind the motion. The second issue concerns the right of reserve officers to leave for military service, Madam President. This right exists, for example, for soldiers on duty, group officers and conscripts – but not for reserve officers, who are actually employed by the Swedish Armed Forces. On 15 December last year, we decided that the volume of trained soldiers should be doubled until the next defense decision, and if that goal is to be achieved, all available categories of personnel in the defence will be needed. If reserve officers then do not have the right to leave their civilian professions when they are to serve, much of the point of that particular decision disappears. The fact that the House is most likely to make this an announcement seems obvious. The Moderates should pay tribute to the fact that they have raised the issue. The third issue that we in the Liberals want to highlight concerns civilian personnel in international efforts. For almost ten years now, a special law has been in force in support of military personnel who are making an international effort, the so-called veteran law. It gives military veterans and their close relatives the right to support, help and information before, during and after an operation. No one is questioning today that soldiers and officers should receive these rights when they put themselves at great risk on behalf of Sweden. However, nurses, police officers, rescuers and other civilian personnel working alongside military personnel or in the framework of a civilian operation are not entitled to equivalent support. The issue has been investigated, but the current government has shown no sign of wanting to implement the proposals. We find that regrettable. This is despite the fact that the risks to civilians are often at least the same as for military personnel. Many times the vulnerability is perhaps even greater by the fact that civil intervention is normally smaller and lacks infrastructure in the form of well-protected campers. Let me take a concrete example. We believe that there should be no difference in support if you are sent by the FBA to the Special Observer Mission in Eastern Ukraine and spend nine months in let's say Kramatorsk compared to if you are part of the Armed Forces mission in Mali. We Liberals are proud to have contributed to the protection and support of soldiers and officers. But now the same rights must also apply to the civilians who are sent by our state authorities in missions around the world. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 7.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-659	Madam President, I would like If there is anything that has so far marked the 2020s, it is pandemic and political instability. There are two parts to which we constantly have to relate. In Russia, opposition politician Navalnyj is imprisoned after returning after last year's poison attack. In Myanmar, the democratically elected leadership has been reassigned and captured by the military. After another undemocratic election in Belarus, we have seen demonstrators treated with violence, unacceptable violence, and how the situation in the country has developed in an even more problematic direction. In the United States, the previous President is currently being impeached after, among other things, unfounded allegations of electoral fraud incited to what led to a storm of the Capitol, the heart of American democracy. At the same time, all countries have faced a huge challenge with the pandemic that last year took over the world and has turned our everyday lives and our political processes upside down. For years, we have been talking about defence policy that we are in a troubled time and a troubled world situation. Unfortunately, it has just become more and more true. To be equipped in the face of crises, both civil and military, is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure our democracy and well-being. That is why the total defence decision that we decided on in this House just before Christmas was so incredibly important. This means a historic strengthening of the defence and a major expansion of the activities. It is a reinforcement that – unfortunately – is really needed. Madam President, I would like This summer we visited Social Democrats in the Defence Committee, the hunting battalion in Arvidsjaur. During the visit, we met a group of recruits who were at the end of their first survival exercise. Although they were in the middle of a tough exercise and had not been fed in a few days, they impressed us with their enthusiasm and sharpness. Several of them, including a young girl, told us that they had never really thought of military basic education as an alternative and that they probably wouldn't have ended up there if it wasn't for military service and that they were called to sign up. Now not only do we fill the places on the basic education, but we reach more than those who would otherwise have taken an interest in the Swedish Armed Forces and the basic education. And we have far more war-placeable soldiers and sailors at the end of each year of education than we had in the years when duty was dormant. We often talk about the challenges we face. However, we must also note that the political decisions of the last few years have brought about a positive change, not least in terms of the personnel supply of the Armed Forces. In line with the establishment of the reactivated military service, we see, for example, a sharp increase in the number of applicants for the officer programme. A few days ago, the Swedish Defence University presented this year's figures. From about 500 in the last three years, there has been a large increase. By the time the application closed on 31 January this year 1,007 people had applied. This means that for the first time we have over 1 000 applicants for the officer program. Happily, women have accounted for quite a large part of the increase. This year there are 264 female applicants compared to 70 applicants both 2017 and 2018. In 2015, 13 per cent of those registered on the officers' program were women. By 2020 it was 25 per cent. This is a clear increase in a short time. The importance of re-imposed military service for the entire staff supply system is clear. Last year, approximately half of the applicants came to the military programme directly from the military training programme, and the Swedish Defence University itself has stated that the reinstated military service appears to be one of the explanations for the great increase. Since the reintroduction of military service, the proportion of women in basic education has increased slightly. However, it is still far too small a part. Over the past two years, the proportion of women has been around 17%. In addition to the assessed ability, the summoning is influenced by the applicant's interest in military service, i.e. by the individual who fills in the criteria. Unfortunately, we still see a clearly lower interest among women than among men. However, the lower interest among women is not surprising given that military service has previously been male. For generations, our fathers and grandfathers have been called to sign up, while for women it was not even possible to apply for military training until 1980– and then only in a few areas. Only as late as 1989 did women have access to all services and all parts of the Swedish Armed Forces. Until 1994, women were required to apply for military service. And it is only now with the reactivated duty that women are called to sign and military service on the same terms as men. Thus, it may not be surprising that fewer women think that military education is something for them. But even if it is quite understandable, it is problematic. It is problematic for us who want an equal defence force, and it is problematic for those of us who want us to have the very best soldiers and sailors. Here's a job to do. Madam President, I would like Reserve officers, i.e. officers who have their main occupation outside the Swedish Armed Forces but who can, if necessary, go in and solve tasks, are extremely important for our preparedness and for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to carry out their tasks and produce fully staffed military units. The fact that reserve officers are not entitled to leave of absence from their regular duties to serve in the Armed Forces in the same way as, for example, sometimes serving soldiers is problematic, as it undermines the entire system of reserve officers. We Social Democrats agree that this is extremely problematic. In the regulation letter for 2021, the Swedish Armed Forces were commissioned by the Government to compile the need for different categories of personnel from a ten-year perspective. We Social Democrats think it is important that we get a comprehensive picture of what needs and challenges the Swedish Armed Forces identifies, so that we can also handle this together. With the defence decision taken before Christmas, there will be strong growth, which will also have an impact on staff upfilling. This is therefore one of the most prioritised issues to deal with for us. Once the Swedish Armed Forces have come in with their basis, we also know which knots we have to dissolve and which political decisions must be made. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of you who, every day, are risking your own lives to maintain Swedish and international security. Defence policy is very serious. Every day, soldiers and other personnel contribute to providing security around the world. They do so by exposing themselves to great risks and working in harsh environments. But it is not only you who participate in efforts to be thanked, but also your families, friends and other close ones – all of you who make it possible for our soldiers every day to do their jobs, all of you home heroes who make the effort possible. It is our task to ensure that those involved in an operation have the greatest possible support on the ground and the best possible support when they come home. I am pleased that we agree across the block on the importance of veteran issues and that they must continue to develop. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-684	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask how the Social Democrats view it, should we say, newly awakened interest in emergency stocks, food stocks, regional commanders and pharmaceutical stocks. You have developed and highlighted the importance of this in Resistance and to some extent also in Värnkraft. That is one question. The second question I have is whether the Social Democrats share the view I expressed in my speech earlier: that different vocational training requires different subjects. This goes without saying. Do you share that view? These two issues are the most important. Then I would like the Social Democrats to think about it. We were just talking about presenting a three-year budget, with the benefits of facilitating it. Every year hundreds of officers and others are counting money to return money or, as we did then, spend the money as quickly as possible so that you do not get lower funding. It's completely unreasonable to use the officers' corps like that. Hundreds of officers sit and count, and not just for a day. This did not occur at the time I was working; then half a day was spent on this. I have nothing against order, but I would like an answer as to why you cannot think it is a good proposal and discuss it. That surprises me very much. That's the questions I had. The first two are most important – that different vocational training requires different subjects and how you view this.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-689	Madam President, I would like I am a little unsure exactly what Roger Richthoff is referring to in his various questions. I am somewhat unsure as to what the honourable Member is referring to in terms of vocational training. Of course, depending on the vocational training you read, you should read different things. You're welcome to clarify exactly what you're after, and I'll be happy to answer. When it comes to emergency stocks and so on, we think that this is incredibly important. We see, not least during the current pandemic, how important these issues are. We think there are different models that are interesting to look at. I think, for example, that the Finnish model of the Supply Emergency Response Centre could be quite interesting, but there are different ways to go. But we certainly think this is important. Finally, economic order is one of the most important issues. We are constantly struggling with the money being enough. This applies not only within the Swedish Armed Forces but throughout society. The tax money we receive we want to go to what they are intended for, and we will use it in the most effective way. As I said, this applies to the Swedish Armed Forces, just like everything else. It is, of course, one of the major challenges of policy to keep giving priority to resources. This issue is therefore an absolute priority. Of course, we think it is important that the Swedish Armed Forces ensure that the money is in order.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-692	Madam President, I would like The issue of vocational training was linked to the speech I made earlier. The officers' schools are now introducing a fast track. You normally read 180 points of war science, except exercises and other things. Now there is a fast track in, so you have 180 academic points in something else you can shorten the officer training. War science is cut short, and these officers are being sent out. This is where I think different vocational training requires different subjects. An officer is going to study war science and get his 180 points there. It'll be three years and then a year on the unit, but that's another thing. The second point I made was whether the Social Democrats believe that we need emergency stocks. At Folk och Försvar we had Minister Ygeman, who said this: Today, civil defence will also meet the needs of the Armed Forces. Anyone who only looks back on a civil defence as it looked in the past, with food stocks, regional civilian commanders and protective masks might wonder how this is to happen. But a modern civil defence should not be based on the structures of the past. It would not work, and would not equip us to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges. ..................................................... It is therefore liberating and nice to hear that you do not share Ygeman's view. Now he's in another position, thank God. We have had the impression that he is talking in the night cap, and I think that is confirmed in this paragraph.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-695	Madam President, I would like To begin with the last question about emergency stocks and Ygeman's quotes, one can generally say that there is always a lot to take with you from past experience. But to think that you should build things in exactly the same way as before is very rarely reasonable. That is also what Ygeman said very clearly in the quote. That is not to say that we do not have a great need for emergency stocks and so on. But that it would look exactly the same as before-- no, that's probably not the case. It is quite little in the world that looks and works as before. This must still be done in the most effective way. Okay, now I understand that the honourable Member is looking for the question of the shortened officer program. Isn't it amazing that we have different ways of becoming an officer and that we, who have such a lack of officers, can have a fast track of the profession? The assessment has been made that those who have 180 points in certain subjects can take a short course. It is not the case that there is no training at all, but that there is still one year of training on exactly the subjects requested by the honourable Member. But the fact that there is a point in taking advantage of other knowledge that people possess is amazing, isn't it? And if this can give us officers at a faster rate, I don't think there's any problem with that at all.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-697	Madam President, I would like It is always interesting to listen when the Social Democrats speak. You talk warmly about veterans, conscripts, reserve officers, and so on, and that's pretty much it. But when it comes to making decisions to make things better, it gets thin. Then you refer to investigations, collected pictures and some other things. After all, it is the result and the workshop that counts. Madam President, I would like I highlighted an important part that dealt with the conditions for reserve officers when they work as instructors in the NGOs. As you will all know, the Social Democrats tend to use the concept of good conditions. But here it does not seem that the Social Democrats think it is so important to have the right conditions. There are apparently different conditions here, even though you have the same tasks. I asked the Minister for Defence if this with the right conditions was important for the Social Democrats when it is the LO unions who think so, the same LO unions who also support the Social Democratic Party with money. I would like to hear Alexandra Völker reply: why do the Social Democrats not think it is important to have the right conditions for reserve officers when they serve as instructors in, for example, the Home Guard or the Marine Guard Corps?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-700	Madam President, I would like It is interesting when the Moderates talk about a workshop linked to military service and other challenges within the Swedish Armed Forces. We can only conclude that it has now been about six and a half years since we took over the Ministry of Defence from the Moderates. The first thing that was done was to reintroduce rehearsal duty so that we could start practicing with full bandages. Then the process of reviving military service began, which in a way has saved our personnel supply. Before that, we had in principle a lost decade of empty chairs in the training places, which is one of the reasons why we now have so great a problem with staff supply. If there's anything we've delivered, it's a workshop. In addition, during this period we have seen historical additions to the defense. I know that the opposition would like to take credit, but all I can say is that it took a Social Democratic Minister of Finance and a Social Democratic Minister of Defence to get those appropriations. Of course, it's important to us with fair terms. This applies in all sectors. This also applies within the Swedish Armed Forces. I know that there are many elements that would need to be improved in the case of reserve officers. But we Social Democrats are also very clear that we think that the Swedish model and the social partners are important. Very much of what has been touched on in the debate here today is, of course, something that concerns the Swedish Armed Forces as an employer and therefore something that we as politicians cannot really get into.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-703	Madam President, I would like It never beats f el: When Social Democrats are to defend something that they are not really satisfied with, it is always the fault of the alliance government. As I pointed out in my speech, we are not equipping Swedish defence for changing the political colour of the Minister for Defence, but for changing the international situation. The need to defend Sweden and strengthen our defence capabilities has grown. I think everyone understands that. I do not know if Alexandra Völker missed what I said in my speech: it was fortunate that it was an alliance government that sat, because for three years after 2008, when Russia had invaded Georgia, the Social Democrats proposed cuts in the defence budget by a total of 5 billion. Thank God we had a moderate Minister of Defence back then! I can respect the fact that Alexandra Völker does not want to discuss matters relating to the social partners. Instead, I would like to ask her about the environmental conditions, which have been raised several times in the debate here. An environmental permit for a shooting field or military airfield normally takes between 5 and 20 years. That's way too long. There are permit applications waiting for a decision from the government that has been there since 2012. So they're in their ninth year. Do the Social Democrats intend to act in accordance with what the Swedish Armed Forces have provided and facilitate and speed up the processes? I had an interpellation debate on this with the former Minister for Environment and Climate Change, Isabella Lövin. There was interest a little cool, if I say so. But now I ask a Social Democrat and see if I get anything else in answer.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-708	Madam President, I would like Now I am curious: I am very well aware of the international deterioration that has taken place in recent years, but I find it difficult to see what exactly happened in the two months between the fact that we had a bourgeois Minister of Defence and the fact that we had a Social Democratic Minister of Defence who began to deliver new political proposals. To say that it is only about the world situation is to make it quite simple. I would also like to emphasise that if we had had a Social Democratic Minister for Defence, we would not have abolished military service. We can certainly have a discussion about which decisions would have been taken and not if we had had another government. This state of the environment is probably one of the eternal and – as so much else – complex issues that we have to deal with. There are different factors that we must constantly weigh against each other. Only here today have we heard quite a few examples of different aspects and different interests that need to be taken into account. It is about the interests of citizens, such as housing, and the environment in which we live. It is about ensuring that we grow up in a safe environment in all possible ways when it comes to both safety and environmental toxins. We must make these difficult balances, and that is a constant challenge. It is not easy to say that you should only get environmental permits. We must also ensure that we can always protect the environment. But it is also very important that the Swedish Armed Forces have the opportunity to train properly. Unfortunately, I cannot give a simple and straightforward answer to this today, but these are absolutely priorities for the government.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-713	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Alexandra Völker a few questions. The first concerns the civil commander-in-chief, who was an important part of the Defence Committee's proposal to strengthen civil defence. We agreed on that across all parties. But how do the Social Democrats really view this? After all, there is now a pandemic and, unfortunately, major crises are likely to occur in the future. Then we must be well equipped. An important part of the proposal was that there would be six areas, in the same way as health care areas, and that one of the governors would be commander-in-chief and would have all the resources and be able to look at how to solve the task. Is this something that Alexandra estimates is in the drawer, and will this proposal be serious? Now I come to the second question. It's important to have an organization. In the event of a crisis or a war, there must be clear decision-making. Then we pointed out the importance of MSB coming back under the Ministry of Defense. What about that? Then I wonder what was the real reason why you did not want to join in giving reserve officers the same conditions as the staff category GSS/T has? Why don't you want to be on that announcement? That is a specific question. I also wonder about this with an independent veteran centre. Would that not be an appropriate step as a continuation of strengthening the important work of better responding to and helping veterans?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-718	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions there, and I'll try to answer them all. We are behind the announcement. We have not opposed it, because we fully agree with it. This is an issue that has already been highlighted by the Ministry, and it is actually part of the task that the Swedish Armed Forces received in the regulation letter for this year. It is about identifying the needs of human resources, and we see that this is likely to be one of the needs. We had a special opinion – I see that Mikael Oscarsson is browsing his papers – where we clarify that we wish that this would be dealt with together as something is going on. But we have nothing against the issue, and that is why we are also behind the announcement. With regard to the question of MSB and which department it should be under, I believe that Mr Oscarsson is well aware that it is the Prime Minister who appoints the government and decides how it should be organised. The question of which authority should be under which department should thus be addressed to the Prime Minister and no one else. Then there is how we organise civil defence and civilian commanders. It feels like it is a little outside today's debate. But at Folk och Försvars konferens we got a first review of Barbro Holmberg's investigation. It is precisely about the governance of civil defence. I think that this is an issue that we will certainly have to come back to. Finally, I raise the issue of an independent veteran centre. We introduced a veteran centre at the Swedish Armed Forces only a few years ago. I think it's good to see how things develop before you do something else.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-724	Madam President, I would like The clarification is great, because it is a very important part that reserve officers get the same right and that it becomes a workshop. It is about making sure that it works in practice and that we get to the point where we get the bandages. It's a very important part. Yes, it is true that it is the Prime Minister. It was Stefan Löfven who changed this without really giving any reason. MSB and the authorities that existed before have been under the Ministry of Defence for the simple reason that it should be a clear order. It must work in a crisis and at worst a war. But I'm getting a little perplexed. This was something that we agreed on in the Defense Committee. The Socialist Members did not reserve themselves in any way, but this was something on which Björn von Sydow and we all agreed. It was, like, an important part of civilian commander-in-Chief's arrival in order to rebuild a civil defence. I hope that Alexandra can look into this a little more and that she may be able to hear with the Prime Minister in private if it was a mistake that was made when the party colleagues, led by Björn von Sydow, took part in this and saw that it was an important part in recreating a civil defence. I would therefore like to say that this is an important order for a civil defence to be restored.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-729	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister has given quite clear reasons why it chose to place the Swedish Civil Protection Agency under the Ministry of Justice and the Minister for the Interior. It was precisely because the post of Minister for the Interior was set up. Civil emergency preparedness was thus gathered under the same umbrella. I can see that there are quite a few gains in that, and I think that the honourable Member can do the same. We have brought together the civilian crisis organisations. We have gathered the civilian crisis authorities. We thus have a clear crisis preparedness function at the Ministry that is working on this not only when there are actual crises but also in non-crisis times, or what to say. I am somewhat unsure whether Mikael Oscarsson believes that this would be one of the most important issues in terms of civil defence. I do not think that the question of which department the authorities are under is perhaps the main issue in terms of civil defence. However, as I said earlier, a large and important investigation is under way. I think we are all waiting with excitement for it to be published and for it to be read properly. When it comes to the question of how to organise our civil defence and how to stand more robustly when it comes to society's crises, we need to be properly prepared and have a proper basis, because we need to see that it really works. When we introduce civil defence again – one must almost say – it must be done properly. It must not be pushed forward; it must actually work over time.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-734	Madam President, I would like I asked for more time to answer the questions. I always want to answer questions, and I didn't have time before. It's about the veteran center. Those of us who have been in UN service a number of times know roughly how it worked then and what improvements are today. I once came back on a Friday, and on Monday I was on duty — the end of the day. It's improved a lot. We have a meeting scheduled with the management of the veteran center. We will listen, discuss and then come back with a proposal that has been worked out. We will, of course, deal with this issue so that it will be as good as possible. I have no other opinion. The need that exists today was also in the past, but we did nothing about it back then. We comrades helped each other. It was based on it then. Well, then I think it was a somewhat startling response from the Social Democrats. So they seriously believe that in an officer's training you can read 180 points in Greek mythology and then cut the education by two years. It's no problem. It's even good. There are other aspects to this. Shorten plumber training and medical school and add Greek mythology! That is a totally amazing answer. The officer requires war science, and that's 180 points. Then he's going out to serve. We're not going to have any B-teams training our soldiers for the armed battle. It's not gonna be okay. Then there was Ygeman. He hasn't said exactly that. But now we are starting a collaboration with Finland, which built its emergency stocks according to the Swedish model. It's working perfectly today.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-742	Madam President, I would like Swedish preschool has finally begun to get the attention it deserves. It is important because it constitutes the knowledge input that will prepare a child for the rest of its lifelong learning. It all starts with the language; we know that now. Therefore, it is really quite incredible that in Sweden we still do not have the right tools for early detection and therefore also be able to support children who need special language interventions to learn Swedish. It is, in simple words, our duty as a society to ensure that every child has a dignified chance. Therefore, we Moderates propose a compulsory language preschool for all children who need it. The need can be detected during extended three-year checks at the BVC. And each municipality should be able to guarantee a good language-supplementary teaching, based on the needs and conditions that exist. Madam President, I would like International measurements make it clear that preschools have a positive impact on the child's continued schooling. Access to a high-quality preschool with high educational ambitions can be crucial to breaking the inherited exclusion. Thankfully we have many fantastic people out in Preschool Sweden who every day make an invaluable contribution both for the children and for Sweden. However, it is not good everywhere. We will have to read about rogue actors, about shortcomings in quality and about situations that sometimes even pose a danger to the lives of small children. It is not reasonable for two out of three municipalities to be unable to review their activities. Nor is it reasonable that, when gross errors are detected, no action is taken or clear decisions are taken. Many times you don't even follow up on the shortcomings in your business. Madam President, I would like I believe it is time to give the School Inspectorate responsibility for the entire licensing and supervision. It should apply to all preschools, not just some. I also believe that educational care should be included in this. Now only 2% of children are in educational care, but if each child is to be counted, as must be done, it is a problem that special regulation involving educational care today is so unclear and almost undemanding. According to the latest survey, it is even clear that in some municipalities their current pre-school activities are converted into educational care in order to avoid requirements and reduce quality. It is directly unworthy of Swedish preschool and must never be accepted. Madam President, I would like Today something interesting happened at the Education Committee. A State Secretary visited us and answered questions about the quality of preschool and the need for a pre-school inquiry. The problem descriptions were numerous and comprehensive, but, as usual, the measures were too few. We have a huge shortage of teachers. We have a lack of career moves for the few teachers we have. There are significant differences in quality, and access to suitable premises is too low. Many children in the country's municipalities even have to wait illegally for a long time in a preschool. And despite the fact that teachers' unions, researchers, preschool organisations, preschool uprisings of various kinds and parties from the right to the left agree and ask for a broad investigation of preschool, the Social Democrats say no. For an equivalent education we need a broad investigation of the conditions in Swedish preschool. It also requires that politics unite behind a united line and take a joint decision in order for this to carry time. I would therefore urge the Social Democrats to reconsider their position and vote in favour of reservation 1, to which I also call for the approval, Madam President.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-753	Madam President, I would like I was elected to Parliament for the first time in the 2018 elections. It was a very exciting and at the same time challenging first period, where it took us a while before we actually got a government in place. Just a few months later, in March 2019, I stood for the first time in this speaker's chair to debate preschool, the same subject that we are discussing here today. What I might remember best is that all Members, regardless of their party colours, were clear that preschool was something important and something that needs to be prioritised. Everyone had heard the demands of the pre-school rebellion, everyone knew the situation of the children and the staff, everyone wanted to act. One year passed, and in January 2020 we stood here again and talked about preschool. I had been able to work a little more actively on the issue, made some visits to preschools and talked with staff in reality and thus landed in a number of new proposals that went completely in line with what the industry and preschool requested. The Social Democrats' Roza Güclü Hedin took note of the Swedish Democrats' proposal and commitment to preschool and wished me and the party welcome into the debate but was also very clear that preschool was something that the government with the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party would solve on their own, without the help and suggestions of the Swedish Democrats. As in the previous year, the Swedish Parliament therefore rejected the Swedish Democrats' proposal to improve food quality, increase opportunities for full-time employment, abolish withdrawals for preschool staff and actively work to improve the working and living environment of staff and children. The government parties, which in 2020 entered their sixth year in power since the 2014 elections, had no new proposals and had done nothing about the situation as it looked when we debated the issue in March of the previous year. After all, the Socialist Member said in the speaker's chair that the government would solve the situation – then one must simply trust it. The budget, on the other hand, had cut back on appropriations for the reduction of children's groups in preschool. How does that make sense? Of course, I asked questions about this on several occasions, both in the preschool debate and in the Minister for Education at Parliament's Question Time and as a written question. All the answers claimed that this was not the case. Nevertheless, I stood here with the budget in my hand and the figures were marked with an embodiment pen: category 16, envelope 1:7 Preschool. For 2019: 4 595 000 000, for 2020: 3 903 000 000. This is a reduction of 692 million for a grant that may be used to encourage the reduction of children's groups and increased staff density in preschools. The government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party promised in the debate that this would be resolved despite the reduction in financial resources and despite the rejection of all proposals from the Swedish Democrats. We must trust them, we thought again, because we assume that everyone has the best interests of preschool in front of us and nothing else. So went another year, and now we stand here again in February 2021. We can note that the government parties do not now have any new proposals for preschools and that, as usual, all proposals from the other parties have been rejected. In the case of investments in the reduction of children's groups in preschool, the grant has still not been increased since the decrease of 692 million. This year we are rejecting 22 proposals from Swedish democrats, all of which are aimed at improving pre-school conditions. I said no new proposals. In fact, eleven prominent Social Democrats have actually tabled a proposal for compulsory pre-school education from the age of two. No new good proposals may be a slightly more accurate description of the situation. Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear here that the Swedish Democrats will never contribute to a national, compulsory preschool, whether it be from two, three, four or five years of age. We believe that the children's parents know what is best for their children, not the state. On the other hand, efforts need to be made in those areas where children suffer, where children live in a destructive environment of crime as part of everyday life. In areas that are classified by the Police Authority as vulnerable and particularly vulnerable, efforts need to be made for preschool. But why should children in Northern Boden or Värmland Hammarö attend compulsory preschool because the government has failed its integration policy in the country's vulnerable areas? It's totally unreasonable. Let me therefore be very clear once again: Swedish preschool is fantastic and something we should be very proud of. But one of the aspects that makes it so amazing is that it is precisely voluntary. We will urge, offer and argue for it, but we will never force anyone into it. We will carry out actions in the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas that need them and not throughout the country. Of course, I may have misunderstood the whole situation. When the government parties say that they will solve the situation in the Swedish preschool without the help of the Swedish Democrats and other parties, they may not have aimed at reduced groups, improved living environment for children and staff, statutory outdoor environments and so on. It may simply be something else you have in mind. It may have been thought that you should phase out day care workers and educational care or remove Pippi books and Tintin. Maybe that's where the focus is. It is clear that the government parties have neither succeeded nor seem to succeed in solving the situation in Swedish preschools. Beautiful words in the speaker's chair do not lead anywhere, but rather result in reduced appropriations and a negating of the problems and challenges that exist in the business and that are only getting worse and worse. The industry is crying out for help, but nobody seems to care. The fact is that the government has been running the country for almost seven years, and one wonders if you now have the power why you do nothing about it. The Swedish democrats therefore believe that it is time for a substantial round-up for the Swedish preschool. It has now been more than 50 years since the so-called child sturgeon investigation was carried out, which was the basis of the preschool we have today. The development in preschool is out of step with the increasing ambitions, while fewer and fewer staff are trained for their work and the work situation is becoming more and more pressured. In accordance with several researchers and educators, we believe that it is high time that the government set up an investigation into the Swedish preschool with the mission to conduct a fundamental review of the desirable and actual conditions for a preschool worthy of the name throughout the country. For this reason, Madam President, I had intended to support the joint SD-KD-M reservation 1, but since it was done by the moderate Member in the previous debate, I would instead like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5 to strengthen the Swedish language in preschool. Of course, we support our other requests, both the new ones and those which are being prepared this year with a simplified procedure. Anyone who has heard me talk about preschool before or in the speaker's chair in general may think that, compared with the usual situation, I am going unusually hard on the government parties today, that I am not usually so critical, and that is probably true. As a person, I believe in compromises, conversations and getting along for the good of preschool and for the good of society. I can take as an example that I and Daniel Riazat of the Left Party often disagree politically and that we base our argumentation on completely different factual policies and completely different ideological points of departure. I might get a boot in the next debate post – it remains to be seen – but if the Left Party presents a proposal that is good for the Swedish preschool, then we in the Swedish Democrats will vote for it, or alternatively to catch up on the issue and push it from our perspective if there is something we want to change a little. Regardless of what I and any other Member agree on or disagree with, or what our parties think of each other, it can never be more important than the best interests of preschool. You may call me naive and blue-eyed, but when I first stood in the speaker's chair about two years ago, I really believed that there was a desire to make the situation in preschool better. But I'm no longer quite as convinced. You're not really interested in seeing if a proposal is good or not. It is only about who has tabled the proposal and who is to be kept out of influence. You're not interested in promoting an improved preschool. It's about keeping power and keeping the rest of us out of influence. Imagine how much we would achieve if we looked instead at the proposals that were put forward, crossed over the sender with a black pen if it is so scary that one happens to think the same as a Swedish democrat, and evaluates quite objectively whether the proposal benefits the Swedish preschool or not. A bucket and shovel sandbox is something that we absolutely want in preschool, but it is not something we want in this House. With this, I thank myself and apologise for having oversold my speaking time.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-777	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 8 by the Left Party. Preschool is both a prerequisite for equal parenthood and an educational activity that is crucial for children's development. A well-functioning, equal and equal preschool is the prerequisite for a well-functioning society. All children must be entitled to a preschool where the educational activities are of the highest quality. Major changes have been made by preschools in recent years, and at the same time it has been given more and more assignments in the education system, the conditions are different across the country. In many preschools, children's groups are too large and the number of preschool teachers and nurseries is too small. In many places the premises are small or not adapted to pre-school activities. Access to a good outdoor environment also varies greatly. In some municipalities, all children are entitled to at least 30 hours of preschool, and in some municipalities they are entitled to 15, which is the minimum requirement of the Education Act. The situation does not get any easier when a majority of the country's municipalities, and I mean a large majority, make cuts throughout the education system. In addition, the legislation on educational care is too unclear, which means that municipalities have difficulty making demands and monitoring these activities. The unsustainable working environment of which many preschool teachers and child care workers testify has led to increased ill-health among the staff. Preschool staff are over-represented among people with long-term sick leave. In addition, a large proportion of pre-school staff do not have pre-school education or child care training, which means that an increasing responsibility is placed on those who actually have education. Despite all the problems that Swedish schools are facing, it is a long time ago that an investigation was carried out about the role we want preschools to play in society and as the start of lifelong learning. The Association of Teachers, Municipal, Pre-school Researchers and initiatives such as the Pre-school Rebellion have highlighted the need for change. From several quarters, it has been proposed to set up a state inquiry into an equal and equal preschool, like the two major school investigations that have been presented in recent years. We agree with this, and we also believe that there is a need for a major investigation that thoroughly examines the type of preschool we need to provide all children with equal and equal conditions for a good start to life. Staff should be given good opportunities to conduct high-quality preschool activities. However, we believe in this situation that it is better to do this in the form of a committee initiative and cooperation rather than in the form of a general exercise report. Madam President, I would like A 2013 amendment of the law allowed undocumented children a legal right to attend school and participate in school activities. This did not include pre-school activities. In the preparatory work for the amendment of the law, there were proposals for the right to pre-school activities based on the argument that pre-school children risk becoming even more isolated due to a greater need for parents to move outside the home. This saw an increased risk that young children living as undocumented children would be made more invisible if they were not given the opportunity to attend preschool. Despite this, undocumented children were not given the legal right to participate in preschool activities. Some undocumented children are still prepared at preschool by individual businesses or by municipalities. Preschool is an important place for children's learning and development. Early training efforts are cost-effective. The younger the children are when the stakes are applied, the greater the compensatory effect they have. It is therefore important that children of undocumented children also have early access to preschool. The Left Party believes that the evaluation of the 2013 amendment should include a review of the right of undocumented children to attend preschool. Madam President, I would like For the Left Party, it is important to invest in children when they are at the age they are in preschool. We have long been able to boast in Sweden about what fantastic preschool activities we have. But let us be honest and say that if nothing is done about the problems that we see in preschool today, we will no longer be able to boast about that activity. We are on our way there, not because the pre-schoolers or the child-careers are not doing everything they can to actually brag about the business, but because we are going to a preschool where already today 30% of the employees have no education whatsoever to work with children. We overlook the problems that exist when it comes to having adapted and large enough premises for preschool activities. As soon as the discussion on children's groups comes up, we try to show that children's groups have not grown at all, even though it is actually the measurements that have changed in recent years, which means that one cannot even compare with previous years. What I and the Left Party are saying is that there is a need for a strong move and a deal about the Swedish preschool. There is a need for new laws, more resources, less cuts and less of what has been so far, for us to ignore and close our eyes to the problems that exist. Having said that, I would like to thank myself.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-787	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Daniel Riazat how it is that although you have made a committee initiative on the broad investigation that the Moderates are calling for in this House, you are saying no to our proposal. You have a letter under discussion in the Education Committee which has almost identical sentences as in our committee motion and our proposal. If the Left Party is serious about wanting to take this measure, that this type of investigation is needed and that the need is urgent, how is it that we want to postpone decision-making on this issue for weeks rather than together taking decisions in this House?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-789	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is quite simple. As Noria Manouchi explained, there is a committee initiative by the Left Party to set up a major investigation into an equal and equal preschool. The fact is that the decision on that committee initiative will be taken before the decision on the motion report, because the decision on the committee initiative will be taken on Tuesday in two weeks' time and the decision on the motion will be taken on Thursday in two weeks' time. The committee initiative will come up before the motion report. Otherwise, I can say that I contacted the Moderates when I wrote the proposal and submitted it. I have also been in contact with your colleague in the Education Committee, who also thought it was a good proposal that I had made. I also explained that I believe that when we are going to take a strong move and a deal about Swedish preschool, it is better to try to get as many parties with us as possible. We know that this is more possible in the case of a committee initiative than in the case of motions from the general period of exercise. As Noria Manouchi also knows, it is usually the case that parties vote for joint reservations when they have motions that are in accordance with them, that is, motions that are left during the general period of exercise. There are several reasons why we act as we do. However, the vote has not yet been taken. The Moderates do not know exactly how we will act. My answer is simple. I want there to be as broad an agreement as possible in the Education Committee on this issue. It didn't turn out to be your reservation.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-795	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely true that we do not know how the Left Party will vote on Thursday next week. However, we have now tabled the proposal last autumn during the general period of exercise. Last autumn, the Moderates wrote a proposal which the Left Party in the committee will in any case say no to and then in the spring contact us and ask if we can support our own proposal, but signed by Daniel Riazat. We are absolutely in favour of our proposal regardless of whether the Left Party is in favour of it or whether any other party is in favour of it for that matter. However, I find it remarkable that in the course of handling a political proposal in this House, we are instead looking to the committee to try in some way to circumvent the ordinary order of a committee initiative. I think it's a little too bad. It's almost transparent, too. Now the Left Party wants to address the issue and show the advances in pre-school politics. But that's not enough. You have also already said no to this in committee. I understand, however, that there is an opening. Daniel Riazat and his party may change their attitude on this. The only thing that is clear is that we in the Moderates will consistently say yes to our proposal.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-798	Madam President, I would like If I interpret Mrs Manouchi correctly, that means that the Moderates will agree to the committee initiative of the Left Party on Tuesday, that is, before the motion for a resolution is voted on in plenary. I would also ask you to think carefully about the very vote that we will have in the Education Committee on the pre-school inquiry. The reason is that what we all know is easy for the government not to set up various kinds of investigations and follow the announcements that exist or somehow delay them. If we have a united committee with us that can agree to set up an investigation, it will be considerably more difficult for the government not to set up such an investigation. In this case, we fully agree that there needs to be an investigation. The question is the procedure itself. There I think it is better that we put aside the prestige and make a broader agreement than that we discuss the form in the way we have now done.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-802	Madam President, I would like The children are our future. The love, affirmation and care and educational support that we give them as small, both in their homes and through childcare and preschool, we get back in the form of safe and responsible young people and adults. According to Professor Hugo Lagercrantz, who researches the development of children's brain, large children's groups in preschool can expose children to stress that can have serious consequences for children's development. In addition to the deterioration of connections, stress risks leading to concentration difficulties and reduced learning ability. In Skolverket's review of research related to the size of children's groups, you can read: If a children's group becomes too large, the positive effects of staying in a group risk being changed to their opposite. Relationships can be difficult to grasp for children, which can create a sense of anonymity and insecurity, which in turn can lead to aggressive behavior or other manifestations such as fatigue, depression, and listlessness. The National Agency for Education has therefore set its benchmarks for children's groups to 6 – 12 children for ages 1 – 3 years and 9 – 15 children for ages 4 – 5 years. Last year, in 2020, the Teachers' Association conducted a survey among 1,525 preschool teachers. It showed that few preschool teachers worked in a children's group that was within the school board's benchmarks. Three quarters of pre-colleagues worked in a group with the smallest children, 1 – 3 years of age, which was larger than the recommended benchmark. As much as one third of pre-colleagues worked in a children's group of 16 or more children. Pedagogues who work in preschool testify to an untenable situation. In the Preschool Uprising, as other speakers have mentioned earlier here, the staff talk about the gap between ambition and reality. Madam President, I would like The serious development of large groups of children must be broken. Parents should be able to feel confident that there is time, and a arms to crawl into, for their two-year-old. Pre-school staff should be able to feel confident that they will have good opportunities to do their fantastic work. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing a new law that children who are three years old and below should not have to belong to groups that are larger than twelve children. The state needs to take the main responsibility to secure funding, but also municipalities and parents need to contribute. The Christian Democrats therefore propose a three-part financing model. First of all, it's a height max. We are convinced that most parents are prepared to pay a little more for their children to have a safer preschool with smaller groups of children and more adults. Since the introduction of the maximum rate of pre-school education in 2002, the income ceiling for parents has been raised only slightly, while the size of children's groups has increased significantly. We therefore propose that the ceiling of the maximum rate be raised. Secondly, we believe that municipalities should contribute as much as parents and increase their investments in preschool. Thirdly, we also want the government to raise SEK 1.2 billion a year. We would have liked to have carried out this reform by 2023, in two years' time. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to see a variety of forms of childcare. Each child is unique, and in the vast majority of cases the parents are the ones who can best judge the health of their children. It is therefore important that in each municipality there is a broad palette with both municipal and private alternatives and with different educational orientations. The Christian Democrats also care about family day care or educational care, as they are now called. Unlike the overcrowded preschool groups, most family day-care centres are characterised by small-scaleness and a homelike proximity – and high continuity among the staff, of course. Today, it is the municipalities that are responsible for ownership and permit testing and also for monitoring educational care. More recently, there have been misleading examples where educational care is conducted without either pedagogy or care. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. Local government ownership and permit testing and monitoring of this type of tax-funded activity for our youngest seem to be mildly uneven and, in some cases, completely inadequate. That is why, Madam President, the Christian Democrats want to transfer this responsibility to the School Inspectorate. This would provide an equivalent quality review. This proposal is set out in our Amendment No 11, which I hereby request. Incidentally, we naturally support all our proposals and the joint motion, together with the Moderates, for an investigation into preschool.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-819	Madam President, I would like Liberals also want to highlight the importance of preschool activities. When I listen to some of the committee colleges, however, I would like to remind you that we have made a number of efforts in this year's budget, including the Language Lift, to raise the quality of preschool, not least with regard to language development within the preschool's mission. We have also, in the light of the announcement we made in the last parliamentary term, pushed forward in conjunction with the January Contract Parties and the Government for compulsory preschools to be implemented in due course. The investigation has been carried out, and today it was sent out for consultation. I do not share the view expressed in the speech by the Swedish Democrats that this would only be about some children in vulnerable areas or in the suburbs around the big cities, where participation is lower, although the gap is greatest in vulnerable areas when it comes to children of newly arrived people. But we have also seen in the investigation that the problem is much wider than that and that it is also found in sparsely populated areas, in rural areas and so on. Participation could increase with the right conditions and access to preschool activities. Preschools are extremely important for various reasons. This is about language development, and it is about social development. We also see research that shows that if you have participated in preschool activities it affects the entire schooling, also in terms of results and grades. Therefore, there are various reasons and motivations for continuing to contribute to more people taking part in preschool pedagogy. Madam President, I would like The Liberals, in particular, in the report on pre-school – if I am to stick to the report we are now debating – want to lift reservation 3, to which we are calling for approval. It's about staff skills. We are obviously the only party that has lifted this. We have done so in sharp demands for exercise when it comes to having higher ambitions for the educational staff. Unfortunately, however, we have not managed to pool support for this requirement, namely that we want to increase the skills of preschool staff. We can discuss premises, and we can discuss the size of children's groups, which are extremely important from a quality point of view. But it is the municipalities and individual actors that are the heads of preschools. We know that they often mismanage their mission, do not invest in smaller children's groups and use preschool as an accordion, which is very common. Unfortunately, it is most evident that the size of children's groups is increasing. But, Madam President, what we can influence on the part of the state, we must also do more actively. This concerns the availability of trained preschool teachers and the fact that we have a good pre-school teacher training that is linked and linked to the future working life. There is also a need to strengthen the training of future colleagues in language development. There too we have seen in reports from the Swedish School Inspectorate and others that it is flawed. Many of the pre-school teachers, including academic teachers, who come out do not have enough skills in terms of multilingualism and so on. There is one more thing we want to lift. I heard what has been said on the issue of competence both from the Secretary of State in the Education Committee today and from what has been highlighted in the investigation. There is a lot of focus on the academically trained, i.e. the pre-colleagues. There is also a great deal of focus on child care. What the Liberals want to highlight, and what is also the motive for the motion, Madam President, is that there is a third category that we absolutely must not forget. It has grown by 7 per cent since 2014 and today represents just over one third of the total workforce of the country's preschools. It is the category that is neither a nurse nor a preschool teacher, officially called otherwise, nor staff who do not have a relevant education to work with children. I see this as the most important challenge, or problem, to tackle in the short and long term. We also see that this strikes particularly in particularly vulnerable and vulnerable areas, in socio-economically tougher areas, where children are most in need of access to, and meeting, educated educators. It is about educators who have both an educational education that is relevant to the preschool's activities and who have the Swedish language with them. There we see great and extensive shortcomings. That is why we need to be more ambitious in terms of educational staff. I am extremely disappointed, and I regret that only the Liberals have supported this demand in the report of the Committee on Education. We need to educate, we need to further train and we need to introduce a national language requirement for all educational education in preschool if we are to succeed in reversing exclusion, improving integration and, not least, also giving children in the affected areas a good chance of bringing along vocabulary, quality and the language development that preschools are actually going to provide according to the curriculum. With that, Madam President, I hope that we will continue to have a good debate and that many of the reforms under way, not least the compulsory language preschool, will eventually result in a proposal that we can take a position on during this parliamentary term.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-833	Madam President, I would like As Roger Haddad says, there is a little difference between the vulnerable areas and those that are not vulnerable. If I do not remember correctly, it is 82% in the affected areas and 87% in the rest of the country. I basically agree that we should do what we can to try to get more children to attend preschool; there we are in complete agreement. On the other hand, I am very hesitant that we should make it compulsory. As I mentioned in my speech, we will do what we can to launch, inform and make people want to go there. But I find it very difficult to see why we should make it mandatory. But that's not really what I wanted to ask Roger Haddad. As I mentioned in my speech, we politicians must also dare to highlight positive proposals from our political opponents which we believe benefit our country and society. In fact, I was going to do it a little bit. The Juno Blom of Liberals is doing a very important work against honour violence. She is also quite right that it is a job that we need to start with already in preschool. This is an issue that we Swedish democrats are also working on. In the run-up to today's debate, we Swedish democrats had first chosen to join the Liberals' demand to combat honour-related violence. Unfortunately, however, we felt obliged to back away from it because the claim also proved to be an active work on gender education and the elimination of gender differences. My question to the Liberals' Roger Haddad is really: why do the Liberals choose to confuse such an important issue as the fight against violence of honour with children not being allowed to develop on the path that is natural to them?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-839	Madam President, I would like With regard to the first part and what investigator Lotta Edholm has proposed on preschool, for legal reasons, it is not a real and sharp obligatory but a registration obligation for the municipalities. Then, as guardian, you can ultimately decide whether you want the child in preschool or not. It remains to be seen what the consultation bodies say and what the government ultimately chooses to present to the Riksdag in the form of a bill. On the second issue, however, I think that the work against honour-related violence and repression and the work on gender equality are generally linked. The reason why we emphasise the elements that Michael Rubbestad raises is that we are not satisfied with the current curriculum but think that it needs to be tightened up and clarified. Therefore, the Liberals have clarified and refined their claims in their committee motion. I regret that the Swedish Democrats do not support them, but I also hear that you are prepared to continue to support the work against honour-related violence and repression. It's been neglected. The skills are underdeveloped. Some things are being done by the National Agency for Education today, but it can be much better.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-841	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that the Liberals are not satisfied with what the curriculum looks like linked to gender education and gender equality work. Of course we should work on those questions, but we have to work with them in the right way. As your motion was formulated today, we felt that we could not really support it. It didn't focus on what you wanted to change, it just focused on working on gender education. What you do today, what the Swedish National Agency for Education recommends that you work with, is to replace him a lot and a lot of her in the songs. You should remove sex-coded toys such as cars and dolls and instead use natural-colored re-use materials, and the staff should avoid words such as: If the Liberals review this until next year and change their motion, it is not at all unlikely that we can have a consensus here. I share the view that the work against honour-related violence is extremely important and something that we really need to start working on already in preschool. If we are in agreement, I also welcome the Liberals and Roger Haddad to follow up on the requests made by the Swedish Democrats in this area and also in other committees.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-844	Madam President, I would like We have different views on preschool's mission and not least when it comes to gender equality policy in general. It's not a secret. Then we happen to be in the same position as regards the work against honour-related violence and oppression. I see no confusion about this, even though we are two different parties and have two completely different ideological fundamentals. However, I think it is a bit excessive to say that you should not be allowed to use your mother or dad. Nevertheless, it is necessary to modernise the regulatory framework and adapt it so as to make it easier for preschool staff and educators to deal with situations that may arise. Whether gender equality work is about gender education or honour-related violence and oppression, I think the most important thing is that the message to the business is that we must start with this much earlier. We still see that this is a problem in upper secondary school and that it is a problem in society. We even have preschools, which we have strongly criticised, which are linked to violent extremism. We have primary schools that have gender-disaggregated teaching. Everything they believe in and build their school activities is contrary to fundamental values of democracy and gender equality. That is why it is important for us to emphasise this.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-847	Madam President, I would like It is almost exactly a year since we discovered the first cases of Corona infected in Sweden. For a year, we have lived under a pandemic that has turned our lives upside down and meant that people have seen their life's work go down and lost their jobs. And, of course, worst of all, far too many lives have been stolen far too soon. But countless lives have also been saved thanks to our welfare state and our welfare heroes, who have proved to be the basis of our national security. Recently, it has become painfully clear which professions are indispensable to the functioning of society, so that everything does not collapse. Pre-school staff, such as our nannys and preschool teachers, are definitely such a profession. It's not without me being touched. Preschool staff make sure our children feel safe even in the darkest of times. They ensure that our society can stand up to it, not least by enabling healthcare professionals and others in socially important professions to continue to go to work. I can only feel tremendous gratitude. Madam President, I would like Let me also say that I feel a great pride in the Swedish preschool and the journey Sweden has made in the expansion of the general preschool – from what was once a day care centre with a focus on care to what is today the preschool's educational and stimulating environments, from the fact that the Children's Statistics investigation in 1968 launched the concept of preschool to the fact that preschool today is an integral part of the education system and the school system with its own curriculum. What Sweden has achieved through the expansion of preschool is the prerequisite for women's and men's equal participation in the labour market. This means the opportunity for parents to share support and unpaid home and care work – and of course the best interests of the child, its learning and development. Today, preschools continue to be crucial to achieving gender equality in the labour market but also to the construction of our equal society. The Equality Commission, set up by the Government, submitted its report in August 2020, pointing out in particular that preschool contributes to the long-term educational attainment of children and reduces dependence on transfer systems. Research shows that children who have attended a high-quality preschool from an early age are better prepared for school, have better language skills and demonstrate greater social competence than children who have not attended preschool. This applies especially to children who come from tough growing-up conditions. I am proud of the journey that preschool has made. I am proud of the foundation that preschool is in our welfare society, as an enabler of equality and equality. I am proud of the internationally record reputation of preschool among parents in Sweden. However, we must continue to develop preschool so that all children can take part in activities that stimulate learning and development and where competent and knowledgeable staff have time to see each child. Even before the crisis, many preschools had strained it, with high sickness rates and stress. The number of children attending preschool has increased sharply, but despite this, the size of children's groups has decreased only slightly in recent years. The fact that the Social Democratic-led government has increased state subsidies to preschool in order for children's groups to become smaller and re-established benchmarks for the size of children groups has had an effect. But it is clear that more needs to be done. We must continue to strengthen both our preschools and those who daily provide care, security and learning for our children. That is how we lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable society. Since 2014, the government, led by Stefan Löfven, has invested more than 1 billion per year for the reduction of children's groups and invested especially in preschools with the greatest challenges. The Government has introduced a new curriculum for pre-school quality and with a special focus on language development, gender equality and staff assignments. It has invested 80 million annually in childcare in the evenings, nights and weekends. This is, moreover, a doubling compared to the efforts made by the previous government. For 2021 we make special investments in more resources for preschools in socio-economically vulnerable areas. But above all, we give broad prosperity a declaration of strength in the form of increased resources. For 2021, we will increase general state grants to municipalities and regions by 22 1⁄2 billion, because we know that 40% of the municipal budget goes to education. We have now made it possible for more groups to be covered by the VAL, the continuing training of teachers, so that more people can become qualified preschool teachers. We also invest in skills and further education for preschool teachers and principals. We have established a national professional programme and have also strengthened the educational leadership of preschools. Preschool managers are now becoming principals. Since 2014, the government has also expanded pre-school education with 800 entry points per year. We should not have staff who wear themselves out, loaded by tight budgets. Children's groups must continue to become smaller, and the attractiveness of working in preschool must increase. It is crucial that we remedy the staff shortages and ensure that the quality of all preschools throughout the country is equal. The latter is not least about investing in preschools in socio-economically vulnerable areas and ensuring that all children, regardless of their class background, have access to preschools. Although nearly 94 per cent of today's 3-5 year olds attend preschool, children of the unemployed and newly arrived are heavily over-represented among the 23,000 children of the same age category who are not enrolled in preschool. It risks cementing the class society and making the school's compensatory mission more difficult. It is therefore gratifying that, within the framework of the January agreement, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to submit proposals aimed at increasing participation in preschool and at how preschool's work with children's language development in Swedish can be strengthened. These are proposals that the government has now received and is working on. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation with the aim of proposing measures for improved quality and equivalence in leisure and educational care. Madam President, I would like The injustices of society are numerous, and it is almost overwhelming to take on all that needs to be done to build the fair, equal and sustainable Sweden that we dream of. So where do we start? My answer is that it always has to start with the children. With a strong preschool we build Sweden as a knowledge nation. In this way, we ensure the parents' opportunities to work and, most importantly, the children's right to learn as much as they can. By investing in our children, we are investing in tomorrow's safe, free and equal citizens. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-863	Madam President, I would like While the Social Democrats say that they want to invest more in staff, Preschool Sweden says that it is not enough. At the same time as they say that they invest in skills development, Preschool Sweden says that it is not enough. S says that you invest in reducing children's groups, and Preschool Sweden says that they are still too large. They say they want to improve quality. But it is too low, and above all there is a huge difference between different parts of the country. They say they want to invest in language development. Yet there are too many children who start school and do not know the Swedish language. The entire Preschool Sweden is asking for the same thing: a broad study that can answer how we in Sweden should get a good and equal preschool. Yet we have just witnessed in the Swedish Parliament that the Social Democrats are calling for this to be rejected. My question to the honourable Member is why the Social Democrats refuse to go to all Preschool Sweden – trade associations, pre-school uprisings, pre-school organisations and political parties from the right to the left – to meet. Why do the Social Democrats say no to what Preschool Sweden wants most?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-866	Madam President, I would like The role of preschool in building an equal society is crucial. It is crucial that we invest in children at an early age by having an equal preschool. That's how we build safe and free citizens. The fact that equal society and equality are now a commitment to the Moderates surprises me somewhat. But I welcome the Moderates to that commitment. Preschool should be of high quality regardless of whether it is an independent or municipal principal, regardless of whether the preschool is located in sparsely populated areas or urban areas, regardless of the socio-economic area and where in Sweden it is located. There may certainly be grounds for setting up an assessment of equivalence. But I note that, thanks to the S-led government and the January agreement, an incredible amount is happening around preschool. In my speech, I have listed the efforts we are making on staff, on attracting staff to preschool and on keeping staff in preschool. These include more training places for preschool teachers, opportunities for skills development and opportunities for further training. Much has happened. We have also set up two investigations under the January agreement, which also bear the burden of equivalence. However, there are challenges of staff shortages, of reaching all children and of the large number of groups of children in the country. That's why the government's efforts are so important. It is action and not words that are needed. That is why we need to continue along this path. Let's do it together!
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-871	Madam President, I would like What Aylin Fazelian says is true; an incredible amount is happening in Preschool Sweden. It's been doing that for a long time. For decades, there have been huge changes in Preschool Sweden. What has not happened, however, and which now needs to happen, is to take a concerted approach and look at all the additions of assignments that have been sprinkled over preschool and pre-colleagues. You need to take that hold. One needs to formulate how we in Sweden will achieve an adequate and equivalent preschool. Pre-school Sweden believes that it is not today and that what the government is doing is not enough. Then it is not enough, as the Social Democrats do, to beat their chests and say that they are changing Preschool Sweden. Those very changes must be included in an investigation. The changes have been too many for a long time, without taking a holistic approach. It is missing today, and it is being asked for. Madam President, I would like I note that I received no reply from the honourable Member on the attitude of the Social Democrats towards an investigation. I'd like a yes or a no. Will the Social Democrats reconsider their position on the motion? Will the Social Democrats meet in pre-school Sweden in the only thing that everyone gathers around and asks from the Social Democrats and this Parliament?
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-875	Madam President, I would like The S-led government, led by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, has made solid and comprehensive increases in ambition in preschool. At the same time, we face many challenges, not least the shortage of staff and the size of children's groups. This has to do with, among other things, increased needs in preschool. More and more children are enrolled in preschool, which is positive. However, there is an increased need for more staff due to the expected retirements. It is therefore important that we continue along the path that we have now taken with all the efforts that I have listed in the areas of challenges. We have, among other things, increased state subsidies to reduce children's groups. We have made it possible for more people to become children's nurses or preschool teachers and for more people to want to stay in the preschool world. These aren't just words, they're actions. We also ensure that we support municipalities and regions through a historical budget of SEK 22 1⁄2 billion in general government grants. We know that 40% of the municipal budget goes to preschool. So we are making real and structural moves. Preschools now receive real resource supplements. I am convinced that these structural reforms and resources will make a difference. I am open to the fact that more needs to be done for preschool and am humbled by the fact that we face many challenges. But I can't really take what the Moderates say seriously. While beating your chest and talking about equality, for example, we want to remove parts of the equivalence grant for school.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-879	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has affected the entire community, not least preschool. Many children and staff have been absent for some time due to the new pandemic. In the current circumstances and during a tough time, many of the staff in preschool around the country have done a fantastic job. For this, all principals, preschool teachers, children's nurses and other preschool staff deserve a great deal of thanks. Madam President, I would like The availability of sufficient staff in preschool is crucial for children. That is why we in the Center Party want to see a new national benchmark for the number of children per trained staff. We are facing major challenges, including children's groups and a lack of trained staff, as we have heard earlier in the debate. It is important for parents who leave their children to preschool but also, above all, for the children who are in preschool that the place and education are good. Today, there are benchmarks for the size of children's groups. It has been mentioned before. But the Center Party sees a need to link the number of children per trained staff. In the end, the staff are important. In his speech, Roger Haddad pointed to the need to invest in staff. These are issues that the Center Party also considers important. There needs to be better opportunities than today for those working in preschool to be able to further educate themselves. This applies to the child nurse who has a number of credits in a pre-schooler training to complete it. This also applies to those who work but do not have an education to be able to read to child-careers. It is a key for us to reach further ahead in this area. In addition, it is important to create an attractiveness for the profession so that more people want to work in preschool. Care must be taken to ensure that there are good career paths and opportunities for both pre-school principals, preschool teachers and child care workers to develop their skills. Madam President, I would like We know that preschool lays a good foundation for the future. There is no doubt about it. Research shows that those who have attended preschool tend to have a brighter future and succeed better in school in terms of study results. The children who benefit most from this are the children who unfortunately have the most difficulty reaching preschool. Of children between three and five years of age, 23,000 do not attend preschool. Foreign born children and children from low-income families are heavily over-represented in this group. We in the Center Party are proud of the effort now being made within the framework of the January Agreement for more outreach activities so that you can catch up and get more people to want to participate in preschool activities. But further efforts will be needed. A recent study on this matter was presented. Today it was sent out for a referral, and I am excited to read the referrals relating to language preschools. It is about getting more people to attend preschool, but there are also other interesting suggestions. The right to preschool varies greatly depending on whether the parents work or not and where they live in the country. Children of parents who have support are not entitled to preschool as many hours as children whose parents work. In order to reach the most vulnerable, the number of hours should increase in the long term. That is the Center Party's firm opinion. Children in vulnerable families should of course have the same opportunity for a good start and have the same conditions as other children. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to create the conditions for an integration preschool. There should be an opportunity for parents to go to SFI while the children go to preschool. This is an effort that gives children a good start in school and in Sweden, and at the same time it gives parents the opportunity to learn the language. It creates incentives for them to participate in existing activities. This would benefit both children and parents. Madam President, I would like Many in this House today have highlighted many legitimate ambitions for preschool. I would like to point out that it is not just about what needs to be done with preschool and the ambitions that exist, but it must also be financed. The Center Party believes that the maximum rate and the regulation that exists for it need to be reviewed. This will create and free up additional resources for preschool so that we can strengthen the quality of our activities. We sometimes tend to be very good on the part of not least the state to impose new tasks but not to provide money. We therefore need to include this focus as well. That's why we want to review the maximum rate. A certain increase would open up better opportunities for activities. At the same time, this would lead to revenue increases for municipalities. This creates better conditions for developing preschool so that we have a preschool to trust.
i-cb1a3830ca75a684-890	Madam President, I would like Every day, over half a million children go to preschool. The vast majority are met with a safe environment where they learn in play and in interaction with other children, under the guidance of competent preschool teachers and child care workers. A good preschool lays the foundation for a good schooling. Unfortunately, we see alarming differences in children's access to preschool education. These differences are closely linked to class and migration background. We see that many of the children who would most need pre-school pedagogy and the possibility of language training are not reached by it. We in the Green Party are concerned that the big school segregation is already starting in preschool. We want to ensure that municipalities are given a responsibility to work outreach and actively encourage more children to come to preschool. This is particularly important for children who have recently moved to Sweden. We think the investigator Lotta Edholm's proposal for direct enrolment in preschool is wise. Direct enrolment in preschool means that parents not only have the opportunity to apply for a place in preschool but that the municipality actively places the children at the age of three. They will then be given a place in a specific preschool, and parents will have the opportunity to accept or reject the place. We believe that this would lower the threshold and increase the curiosity of parents who today do not place their children in preschool. Since we know how important preschools are especially for children who do not learn Swedish at home, it is with dismay that we take note of the Swedish Democrats' proposal to completely remove the possibility for some children to attend preschool. The fact that the children of the unemployed are the ones pointed out in the Swedish Democrats' proposal is as wrong as it can only be. Today, unemployment is increasing most in those groups where the benefits of pre-school education are of greatest importance. This strengthens my view that the Swedish Democrats are acting for a deterioration of integration in Sweden, with the aim of creating the problems that you live by painting. In fact, punishing children for losing their jobs during the pandemic is appalling. Madam President, I would like Another thing that concerns us is that segregation is strengthened when we look at the level of education of preschool staff. As with school, we now see that the children most in need of access to well-trained staff are those who do not. So it is exactly the same pattern as what we see in school, and it is nothing more than a betrayal that we have such inequality in the school system. For the Green Party, an equal preschool is extremely important. That's why we went to elections on an equality initiative at preschool. In the same way that we have made a historically great effort on primary school through the equivalence grant, we want to do the same for preschool, that is, give more money to all preschools but most money to those preschools that need it most. An equality initiative is central to strengthening the quality of teaching but also to getting a work environment that is sustainable for preschool staff. Sick leave due to stress-related diseases is increasing in society, and a group with high sickness rates are our child care workers. We in the Environmental Party want to make sure that more people want to work as a child nurse and that fewer people get hurt at work. It is important that we safeguard the skills of both preschool teachers and child care workers. We want to raise the status of child-careers by making child-careers a protected professional title. Finally, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to extend warm and heartfelt thanks to all the staff in pre-school – pre-school teachers, child care workers and other staff who are there for our children. In particular, every day during this pandemic, they have ensured that our children have been safe and that their parents have been able to go to work in home care, hospitals and public transport. In this way, our society has been able to roll during this difficult time. The fact that we have been able to keep preschool open has been an invaluable part of our society's joint response to this crisis. Those of you who do your very best every day for our children to develop in preschool are at the heart of building our common future – thank you for that! With these words, I am in favour of the proposal in the report.
