i-40e824a931dd3918-0	Madam President, I would like At least 11 persons have died in the border areas between Poland and Belarus. There are 11 people who should never have been there at all. It is people who may have been deceived there but who may also have been fully aware of the risks involved in the journey. Behind the deaths there are a large number of migrants who remain in the country, reportedly as many as 7 000, some under difficult humanitarian conditions. The combination of the dream of the European Union and the knowledge of our weak asylum system, the cynical power game of the Putin- Lukashenko axis and the weak response of the Union's leaders have created the situation in which we are currently sitting and in which we cannot allow the situation to take place. Before we begin, I would particularly like to thank the President and the group leaders for having approved our request for debate and to welcome Members.
i-40e824a931dd3918-3	Madam President, I would like I would like to start this debate by emphasising that Belarus' actions against its neighbours and against people who have been led to believe that Belarus offers a simple path to the European Union are totally unacceptable. Basically, it is a hybrid attack whose strategic aim is to divide and blackmail the EU. I would like to emphasise that the situation at the border in no way led us to forget the accelerating repression against the people of Belarus, the attacks on civil society organisations, the attacks on the independent media and the over 900 political prisoners. The situation is very serious. The attempts of the regime to use migration as a means of exerting pressure have proved to be a total failure of strategy. If the regime believed that the EU would back down on demands for democracy and human rights in Belarus or back off on our sanctions, we have jointly shown that this is not the case. On the contrary, the EU is more united in its Belarus policy than ever. This shows, not least, the European Council statement adopted yesterday. Madam President, I would like A wide range of measures have been taken within the EU to deal with the situation at the border and to help both affected Member States and affected individuals in solidarity. Such action has been initiated by us Foreign Ministers, by Home Affairs and Migration Ministers, by the European External Action Service and by the European Commission. The FAC decided in November on a new sanction criterion whereby the EU can now use restrictive measures against individuals and entities organising or contributing to the Lukashenko regime's activities to facilitate the illegal crossing of the EU's external borders. On 2 December, it was decided to list additional persons, companies and authorities. It is about airlines, but also about travel agencies, hotels, a special belarusian border guard unit and several responsible individuals. For those on the list, the sanctions mean travel bans that prevent them from entering or transiting through the EU but also the freezing of assets within the EU. In addition, it is forbidden for EU citizens and businesses to make funding available to those on the list. The sanctions are a clear mark against the Belarus regime and act as a deterrent. I welcome the dialogue that the EEAS and the Commission have had with countries of origin and transit so that they can help to prevent more people from going to Belarus with false hopes of entering the EU. I brought this up myself when I visited Baghdad and Erbil recently. As Chairman of the OSCE, I have followed this situation closely and have spoken with, among others, the Head of the UNHCR. The EU has allocated EUR 700 000 for humanitarian operations on the Belarus side of the border. The Belarus Red Cross, UNHCR and IOM are in place. It is very important that humanitarian action reaches those who need it. Madam President, I would like Lukasjenko has ruthlessly tried to use people to put pressure on Europe. It hasn't worked. Now we must continue to provide humanitarian support for migrants and support voluntary return. If the countries concerned so request, the Swedish authorities are prepared to assess whether they can provide additional resources at their disposal.
i-40e824a931dd3918-12	Madam President, I would like It is a hybrid attack on the EU. Only so can the events on the border between Belarus and Poland be described. By means of false promises, people from other countries and continents are lured to Belarus. They suggest the possibility of seeking asylum and reaching the EU. It's human trafficking. The purpose is multiple. It is about trying to destabilise and pressure the EU and spread uncertainty, and there is a desire to bring about division. The thousands of people who have been defrauded by Belarus are being squeezed into the border with Poland. The list of Lukasjenko abuses can be long made: a fraudulent presidential election, the KGB which strikes harshly and irreconcilably against oppositionists and the media, a state-sanctioned hijacking to catch journalist Roman Protasevich, people sentenced to prison on false grounds and political prisoners whose number can count to around 1,000. Therefore, in today's debate, there is reason to be clear: what is being carried out is a cynical hybrid attack. And the one who performs it is a pariah regime. The actions must have consequences such as tougher and more severe sanctions against Belarus and Lukasjenko and the circle around him. The EU's full support will be given to Poland and other countries exposed to this action by Belarus. What Poland needs help with and wishes for in terms of the concrete situation, the EU will assist, including trying to get emergency aid to be stranded in Belarus. Madam President, I would like There is reason to broaden the picture. Things are happening not only on the border between Belarus and Poland, but also on Russia's border with Ukraine. They are alarming troop contractions of a country that has already illegally annexed Crimea and has been engaged in war in eastern Ukraine since 2014. Lukasjenko will assume full responsibility for his actions. They cannot be loaded with Putin in the Kremlin, but there is every reason to see the interaction that the two gentlemen are engaged in. There is therefore reason for Sweden, within the EU, to stand on the side that clearly and forcefully describes the consequences of an attack on Ukraine, but also now marks the need for a clear sanction regime. It is also welcome – and I am now addressing the Kerstin Lundgren Centre – to ensure that the EU's own Magnitsky legislation is broadened and expanded in order to apply to serious corruption and large-scale money laundering as well. There is one important point which unites Mr Lukasjenko and Mr Putin: their regimes are carrying out a large-scale shoplifting of their own peoples' resources. There is one word for this: cleptocrats. It is shameful, but it makes us critics of existing regimes the belarusic and the ry, the real friends of the people.
i-40e824a931dd3918-19	Madam President, I would like As long as the Union has rogue states in its neighbourhood, the situation that has arisen is really nothing more than a logical consequence of our own migration policy decisions. The Belarus regime for a hybrid war against the EU with migrants as weapons. But, Madam President, migrants themselves are not a threat to the Union. The threat to the Union comes from within the Union itself in the form of politicians who are vague or who intend to make the EU weak and who want to open up the Union to a migration law that allows volumes that we will never be able to deal with, which in turn opens up to the kind of blackmail that we see today. The threat to the EU is also in Brussels in the form of a Commissioner who is particularly uninterested and who has claimed that migration blackmail would be something new, while anyone who has been following this issue for a long time knows that this has been going on for at least a decade with different countries playing. The countermeasures advocated by Ann Linde and the European Union are in themselves welcome but seem too small and far too short-sighted in their thinking. Sanctions against companies transporting migrants are in themselves welcome, but we will never be able to stop migration flows in the long term in that way. The EU will probably never be able to stop flights between Istanbul, which is the centre of the Middle East, and cities such as Smolensk, from which a night bus can be taken to Minsk for EUR 20. And even if that route were to be stopped, there are a large number of additional routes that are still open. Madam President, I would like There is only one way to deal with this issue in the longer term, and that is to tackle the incentives that the Union is putting in place. What the EU and the Swedish Government are doing in practice is keeping a residence permit over the heads of these migrants and saying: we do not really want you here. But if you empty your bank accounts and embark on a deadly journey across the Mediterranean or through Belarus and pass a wall of armed Polish border guards, you may be allowed to stay. Some succeed, but most do not succeed. And many die on the road. The asylum system as it works today is grotesque from a moral point of view. But it also undermines the stability of the Union and our diplomatic credibility. The question I would particularly like to have answered here today is why anyone at all wants to stand by a system that has such absurd consequences for everyone involved.
i-40e824a931dd3918-28	Madam President, I would like Lukasjenko has learned to play with the EU and with Putin since he came to power in 1994. But the 2020 elections marked a turning point. Lukasjenko stole the election. Despite the fact that the opposition was imprisoned before the elections and that the elections were not fair, it was his way. When the citizens protested, repression, torture and imprisonment were resorted to. And remember that far more people have fled from Lukasjenko torture, persecution and oppression than those now on the border with Poland. Lukasjenko orchestrated a government aircraft creation of a civilian aircraft. Cynic game with human life is a hallmark of his illegitimate regime. Citizens of their own as well as citizens of other countries are just pawns in the game. We now see it on the border with Poland where Lukasjenko deliberately lured people on the wrong grounds, as has been said before. It is a method of war that is not covered by the laws of war and international law. But something is obviously happening. Human smuggling is made state orchestrated as a hybrid attack. And it's done with the good memory of Putin and the Kremlin. We have seen similar attempts against Norway, against Finland, against Latvia, against Lithuania and now against Poland and against Ukraine. Madam President, I would like These are hybrid attacks which must be stopped with clarity on the part of the European Union and with clarity on the part of the Member States. And I have said before that we need to be more accurate in the policy of sanctions. As Mr Wallmark suggested, we are pushing for sanctions to include and follow the money in order to be accurate. Money laundering and the bloodstream that fattens the system must be handled. It is important that we supplement the Magnitsky sanctions with systematic money laundering and corruption, which must end. Madam President, I would like I would also like to stress the importance of standing up for the right of asylum. This is not a question of the right of asylum being called into question.
i-40e824a931dd3918-34	Madam President, I would like My Europe does not build walls. We'll help each other. Stefan Löfven said this in a speech in Stockholm in autumn 2015. Today, however, we can see how the EU has practically built walls across the continent. We can see how right-wing nationalist forces have led the whole of Europe to close its borders to people on the run. We can see how, in practice, it has become impossible to come to Europe by legitimate and legal means, even if you are in need of protection. The EU has contracted the borders of a number of neighbouring countries by opening its wallet and at the same time looking away. These are countries such as Turkey, Morocco and Libya. It is in this situation that Lukasjenko regime in Belarus is stepping in. The playbook is already in front of them. Because it is not something that scares European politicians so much today as migrants. They are seen as dehumanized people without rights. At the moment, it is zero-degree and cloudy in the border regions between Belarus and Poland, in the woody swamps that have made it difficult for the Russian Empire to penetrate ever deeper into Europe during war. Here thousands of people are now stuck as pawns in a cynical game between a vile Belarus dictator and harsh Polish politicians. Behind them is the EU and Russia respectively. When we met the aid worker Lotta in Parliament, she told us about how she met with hypothermia, beatings and saving people who had fled threats and war cores in the hope of a better life. Under international law, they have the right to have their asylum grounds examined in Poland and in the EU. Instead, they are subjected to so-called pushbacks by border police and sent back to the dictatorship's Belarus where they are beaten and attacked again by the Belarus border guards. Now things have calmed down at the border. However, the basic problem of the lack of legal means of seeking asylum in Europe remains. It is only a matter of time before these problems can reappear. The Left Party already warned in the 1994 EU vote that a Fortress Europe would be built. And we can now, in 2021, conclude that we were unfortunately right.
i-40e824a931dd3918-43	Madam President, I would like The debate today is taking place in a situation of increased tension in Sweden's immediate neighbourhood. From Stockholm to the capital of Belarus Minsk takes it by air an hour and a half. The distance is shorter than that of the EU institutions in Brussels. It is sad to note, but relations at the moment between the EU and the political leadership in Belarus are deteriorating. The necessary and relevant sanctions following the rigged presidential elections and the imprisonment of thousands of innocent demonstrators have been followed by provocation. Belarus' EU ambassador has been called home, and cooperation with the Eastern Partnership has been suspended. The cynically staged crisis near Poland and Lithuania has further exacerbated the situation. On the eastern border of Poland, Russian and belarusian fighters co-opt, and from Minsk will threaten to strangle the flow of natural gas to Europe. Against this background, it is not surprising that Poland is raising its alertness and demanding increased sanctions against Belarus. Nor is it strange that the Frontex Border Guard Agency should be strengthened in order to be able to interact more effectively at the EU border in Poland and Lithuania. It is all the more strange, Madam President, when the origin of the events is described as a migration crisis for which the EU would somehow have a responsibility. It is true that thousands of migrants from the Middle East in particular have been and are in this area, transported there by belarusian and Russian intermediaries. It has not been done to offer them a sanctuary, but to shamelessly exploit the vulnerability of individuals for political purposes. It is a hybrid warfare against the EU and its Member States. Madam President, I would like If we do not act vigorously against the gangster approach of the dictator of Belarus, confidence in European cooperation is undermined. If we do not see the direct link between the Union brothers in Minsk and Moscow, the situation will deteriorate further. Vladimir Putin does not hide what he is after: he wants to weaken the EU and NATO, he intends to put a stop to more countries joining the cooperation and he intends to pursue his Russian empire building, where Belarus and Ukraine are key elements. That is what is now going on in our neighbourhood, Madam President.
i-40e824a931dd3918-48	Madam President, I would like The situation on the Belarus-Poland border and on the Belarus-Lithuania border is staged by an illegal president who sees the ground shaking under his feet. The EU's response must be to increase pressure on the regime and demonstrate a united Europe that does not succumb to the pressure of the regime in Minsk that ruthlessly exploits people's desire for a better life in Europe. Repression is constantly increasing in Belarus. This week Aleksandr Lukasjenko signed a law that makes it punishable to call for sanctions against the Belarus State, its citizens or its companies. Political prisoners are constantly increasing, and civil society has absolutely no chance of operating openly. When this debate was requested, the regime flew in 50 planes a week from Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. People were promised that they would be able to cross the border to Poland and further into the EU. Although pressure on the border has waned somewhat, migrants continue to try to cross the border, night after night. Thousands of people also remain in a limbo in a forest area. Minsk doesn't want these migrants. Minsk is not interested in whether these people are freezing to death in the forest or not getting access to medicines. In the Soviet Union, human life was worth nothing, and that idea has tragically been passed on to the leaders of Russia and Belarus. The examples of this are many: house bombings in Moscow, the shooting of the Malaysian plane MH17 and so on. The systems of these regimes create cynical leaders who, in turn, carry out cynical acts. For Belarus, the aim is to force the EU to back down on the sanctions packages that it has so far agreed. For Russia, the ultimate aim is to divide the EU. A Europe that holds together is a threat to Russian interests, while a Europe that is slowly torn apart by internal discord is a Russian victory. Madam President, I would like We shall not give this either Aleksandr Lukasjenko or Vladimir Putin. We shall stand united in our opposition to these regimes.
i-40e824a931dd3918-54	Madam President, I would like In the Green Party, we are not only following developments on the border between Belarus and Poland, but also the frightening development we are seeing in Belarus. It's been going on for a long time and it's just going on. There is an illegitimate regime that oppresses its population, and not only its population, but all it manages to trap in its net – all who come in the way of the regime. In their debate request, the Swedish Democrats mentioned the wide range of issues that are at stake here. It is easy to talk about many abstract issues, about rules and laws and about what is possible and what is not. However, some speakers have also talked about the people who are on the Polish side at one moment – that is, on our side the border, within the EU – and at the second moment in Belarus. They're pushed back and forth by violent force. There is one way of turning this weapon out of Lukasjenko hands, and that is to stand up for the right of asylum that exists. You have the right to seek asylum. Within the EU, we have a way of assessing whether people are entitled to the protection provided by asylum or not, and that is the case. What we see now is not worthy. It's about people. They may be fooled, although some suggest that they know very well that this is not possible but that they will come anyway. But I still have quite a lot of respect for the choices people who live in terrible situations are forced to make. I want Sweden to be the voice within the EU that stands up for our humanitarian ideals and protects the right to asylum. It is a proud tradition we have, and I am extremely concerned when I see that there seems to be some hesitation in this. It could be said that these people should seek asylum in Belarus, where they have voluntarily gone. But it is not quite reasonable to think it is something they can do; these people are being abused, and as has been pointed out before, the regime is such that people are fleeing it because it is terrible to live there. We need to stand up because, for whatever reason, asylum seekers migrants have the right to be treated with dignity and good reception under the EU's reception directive – which is actually binding on all Member States.
i-40e824a931dd3918-59	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the European Union must act jointly and in a coordinated manner to respond to Belarus' actions. We see continued pressure on the EU border, and attempts to push the Polish and Lithuanian borders in larger and smaller groups continue. However, the number of migrants arriving in Belarus has decreased, and return flights continue, albeit at a slow pace. Almost 4 000 people have so far returned to their home countries. Returning migrants testify in international media that they have been subjected to violence and degrading treatment of the Belarus border soldiers and prevented from returning from the border area to Minsk. Through its asylum authority EASO, the EU provides operational support to the Lithuanian Migration Authority in the form of human resources for the registration and interviews of asylum seekers and support in reception centres. A similar operational support to Latvia is provided mainly in the form of interpreting services and technical interview support. The EU has provided support to countries through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism through Frontex, EASO and Europol. Swedish authorities also contribute to EU support to the Member States concerned. For example, Sweden contributes staff from the Police Authority to Frontex in Lithuania. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has sent tents, beds and other equipment. Transparency and access to the border area for relief organisations, UNHCR and IOM, as well as the media, are important. Sweden has been in contact with UNHCR on several occasions. During my visit to Moscow, I raised the situation with Foreign Minister Lavrov and called on Russia to use its influence to remedy the situation. Unfortunately, we have not seen Moscow taking any steps in this direction. During the OSCE ministerial meeting in Stockholm, I had the opportunity to speak directly to Mr Makej, Secretary of State of Belarus, about the situation. I expressed Sweden's strong criticism both of how Belarus uses people to influence the EU and of the increasing repression of the people of Belarus. My trip to Iraq in November was a valuable opportunity to hear the Iraqi view of the situation. After all, Iraqis are the largest group in Belarus on its way to the EU. It is clear that action is needed in a number of areas. The situation at the border with Belarus was raised at the FAC on Monday. The conclusions of the European Council yesterday show how priority the issue is for the whole of Europe. We must protect our border while safeguarding the rights of migrants and refugees.
i-40e824a931dd3918-68	Madam President, I would like I think that, in both of his speeches, the Minister for Foreign Affairs put it well on the whole. I also share most of her views, Madam President, not least because she stressed that this is a hybrid attack. This is the central point. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how she sees the former Green Party Government having emphasised that this is an asylum issue and not a hybrid attack. Madam President, I would like It's a funny dance that Lukasjenko and Putin are doing. You might say Putin is an opportunist in terms of means, but he's very clear about his goals. He wants to establish a Russia with spheres of interest, interest zones and buffers. There are Belarus, Ukraine and Georgia. We are now seeing the constriction of troops at the Ukrainian border. Does the Foreign Minister see a link between the hybrid attack on Europe that Belarus is engaged in and the troop contractions that Russia is engaged in at the Ukrainian border?
i-40e824a931dd3918-71	Madam President, I would like When it comes to what MP thinks or doesn't think, they get to answer for it themselves, but when MP sat in the government we expressed in the same way that this is a hybrid attack. I also noted that the European Council's statement yesterday was clear and used the concept of hybrid attack. As far as Russia's role is concerned, we have seen no sign that Moscow is trying to use its influence to persuade Minsk to stop its attempts. Nor can we see any sign of this being initiated by Moscow. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the migration crisis has been discussed between Russia and Belarus and has been communicated through public channels. Either way, this use of people to put pressure on Europe is totally unacceptable. Nor has Russia done anything to say that it thinks the situation is terrible.
i-40e824a931dd3918-74	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to make it clear that the hybrid attack that Lukasjenko and Belarus are now carrying out on Europe is the responsibility of Lukasjenko and the pariah regime. However, we cannot fail to see that Mr Putin and the Kremlin regime are taking advantage of the opportunities offered by this. I therefore believe that it is wise for the Foreign Minister and his colleagues in Europe to keep their eyes on several directions at the same time. The unrest and pressure against Europe and the European Union that Mr Lukasjenko is engaged in can be used for Putin's own purposes linked to precisely what we see, that is, the very worrying rumble on the border with Ukraine. In addition, this is a Ukraine that has already been attacked with an illegal annexation of Crimea and war from the Russian side since 2014.
i-40e824a931dd3918-76	Madam President, I would like After all, these are two very serious crises which are being taken very seriously. I would like to stress once again – several speakers have already done so – that we must not forget to keep an eye on what is happening in Belarus. We must not just look at the migrant crisis, because over 900 political refugees, torture and so on are actually incredibly terrible. We must also keep an eye on what is happening on the border with Ukraine. Both the OSCE ministerial meeting and the European Council and EU foreign ministers have these two events at the heart of the discussion. A fifth round of sanctions has been introduced and the sanctioning regime has been extended. The EU has also fully agreed that massive countermeasures will be taken in the form of sanctions if there is any further aggression by Russia against Ukraine.
i-40e824a931dd3918-80	Madam President, I would like In the EU Council on Wednesday, the Prime Minister argued that EU countries must accept asylum seekers travelling through safe countries on their way to the EU because of what she calls international conventions. I assume that she refers to the Convention on the Status of Refugees. The main rule is that refugees must not be sent back to countries where they are at risk of being treated with protective measures or being in harm's way. However, there is no support whatsoever for the fact that Poland, for example, would be forced to receive migrants from Belarus as long as migrants can seek asylum in Belarus or simply go home, as we know they can. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what article of this refugee convention does the government interpret as an obligation for EU countries to admit migrants in this case? I have once written an essay on this convention at the Administrative Court, so I am quite familiar with it. I would argue that no such obligation exists.
i-40e824a931dd3918-82	Madam President, I would like On 14 October 2021, legislative amendments entered into force allowing Polish authorities to reject migrants directly at the border even if they seek asylum. According to the legislative amendments, an asylum application may be rejected without examination if it has been lodged by a person crossing the border irregularly and if the person concerned has come directly from a country where it is not at risk of persecution, has not presented credible reasons for the illegal entry and has not applied for asylum immediately after crossing the border. According to the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, the amendments aim to facilitate the handling of illegal border crossing cases and to ensure the security and protection of public order due to massive influxes of migrants into Europe, many of which are radicalised representatives of many cultures and religions or even extremists. The justification also refers to the abuse of the asylum system by economic migrants.
i-40e824a931dd3918-84	Madam President, I would like I am aware of this change of rule. That is exactly the kind of regulatory change that we discussed in the EU Board. The Prime Minister then argued that this type of change of regulation would require us to violate international conventions. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What is the Prime Minister's point? Here we have two ministers in the Swedish Government who say two diametrically opposite things. The Prime Minister says that we must accept asylum seekers travelling through safe countries on their way into the EU, for example between Belarus and Poland, while the Foreign Minister claims that this change of rule is perfectly legal. This is a strange thing. How does it affect Sweden's credibility on these issues that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do not agree on what the regulations really say?
i-40e824a931dd3918-88	Madam President, I would like The EU Member States have both a right and an obligation to maintain control over their own borders and the border that forms the EU's common border. As an EU Member State, Poland is supposed to act in accordance with international law, including human rights, and common EU law. International refugee law and human rights are to be safeguarded, but Poland's right to protect its border and the EU's border against those seeking to cross it irregularly or through violence must also be respected. Sweden is not in place at the Polish border and does not have the opportunity to assess the Polish action but of course follows the reporting closely. It is primarily the European Commission that will ensure that Member States comply with EU law. The Commission, too, has not been able to be present at the moment and to assess the behaviour more closely, but is now examining the legislative changes that have recently entered into force in Poland. It is important that human rights are respected at all times.
i-40e824a931dd3918-92	Madam President, I would like I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers Lukasjenko to be illegitimate, and if Lukasjenko is illegitimate, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Makej, mentioned by Foreign Minister Linde, must also be illegitimate. It is important to be clear in this respect, for Makej participated in the OSCE meeting in Stockholm at Arlanda. It is extremely important that Sweden is clear that it is an illegitimate representative of an illegitimate regime. Then I am curious, Madam President, when I hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs say that it is not a sign of one or the other that Russia does not do one or the other. Isn't this the sign of hybrid war? Is it not Putin's language not to know and not to make either one or the other visible?
i-40e824a931dd3918-94	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that Sweden does not recognise governments or regimes. We recognize states. It is very important to be able to have contact also with the Foreign Minister in Belarus and for that matter also with others. We have the very clear mission of the opposition to seek dialogue between the regime and the opposition. This was most recently confirmed when twelve EU foreign ministers met ten of the leaders of the Belarus opposition. Unfortunately, despite our attempts to push, the regime has been completely opposed to this. The aim is to try to get a way out of the situation so that free and fair elections can be held in Belarus, where the Belarussian people can choose their own leaders.
i-40e824a931dd3918-98	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear an answer. Is Lukasjenko, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, illegitimate - yes or no? I would also like to raise the issue of sanctions. Does the Foreign Minister see that there is reason to broaden the means of sanctions in order to achieve precisely corruption? Extensive corruption and systematic money laundering are the means used by authoritarian leaders to lubricate the system, and Europe must be able to face that. What does the Foreign Minister want to do to broaden the sanctions tool? Finally, a question on Frontex: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden think that Frontex should play a role in Poland or in other countries exposed to this type of hybrid attack?
i-40e824a931dd3918-101	Madam President, I would like I may not have to repeat that, because Kerstin Lundgren has heard me say a million times that Lukasjenko is not a legitimately elected President, and that is of course still the case. Of course, we have not changed our point of view there. When it comes to broadening sanctions, we have repeatedly said in this House, because Kerstin Lundgren mentions it every time, that we are, of course, prepared to see whether corruption and money laundering can be included in the so-called Magnitsky legislation. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as support for this today. That doesn't mean we don't keep working on that trail. The same is true of the role of Frontex. We have repeatedly said that we want to help Poland with EU Frontex. Poland, however, has declined. You don't want that help, which I think is a great pity because it would have given a transparency that is needed.
i-40e824a931dd3918-104	Madam President, I would like I believe that in Europe in 2021 a three kilometre wide and twenty kilometres long area would be established, where neither the media nor humanitarian organisations would be allowed access, was to be found, few of us believed. But it is now, unfortunately, a reality. Democratic developments in Poland have been going in the wrong direction for years, and now the state is preventing the outside world from seeing what is actually happening on European soil. I wonder how the Foreign Minister sees journalists and aid organisations not operating freely within the EU's borders. The second thing I wonder about is the violence of belarurian border guards that the Foreign Minister is highlighting. But we also see so-called pushbacks from Polish border guards. Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs taken up with Poland in any way how it is that violence is being used against people who are on the run?
i-40e824a931dd3918-107	Madam President, I would like It is primarily the European Commission that will ensure that Member States comply with EU law. Commissioner Ylva Johansson explained at his meeting with the Polish Minister for the Interior that Poland must be transparent and comply with international law. In addition, in her official statements, she stressed the importance of the parties complying with international law and respecting fundamental rights, including the right to seek asylum. Ylva Johansson has also pointed out that there must be border crossings where people have the opportunity to seek asylum. I also note that at our joint press conference at the OSCE ministerial meeting, the Polish Foreign Minister was asked that journalists have not been able to operate and see what is happening at the border. He then said that a media centre has been set up to allow journalists to come. But, of course, we are still underlining that we want full transparency.
i-40e824a931dd3918-109	Madam President, I would like I think it is good if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is on his party colleague Ylva Johansson to continue putting pressure on the Polish Government. We have seen pushbacks on other borders with Europe a little too many times, and now we see it also at the Polish border. However, I would like to return to Kerstin Lundgren's question about the visit of the Belarus Foreign Minister, whom the Foreign Minister himself raised. I can understand the desire to meet the representatives of an illegitimate dictatorship precisely in order to create dialogue and so on. But there are a few things on the visit that I still wonder about. On the one hand, a photo of the Minister for Foreign Affairs was taken together with the Belarus Foreign Minister, who was then used in the State-Belarus media, and on the other hand a visa was allowed for the Belarus State propaganda channel. Journalists used the visa that applied to the presidency when they watched meetings with exilers here in Stockholm.
i-40e824a931dd3918-111	Madam President, I would like When you are appointed minister, you always get the question: Do you have any corpses in your closet? My corpse in the closet is that I have met a large number of dictators during my time as internationally active, and there are certainly many pictures of me along with people who are completely undemocratic. That's because the line we have is that we always have to try to meet people, talk to them and express the criticism to make them change. In this case, it is an extremely clear criticism of what is happening and a desire for dialogue with the opposition, which is what the opposition still wants, to get out of this situation and put an end to the imprisonment and torture. So far they have shown no interest in it.
i-40e824a931dd3918-113	Madam President, I would like It is clear that any form of democratic development in Belarus, by extension, is a threat to Vladimir Putin and what is commonly called Russia's sphere of influence. The same applies to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people's declared willingness to move closer to the EU and NATO. Without Belarus and Ukraine, there will be no new Great Russia, and on this basis Putin acts. Therefore, the ongoing Russian build-up of forces on the border with Ukraine must be taken very seriously. There is no need for excesses and no alarmism, but for preparation and preparedness from the Swedish side. What is the government's plan if the crisis in Belarus continues and Putin attacks Ukraine?
i-40e824a931dd3918-116	Madam President, I would like It is very positive that the whole of the EU and other Western countries that are not part of the EU are in complete agreement on this issue. Both Ukraine and Belarus are referred to in the conclusions of the European Council of yesterday. If there is continued military aggression, there will be massive consequences, including sanctions, which are coordinated with EU partners on an unprecedented scale.
i-40e824a931dd3918-118	Madam President, I would like I sincerely appreciate the answer but, at the same time, call for greater clarity. In the situation we find ourselves in, concrete measures and clarity towards Russia must also be taken by the Swedish side. I therefore have two follow-up questions. Why does the government not call for a stop to the launch of the Russian German gas pipeline Nord Stream 2 as the Baltic States do? It is a measure which Mr Putin definitely does not want to see, but which is supported by a majority here in Parliament. Why does the government not make it clear to Moscow that the threats to Ukraine and Belarus underline the need for Swedish NATO membership?
i-40e824a931dd3918-122	Madam President, I would like As Lars Adaktusson knows, I made the Swedish line following a decision by the EU Board that we want Nord Stream 2 to be stopped. Together with Lithuania, we were the only two countries to deliver this. We cannot control the German authorities, which are now looking at whether this is in line with Europe's energy agreements. With regard to the threats to Ukraine, it is not something that leads us to believe that it would be positive for Sweden to enter NATO, on the contrary. Sweden has chosen freedom of alliance as a security policy line, and it serves the country well. The government has no plans to change this position.
i-40e824a931dd3918-125	Madam President, I would like It was a BBC interview with Aleksandr Lukasjenko this week, and it was completely bizarre though clarification. It showed that Aleksandr Lukasjenko does not only have alternative facts but also lives in an alternative reality. Sweden and Minister Linde have held the Presidency of the OSSE over the past year, and we are now heading towards the end of our Presidency. How has Sweden worked to improve the situation in Belarus during the Presidency, and what could we have done?
i-40e824a931dd3918-127	Madam President, I would like This issue has dominated our Presidency, and we have used a number of OSCE tools. For example, we have had talks in Vienna with various stakeholders. We have also used the so-called Moscow mechanism, which means sending an OSSE rapporteur to the country in question. Here came the rapporteur with 80 proposals for changes that both the regime and others need to make. We have also expressed strong criticism on several occasions and met the opposition in Belarus many times. The EU and the OSSE have somewhat different roles, but we have always worked very clearly with Belarus.
i-40e824a931dd3918-129	Madam President, I would like If I am not mistaken, it is Poland that is taking over the Presidency. What advice has the Minister of Foreign Affairs given Poland to increase pressure on Belarus and to find a solution that reduces repression and facilitates the transition to a democratically led government and the exodus of the Lukashenko regime?
i-40e824a931dd3918-130	Madam President, I would like It would be presumptuous of me to give Zbigniew Rau advice. But we are having a close discussion, and on the vast majority of issues, except for some specific ones, we have a very good dialogue. Of course, I have shared with you a series of experiences that we have gained. Sweden is also part of the Troika from 1 January together with Poland and North Macedonia, so we will continue to work closely together. There is nothing that makes me think that Poland would not continue along these lines that Sweden has had during its Presidency.
i-40e824a931dd3918-133	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for all the answers so far. I note that when our parties were in government together, I stood where you stand and answered questions about what you who sat behind my back thought about different things. Now you're gonna have to answer questions while I'm in the room. It's exciting. Let me follow up on the issue of transparency and the humanitarian crisis. The Green Party has not changed its position that this is a hybrid attack. It has been the focus, but I want to highlight the people who are at the border. Speaking of Frontex and the fact that Poland has rejected it, how long can this continue? People at borders must not, of course, have their rights met in terms of medical care and security, among other things.
i-40e824a931dd3918-137	Let me remind the honourable Member that we are talking through the President and we are not using you.
i-40e824a931dd3918-138	Madam President, I would like Of course, this is also a humanitarian disaster. Both the U N HCR and the IOM have said that they want to contribute humanitarian aid on both sides of the border. Since 1 December there has been a state of emergency throughout the Polish border region with Belarus and therefore NGOs have not been allowed to stay in the area. The new legislation replacing the state of emergency severely restricts access to the border area for both relief organisations and the media. But on the Berausian side, aid organisations have visited migrants, and they have engaged in dialogue with the Belausian authorities in order to find solutions. These refugees receive daily assistance.
i-40e824a931dd3918-140	Madam President, I would like If I venture to sum up all these lines, the Foreign Minister has talked a lot about what has happened recently and what is happening now. But what happens in the longer term? These people will survive the winter, and then come spring and summer. What needs to be done in a slightly longer perspective, say six months ahead? What do you need to hold?
i-40e824a931dd3918-142	Madam President, I would like The most important thing is that migrants are returned to their home countries. I was in Erbil, Kurdistan, talking to them, because the largest group comes from there. The political leaders there are very anxious that they come back. It is not that it has primarily been migrants who have been persecuted and so on from there, but for economic reasons. The political leaders in Kurdistan have seen it as part of a responsibility to take back everyone who has gone there with false hopes for a better economic future. It has also been asked for help from the European Union in funding aircraft and such things. I believe that the most important thing is to bring all the migrants back to their respective countries of origin.
i-40e824a931dd3918-145	Madam President, I would like Belarus has repeatedly proved to be a pariah regime through its actions. Unfortunately, the EU's Eastern Partnership is limping. Belarus is going just in the wrong direction with internal repression, but also with the type of hybrid attacks that we are now observing. Georgia strives forward but sometimes slips back. Ukraine and Moldova are the good examples. So is it not also a question of making it clearer that good political progress towards greater openness, free economy, pluralism and credibility in the fight against corruption should be rewarded by the EU? At the same time, where we correctly designate the Belarus regime as a pariah, we shall say that the Ukrainian and Moldovan governments are taking a better course towards the Europe of our values. It must be noticed in our relationships. The world around us and the EU are acting in different ways against Belarus for the country's widespread abuse of its own population but also against hybrid attacks and, in practice, a state-sanctioned aircraft creation to capture journalist Raman Pratasevitj. There are contacts with the regime that is being condemned. At the same time, other parts of Belarus such as Svetlana Tichhanovskaya should be opened up. You should have parallel conversations. Svetlana Tikhanovskaya and the other part of the freedom forces represent democracy. It can inspire that side to have that contact and exchange and stun the other side, Lukasjenko side. It is just as has been mentioned here. The Foreign Minister recently shook hands with Foreign Minister Vladimir Makei at the OSCE Foreign Minister's meeting in Stockholm. There may be arguments for that. But it is not next to him that the Swedish Government's representatives should stand, but we will receive Svetlana Tichhanovskaya with open arms.
i-40e824a931dd3918-152	Madam President, I would like What I am missing in this debate and which I am trying to highlight alone are the ethical aspects of the regulatory framework that we ourselves decide entirely on. The reason why the deadly cat-and-rat game continues is that the government and the Commission cannot be honest. On the one hand, they want to impose an updated asylum system on 27 Member States, which in practice obliges Member States to allow anyone in for any reason as long as they say the word asylum. On the other hand, out of pure fear of voters, they are desperately trying to keep migrants away from the Union's external borders. They do so by paying the ransom to rogue states such as Turkey, but also by hiring border guards, in a loose sense, from Libya, for example. What an ethical politician should do is one of two things. Either we open free travel to Sweden without limitation by air and take the voter's verdict at the next election. But you do not want to do that because you know that the voter's verdict will be very harsh. Or we limit the possibility of seeking asylum in the EU. People enter through a safe country – which the UN Refugee Convention fully and clearly allows – which is both logical and humane given the situation we find ourselves in. But you don't want to let them do that either. Many politicians in Europe like to signal value and preach to other world leaders when they get the chance. The consequences of today's system are for ordinary people in the form of deaths on the Mediterranean or in the forests a between Belarus and Poland. The consequences in Europe come from the fact that these flows finance both international crime and terrorist organisations. No one seems to care about that. I find that very strange.
i-40e824a931dd3918-157	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Ludvig Aspling, I hear an argument that makes this debate more of a migration debate. I understood that we were fairly agreed that there is a hybrid warfare going on from Lukasjenko side, cynically using people who hope that Lukasjenko words will give them sanctuary. Madam President, I would like Do the Swedish Democrats and Ludvig Aspling have a view that this is a migration issue, or is it a hybrid attack? Does Ludvig Aspling see that Putin, Lukasjenko and others are really using this to destabilise with the support of right-wing and left-wing forces in the EU to conduct this debate?
i-40e824a931dd3918-159	Madam President, I would like The obvious answer to that question is that it is both. It's a hybrid attack. But why does this type of hybrid warfare work? Because there is a theoretical chance for people to obtain asylum after irregular entry into the Union. If these migration routes were not open, no one would go on these trips. It's absolutely obvious. I do not understand how Kerstin Lundgren cannot see this. The people who travel to Europe this way come mainly from the Kurdish region of Iraq. Knowledge of Europe in the Kurdish region of Iraq is generally quite good. I myself have friends with roots from there. I am sure that more people in this House have a similar situation. In many cases, these people know what they're getting into. But the value of going to the EU is so high that they are still embarking on this type of travel. That is the value we need to get rid of.
i-40e824a931dd3918-162	Madam President, I would like If it is a destabilising attack, with Mr Putin's good memory, it is also destabilising because Mr Putin and Russia have clearly funded forces in Europe trying to strike at the right of asylum. They use people who seek asylum for their own purposes of power. It may be Le Pen, Orbán or others who speak in terms that really polarise and destabilise and do not contribute to solutions. When I listen to Ludvig Aspling, I hear about the same tone of voice. I wonder, of course, whether the Swedish Democrats stand up for the right of asylum, yes or no?
i-40e824a931dd3918-165	Madam President, I would like The right of asylum is not relevant in this case. The UN Convention on the Status of Refugees does not say that a country must allow migrants from another country if the country through which the migrants travel is safe and if they can seek asylum on the ground, do not risk protective treatment or are able to leave. The migrants can do that in this case. A lot of people are doing it right now because Poland has kept its limit. Those who raise the right of asylum as a reason for us to open the borders in this case are 100% people who do not know what the right of asylum really says about this situation. I find it sad that Kerstin Lundgren is one of those people. She has been on the Foreign Affairs Committee for a long time. I expected her to have better knowledge than that.
i-40e824a931dd3918-167	Madam President, I would like In our opinion, today's debate is not a debate on migration or asylum. Nor is it a question of the Polish-Lithuania-Belarus relationship. It is not a question of the devastating humanitarian situation through which people have been cynically lured to Belarus. Basically, it is about the relationship between Russia-Belarus and the EU. It is about the wishes of Putin and the Kremlin for their own security regime and their veto over the countries that the Kremlin sees as part of Russia's sphere of influence. It has led President Niinistö to clarify the Finnish NATO option. I heard the Foreign Minister speaking a completely different language here, Madam President, and I regret that. Sweden becomes alone in the non-aligned circle in this part of the world, and it is dangerous. It's not safe. Instead, Sweden should do as the majority in Parliament has said and make a clear NATO option, just like Finland. It is important, Madam President, that the EU should act together on the basis of an overall picture of what is going on. We have heard Lukasjenko talk about everything from nuclear weapons to gas, and only when gas came up did Putin react audiblely by speaking and saying stop. The EU must respond with the gas question. Nord Stream 2 is a clear signal to Putin and Kremlin. Finally, Madam President, it is important for Poland to be persuaded to accept Frontex, to work with transparency and to uphold the EU's humanitarian values. The right of asylum must apply to those who ask the question.
i-40e824a931dd3918-172	Madam President, I would like On 9 August 2020, the dictator Lukasjenko conducted the sixth fraudulent election in Belarus in order to try once again to deceive everyone that he had legitimacy as a leader. This time it didn't work out. The Belarus people had grown tired and now went out on the streets protesting for millions. They had voted for Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who was one of the few oppositionists allowed to stand up. Tikhanovskaya stepped forward after her husband, the video blogger Sergej, had been arrested and later sentenced to 18 years in prison for Lukasjenko the term And the fact that Alexandr Lukasjenko is a cockroach parasitic to the hard - to - test belarusic people cannot be mistaken. For over 25 years of misrule, the wealth of the land has come to him and his loved ones, not the people. Through skilful political games, he has softened the tone of both Moscow and Europe – so much so that even Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde has met him. Now that time has to be over. The West must stop holding the regime under its arms, whether it is about receiving and photographing politicians, giving export credits or giving government propaganda television visas to Sweden. Now the sanctions imposed on the regime must be long-term until they lead to real change: to free, fair and transparent elections, to democracy and until Lukasjenko leaves power. Until then, Sweden and everyone else must support the belarus opposition, which has now established itself around the world. Aid has been redirected, but there are still major shortcomings in the form of cumbersome regulatory barriers which have led to too little support being realised from us. Let our solidarity with the Belarus people burn strong and long! With that, I wish the President, the Parliament officials and Members a really good Christmas. I hope you send a thought to the people who celebrate Christmas in the cold and wet border regions.
i-40e824a931dd3918-178	Madam President, I would like The vast majority who have participated in the debate have repeatedly used the word hybrid attack. Håkan Svenneling is the exception, Madam President. His speeches and his lines have been liberating – if the word is adequate – free from it. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask the question: does the Left Party not share most of the views of the other parties that this is one of Belarus' orchestrated hybrid attacks on our Europe? In addition, Håkan Svenneling has spent quite a lot of time picking on Poland. And you can do that. It is my sister party that is the opposition party in Poland. But isn't that exactly what Belarus wants – to have the internal settlement between EU countries instead of focusing on Belarus?
i-40e824a931dd3918-181	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I share the analysis that Mr Wallmark and all the other parties have expressed here. The problem with the concept of hybrid attack is that you make it sound like humans are missiles. Military concepts are used. This means that I have not wanted to bring this into the debate, but rather to focus on the humanitarian aspect of these people and the problem of not creating legal, legitimate paths to Europe. The Swedish Democrats are talking about a value of the journey. I would like to say that if we had instead built opportunities for people to legally apply for asylum abroad to come to Europe, many people would not take the risky journeys across seas and through forests that could lead to people's deaths. I hope to be able to change this in the EU's asylum policy. As far as support is concerned, our support for the belarus opposition is strong, as I highlighted in the speech. I don't think I'm playing Lukasjenko in my hands.
i-40e824a931dd3918-185	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view of the opposition and the democratic forces with Svetlana Tikhanovskaya at the head of Håkan Svenneling. I don't criticise him for that. On the other hand, I believe that Lukasjenko is using this hybrid attack on Europe very deliberately – partly because it has pressure on Europe's borders and partly because it has chosen Poland. Lukasjenko knows that many other European countries are highly critical of Poland for a variety of things internally in that country. But that must not prevent us from defending Poland when Poland is attacked as an important part of the European Union. Therefore, it is correct to use the term hybrid attack. Madam President, I would like I would also like to conclude by wishing Comrade Svenneling a Merry Christmas and reminding him and the rest of the House that many Santas are actually red.
i-40e824a931dd3918-188	Madam President, I would like That's where the playing field is. The EU has already arranged it with Turkey agreements, money for Morocco and some sort of mysterious support for a non-functioning Libyan coastguard. It is easy for Lukasjenko to come up with this idea; that is the problem. We must snatch the gamebook out of his hands and give people legal and legitimate ways to come to Europe instead of embarking on these dangerous roads. I am concerned when you say that Poland should not be criticised. The democratic development in Poland has slowed down something incredible and enormous for a long time. I even see criticism on the part of the Foreign Minister when she says that it is a pity that Frontex has not helped. Frontex is now far from being my favorite authority, but I still think that there has been clarity in helping Poland to be a democracy. That is why we care about Poland. That is also why we are criticising the things Poland is doing. It is not playing into the hands of Lukasjenko; it is standing up for democratic values throughout Europe.
i-40e824a931dd3918-192	Madam President, I would like What is happening in Belarus and Ukraine are parts of the same problem, in which the root of the evil is spelled Vladimir Putin. It is therefore relevant in this debate also to talk about the Russian build-up of forces on the border with eastern Ukraine. Exactly what type of dressing is involved is constantly analysed. However, the intention to threaten and destabilise is evident. Since before, we know that Putin is moving borders in Europe. We know that he sees the fall of the Soviet Union as the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century. Madam President, I would like Military intelligence services in Europe and the United States are now alerting that Russia may already after New Year have military capabilities in place for an offensive against Ukraine. It is therefore welcome and important that it is now clearly stated from Brussels that the EU fully supports Ukraine. What this may mean is the President of the Commission when she says that the EU is ready to take unprecedented action. There must be no doubt whatsoever that Sweden is behind this approach. Security in our country and in the immediate vicinity we build together with others. Full Swedish membership is and remains the logical conclusion of this. Madam President, I would like At stake today are fundamental democratic and international law principles such as the European Security Order and the right of every nation to decide on its own membership and future – values that can never be negotiable.
i-40e824a931dd3918-197	Madam President, I would like Aleksandr Lukasjenko and Vladimir Putin blame the EU for the crisis on the border with Poland. It fits the Russian and belarusian narrative about the evil, depraved Europe. But let us not be useful idiots for these regimes. Our focus must remain on what is at the root of the problem. Madam President, I would like What, then, is it that we need to continue to do? The EU needs to ensure that Poland continues to open up the area to foreign media and relief organisations. There is a difference between democracy and dictatorship, and it must always be demonstrated. The EU needs to intensify negotiations with countries of origin to ensure that air links are continued to be withdrawn, belarusian consulates closed and so on. We also need to continue to sanction the belarusian illegitimate regime. A fifth package of sanctions is in place, but much more can still be done. Additional sectors need to be added. The sanctions packages need to be coherent between the EU, the US, the UK and Canada. The representatives of the government in Belarus need to be brought to justice for the crimes committed. Madam President, I would like It goes towards Christmas, but it is not a fun Christmas for the people who are in the prison called Belarus in today's Europe. I would therefore like to conclude by saying, 'Zjyve Belarus!'
i-40e824a931dd3918-201	Madam President, I would like Using people in distress as pawns in a political game is unacceptable. What exactly is a human life worth? Yes, it seems a little different depending on who you are and where you are. The disastrous situation that we are currently witnessing at the Polish-Belarus border is multifaceted and the result of long geopolitical tensions with the EU on one side, Belarus and Russia on the other. No, this is not mainly a migration issue. But it is ultimately about real people of flesh and blood. It is important that EU foreign ministers take all the diplomatic pressure they have to scale down the rapidly escalating conflict in our neighbourhood. If you want to talk about what is now going on as a security policy issue, remember that this attack on Europe is possible because authoritarian leaders in our neighbourhood take advantage of the weakness that the EU cannot agree on a solidarity and strong migration policy. In any case, it is important that both the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights and humanitarian actors, human rights organisations and international media have access to the border areas on both sides of the border. In this way, several actors can monitor how human rights are respected and ensure that people's urgent needs are met. The Green Party will always put people in focus, not borders – people fighting for a better life, people fighting for a free and democratic Belarus.
i-40e824a931dd3918-206	Madam President, I would like In contrast to the Left Party, Camilla Hansén has used the term hybrid attack once. But I would still like to ask the question which is the primary one here. In fact, there are three parties who have spent a great deal of time in their speeches on asylum and migration, namely the Swedish Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party – albeit from slightly different points of view, Madam President, but still. Five parties have pointed out precisely what is crucial, namely that this is a hybrid attack on Europe. Then it is quite true that these are people of flesh and blood. You should have that insight with you. But this action is not a coincidence. I think it would be good if the Green Party could confirm that it shares that world view. Finally, I am curious as to whether the Green Party, which is now no longer a government party, has any point of view on the current government as regards its approach to the EU and asylum issues linked to Belarus.
i-40e824a931dd3918-210	Madam President, I would like It is a dilemma when you discuss these issues where the focus should be. My search for this debate was that for many Members it would be held at a rather abstract level with the word choices about hybrid wars and so on. I think Håkan Svenneling caught it in a good way: If you talk about hybrid war, it doesn't sound like people you're talking about, but like these people in the border regions are weapons. Although we share the common ground that this is a hybrid attack, I see that we also need to lift these people. We also need to raise the question of how we act. If, after 2015 – 2016, the EU had shaped itself around a way of dealing with people on the run who were stable and in which the countries were mutually supportive, this weapon would not exist.
i-40e824a931dd3918-212	Madam President, I would like Now the overall question is that people in need would not be on the border between Belarus and Poland unless the pariah regime in Minsk had flown them into the country. The purpose of these acts is, of course, to create pressure on the EU, to try to create disorder and instability and to tear itself apart. That is also why Poland has been chosen very deliberately and not as before, for example, Lithuania. Poland is burdened with many other internal difficulties and problems to which the rest of us in the European family are critical, but on this particular issue we must defend Poland. Poland is also defending the rest of the EU. Does the Green Party not see this, Madam President?
i-40e824a931dd3918-214	Madam President, I would like Yes, this is what the Green Party sees. But what we also see is that the rift is there because Europe is leaving it open. Had the EU had a solidarity and stable migration policy, this would not have been an interesting weapon for Lukasjenko. Had you been able to seek asylum when you really needed it, from anywhere in the world to a safe place somewhere else in the world, you would not have had to be fooled by a dictator. It has even been suggested here that those people are probably not even fooled – although quite a few of us probably understand that this is the way it is – but that they are deliberately taking a chance. Perhaps that is the case in some cases. I can also respect the fact that you take a chance when you want a better and safer life. But the problem is this rift that Europe is exposing, what we could have done better.
i-40e824a931dd3918-217	Madam President, I would like An environmentalist MEP, former minister, recently wrote a F acebook in which she equated the Polish government with the dictatorship in Minsk. She implicated the Lukasjenko that the two have equal responsibility for the situation that has arisen, and she concluded by saying: ..................................................... In addition to the fact that this testifies to a grotesque ignorance, the Environmental Party Putin- Lukasjenko shoulder is playing straight into the hands. This is exactly how the situation is described in their regime-controlled media. The Green Party's proposal for a solution is also exactly the same as Mr Putin advocates: that we simply open up borders. I would therefore like to ask Camilla Hansén whether she sees it as a problem that the Green Party is in practice reiterating Russian state propaganda on this issue.
i-AnYdyuhyJjsQhjhjTGgeLG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling! So we have now been transferred to the European Parliament. It is adventurous for us simple Members of Parliament. In fact, I do not think that we in the Green Party usually say: Let everyone come here! But we dream of a world where you should be able to choose where you want to live, where war, terror or other things should not chase people away from countries but where you should be able to move where you want because of love, work or study – a peaceful world. It's pretty far away. When innocent people get caught, we focus on those people. It's people who get caught here. The Green Party does not repeat anyone's propaganda. When our parliamentarians, regardless of Parliament, speak out, it is the policy of the Green Party that they stand for.
i-40e824a931dd3918-224	Madam President, I would like So Camilla Hansén says that the Green Party does not advocate the liberalisation of immigration. But in the replica with Hans Wallmark that she had less than three minutes ago, she said that she wanted you to be able to apply for asylum from anywhere in the world you want and then fly directly to Sweden. It is, in practice, completely liberalised immigration. This would mean that the welfare building that is the very purpose of the Swedish state must be completely liberalised. We do not want that, but it is possible that the Green Party has such plans for the future. I hope that is not the case, but it obviously looks that way. However, the question will come back again. One of the Green Party's MEPs, a former minister of the Swedish government, said at a time when the Green Party was part of the Swedish government exactly the same thing about this situation, one that the Russian state media said: that both sides are equally good cabbage drinkers. Does the Green Party stand by it?
i-40e824a931dd3918-226	Madam President, I would like Looks like Ludvig Aspling is listening to the MP who's fucking reading the Bible. We're talking about the right to seek asylum – that is, when someone has reason to be afraid of their life and can apply for protection and that application is being examined – in what way could it be the same as us wanting to open all the borders and let everyone go around as they want? It's not that. Now we are in Parliament's Chamber. If former ministers, who are now Members of the European Parliament, speak, it does not matter whether they have been former ministers. An MEP for the Green Party speaks about the policy of the Green Party. There's the focus on the people. If it is in the way that people are beaten on the Polish side the border and beaten back on the Belarus side, that they are repeatedly pushed back and forth, there is something seriously wrong with human vision.
i-40e824a931dd3918-229	Madam President, I would like If we are to focus on the people, we must see the tens of thousands of people who have been arrested in Belarus. We must see those affected in Ukraine and Russia. And if we want to find a way away from what is now going on, it is important that we see what is really going on. I believe that the Green Party sees this debate above all as a debate on migration. It is actually going wrong, in our view, Madam President. This is a question of hybrid attacks aimed at achieving the sphere of interest that Mr Putin and the Kremlin are clearly talking about. All methods are used to get there. I wonder if the Green Party really does not see that picture.
i-GKgdrsBph28ZrL1o2RAwf1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! I've been trying to explain in some lines now that we're seeing that picture– I understand that I must have been a little unclear before. We also see that right now, when we are debating the situation on the border between Poland and Belarus, people are suffering. This is not mainly a migration issue. However, as we are not quite able to deal with when these people come to the European Union's borders, it is a mere thing that Lukasjenko can use to shake the European Union. It's unnecessary to leave that surface. That's too bad. We didn't have to do that. This is, of course, a much bigger game, which is currently a humanitarian disaster on the border between Poland and Belarus.
i-40e824a931dd3918-235	Madam President, I would like Far more have been forced to flee Belarus because of Lukasjenko oppression, torture, imprisonment and abuse of his people. He's taken his population hostage in the game that's going on. If we really want to put people in focus – and I think that is right – it is important to stand up for their right to freedom and to democracy, whether they live in Belarus or in Russia. Then we must be clear and stand up also against the forces that are trying to destabilise in order to achieve broader repression also in relation to Sweden, as part of the sphere of interest they want to see. Then we need to speak clearly and stand up for the limit that applies to the European Union, including on these issues.
i-40e824a931dd3918-237	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I will surprise the House. We don't usually say madly often that we agree with each other, but I agree with what Kerstin Lundgren says. There's a much bigger picture. Many of us are also deeply involved in what is happening in Belarus and in the democratic movement around the world to support a free and democratic Belarus. Today is the day we are discussing this border. It's a very small part of a big puzzle. Nevertheless, I believe that we in this House are quite agreed to stand up for a free and democratic Belarus and democracy in all the senses of the word. We reject all kinds of political prisoners, dictatorships and oppression of our own people, which are taking place in Belarus.
i-40e824a931dd3918-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to pay tribute to the Green Party and to Camilla Hansén for highlighting the situation of those people who are ultimately affected by the situation. It is, as has been said before, a disgusting, cynical game that has led to these people becoming pawns and being exploited because they are so vulnerable. It is good that this is highlighted and that it is said. It is essentially our humanitarian responsibility to help them in their vulnerability. At the same time, I find it worrying that in Camilla Hansén's speech and in the debate it has sounded like the European Union has a responsibility for the situation. I would like to ask Camilla Hansén whether it is the European Union's fault that this situation has arisen.
i-40e824a931dd3918-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the kind words and for the question! We must be able to look at this at different levels, one of which is very concrete how many people will sleep in the open sky in the forests between Belarus and Poland tonight. That's one. Then it goes all the way up to the highest geopolitical levels. I believe that the European Union has a responsibility in that we have exposed an unnecessary weakness. We should be able to act vigorously at the highest diplomatic levels against a dictator like Lukasjenko. At the same time, we must ensure that people who are forced into the border with the European Union by force do not have to spend the night out. People freeze to death within the borders of the EU. It's still not worthy. We must be able to deal with this at the same time.
i-40e824a931dd3918-245	Madam President, I would like I still find this worrying, Camilla Hansén. If we do not say very clearly that the blame and responsibility lie on two despotias in our neighbourhood that use the situation in a hybrid warfare to advance their own positions and achieve their own goals, if we do not have it as our main focus and if we do not constantly emphasise and highlight this, we are neglecting a dimension of the issue that is absolutely central. I agree that there are shortcomings in European policy in many different respects, but in this context there is something quite different. I'd love to have said that. Like previous Members, I would like to wish the President, the Presidium of Presidents, Parliament officials and all colleagues a really good Christmas.
i-40e824a931dd3918-248	Madam President, I would like It does not matter what type of crime we are talking about, because the blame and responsibility always lie with the perpetrator, who in this case is Lukasjenko. He deliberately uses people as pawns in a political game. If there is no doubt. I sometimes think about working in a democracy. Lars Adaktusson says, yes, but there are shortcomings in the EU. Yes, there are shortcomings everywhere where one works in a democracy, because that is difficult. Sometimes I think that this is exactly what dictators cannot do. You're looking for some kind of perfection where you get to decide everything. But there is no perfect world. On the other hand, there may be democracies where you hook arms and help lift each other to build societies that are as strong as possible. I would like to thank the President, Lars Adaktusson, all my colleagues and everyone who works here in Parliament and wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-40e824a931dd3918-252	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, in this difficult situation, I would like to conclude by recalling a series of measures that the European Union has taken. In addition to what I have mentioned in the debate, the Commission has proposed a number of temporary asylum and return measures to support Latvia, Lithuania and Poland and to address the increase in the number of asylum seekers at the border with Belarus. These measures will enable them to establish rapid and orderly processes to deal with the situation with full respect for human rights and international commitments including the principle of non-refoulement and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Finally, I would like to say that it is self-evident that we should continue to support the courageous opposition in Belarus and demand the full release of all political prisoners, free and fair elections and the immediate introduction of democracy. With this, I wish the participants in the debate and the Presidents a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
i-40e824a931dd3918-257	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me how I intend to respond to the increase in illegal cabotage. Furthermore, Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to restore public confidence in the police's ability to solve crimes, and what measures the government intends to take to enable the public to reach the police within a reasonable response period. In view of the fact that both exchanges concern the activities of the Political Authority related to the traffic area, they are answered together. My predecessor, Mikael Damberg, answered a written question from Thomas Morell on the need for increased resources at roadside inspections on 3 November, and I have the same message to give. The government has commissioned an investigator to identify and analyse the current control activities in the field of professional traffic and to make proposals to that effect. The report 'Inspections on the way' has been referred and is now being prepared within the Government Office. The Government decided on 28 October 2021 to increase penalties for unauthorised cabotage transport in order to increase compliance. The penalty fee is increased from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000. The amendments to the Regulation also specify what is meant by cabotage in accordance with the EU freight regulation. The customer responsibility is also adjusted to make it clear that an unauthorised shipment does not have to be completed in order for the customer to be held liable. These are strong measures to reduce illegal transport on our roads. In the autumn, the Police Authority reported on the task it was given last year to develop the Agency's traffic work, including checks on professional traffic. The number of illegal cabotage, for example, last year has increased by nearly 450 per cent compared to 2016. The number of cases continues to increase this year. It is very gratifying that the Police Authority states that road safety work is a high priority in the Agency. It is also positive that the Agency's controls on professional traffic have significantly increased in recent years. In terms of the number of checks carried out, the type of control, such as the control of driving and rest periods and the flying inspection of commercial vehicles, is well above the level of the commitments set out in the relevant EU directives. It is important that the number of checks on professional traffic continues to increase, so it is to be welcomed that the Agency reports in the report that the capacity for control of professional traffic will be increased in the coming years. The expansion of the Police Authority will lead to a real increase in ambition also in road safety work, including checks on professional traffic. The report referred to by Thomas Morell in his second interpellation has been produced in a collaboration between the Swedish Åkeri Company, the Swedish Police Authority and Alarm Service. It is very gratifying that this cooperation is being conducted in order to reduce crime and increase security along our roads. According to the latest safety survey, the NTU, confidence in the police remains high. 5 8% of the population have great or fairly high confidence in the way the police do their work. This is the highest level in the NTU so far, and it is an increase of as much as 16 percentage points since 2017. The Government continuously monitors the development of the Political Authority's service. The proportion of citizens who are satisfied with the police's response and the execution of their case was 92 and 86 per cent respectively in 2020. These are good results, which also show positive developments. Those who state that the Police Authority has high availability amount to 58 percent. The Police Contact Centre handles over 1 million calls annually, and in the period January – September 2021 73 per cent of all calls were handled within five minutes. The number of e-services for reporting offences and performing different types of application procedures has increased, which has also contributed to increasing accessibility to 114 14. For ongoing offences to be reported, SOS Alarm should be contacted via 112. A basic condition for all operational police activities is that the police are present in society by preventing crime, intervening and investigating crime. This also applies to further improving the situation on the roads. Here, the expansion of the Police Authority is a central part, and the government is carrying out a historic effort on the agency. The goal is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 from the beginning of 2016 to the end of 2024, and by mid-year, the number of employees had increased by 7,000. According to the police department, the target is possible to reach. I note that public confidence in the police is strong and has increased in recent years. There is always the possibility of further improving accessibility, and I know that the Police Authority is engaged in continuous and strategic work to develop the links to and from the agency.
i-40e824a931dd3918-268	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Yesterday I had several interpellation debates with Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Then we talked about the illegal traffic that figures in Sweden. Swedish haulage companies are exposed to this type of vehicle. You steal diesel and vehicle components. You remove doors, front sections, tyres, brake cocks, lighting ramps, rear-view mirrors– yes, basically everything that is not welded on the car rides along. Swedish hauliers are exposed to this type of crime in a different way than the public. I did not ask a question about public confidence in the police, but it is precisely about the confidence of the haulage industry in the police. The report produced by this survey is rather critical of the police, one must say. I read the conclusion in the report: The answers show that the members of Sweden's Åkeri companies experience frustration and resignation in contact with the police. There are words that are useless and useless and hopeless and a lack of interest from the police when they have been subjected to crime. There is also a lack of understanding of why a police report should be made in connection with a crime. Many report only when the insurance company requires this. Contributing to the statistics is also not a reason for making a notification. It is perceived as pointless, as a notification is often closed almost immediately. And what do the statistics contribute to? Many people wonder why they should get involved and report when it takes time and no feedback is given either. It is possible to read a certain disintegration between the lines in the free responses. It is rather alarming that a whole category of professionals, or rather a whole cluster of entrepreneurs, feel that the police do not provide the support that can reasonably be requested when you are a victim of crime. This survey will certainly now be discussed. Maybe police action will be taken. Let us hope that this is the case! But I also assume that the Government is aware that there is a form of criminality that is road-borne and extremely serious for society. I cannot help commenting on what is said in the interpellation response about increasing the number of police employees by 10 000. This is not the same as police officers, but civil servants are also included in that category. There has been an increase of 7,000, as it is at present. After all, the police who are expected to come out are not graduates on a large scale yet, but mainly civilian staff. That is not to say that they are not doing a good job. But it is precisely the uniformed staff on their way that is so important to deal with the crime that is out there. The fact that there are civil servants inside the house who take care of reports and perhaps conduct interrogations or investigate crimes, for example, is great. But first of all, there must be uniformed personnel working against the criminals, so that we can overcome crime. Filling police houses with civilian staff and not having enough people on the road does not lead to positive developments. Here, the government must change up and, above all, give clear instructions to the police as to what it expects to get to grips with this type of crime. We must not forget that the road is the biggest crime scene we have in Sweden.
i-40e824a931dd3918-274	Madam President, I would like I'd really appreciate it if Thomas Morell and SD stopped blacking out the police for their traffic work. There is no justification whatsoever for that. I see how the police have been working against the criminality of traffic issues and on the roads. There have been very positive developments in recent years. In 2020, 15 000 inspections were carried out on commercial vehicles. There was an increase of 34 percent since 2018. In the same year 6,500 controls were carried out on dangerous goods, which was an increase of 17 per cent since 2018. In 2020, 272 penalties were also imposed for illegal cabotage, which we are talking about today. This was an increase of as much as 450 per cent since 2016. If there is anything the police have done in this area, it is precisely that they have switched the work towards this kind of crime. On top of that, we also have increased fines. So when we take those who drive black and do these illegal transports on the roads, they also get a higher penalty fee now than they got before. We increased the fee from 40 000 to 60 000 in October. I say that the police's efforts against this crime have increased sharply in recent years. I think that the police should have a confession for instead of this sweeping accusation that you are not doing anything; it is, in fact, completely wrong. They say there's a low level of confidence in the police. That's wrong, too. Public confidence, I say, is higher than ever, at least according to what we have been able to measure. The latest NTU shows that 58 percent have strong confidence in the police, an increase of 16 percentage points since 2017. So confidence in the police is very great. Of course there's a lot to do. However, if one claims that the police do not care about traffic offences or that confidence in the police is generally low, it is simply wrong. Thomas Morell discusses the survey carried out by the haulage companies. I've been looking at it. There are 10,000 haulage companies in Sweden. 4,500 of them were sent to this survey. 738 responded. So it was a response rate of 15%. My question is: what conclusions can you draw from this survey when you have such a low response rate? Not much, I'd say. I think that Thomas Morell should take note of all the positive things that are now happening in the police force, with the increased controls, the increased opportunities for access to illegal cabotage traffic, the high level of confidence and also growth. We've set the target of 10,000 more police employees. We have about 7,000 so far. Of them, a little over 1,800 are police officers. This is because, at the beginning, civil servants are added; they are already trained, while it takes two and a half years to train a police officer. Now we have more in police training than we've ever had before. We currently have over 3,000 who are in training. We have new places of education. Since old we have Stockholm, Umeå and Växjö. During our time we have added police training in Malmö and Borås. It is this expansion and expansion that now means that six months for six months we will see new hills of police coming out in police operations and can make a positive and good contribution. I see that one will be able to live up to the goal that has been set, and I think that is very good. Again, the police are doing a very good job on the roads, and we will be able to reinforce it further.
i-40e824a931dd3918-284	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. After all, the police were involved in this survey together with Sweden's Åkeri company and Alarmtjänst. The low response rate may be due to the fact that people do not feel the confidence they should have in these matters. It is not the public that has been asked. The question has been asked about the haulage companies, the companies which are ultimately involved in the problem of the criminals who are moving on the roads. Every day they are subjected to diesel theft, car parts are removed, whole cars are taken and burglaries are made both in premises and in vehicles. They do not get the response they should be given, and this may be because the police are overcrowded with a lot of other problems such as shootings and such. I did not ask the question of public confidence in the police, but I asked the question on the basis of the experience of road haulage companies, and it is road haulage companies that have responded to the survey. It would have been good if the government had focused on it instead. If we go into cabotage, it sounds great that the number of cases has increased by 450 percent compared to 2016. It's always possible to trix with percentages. It's not hard. There were 61 cases in 2016. It went up to 275 for 2020. So far this year, I think it's 280. Of course, it is good to get to those who drive unauthorized cabotage in Sweden. I won't argue with that. But the picture shows so clearly that this is a bigger problem than the figures in the report. If we had enough people on the road, we would have had far more violations of the cabotage rules. What is reported is Region South, which accounts for more than half. Then you should know that the gang that works in Helsingborg are the sharpest we have in Sweden, together with the western ridges. There are even instructions in the foreign cars to drive other roads past their control areas. Why? Because if they're stopped, they'll be reported. There is knowledge and there are the sharpest officials when it comes to carrying out checks on heavy traffic. I would say that every car they get into Helsingborg or Västerås is being called into the seams. No one gets through there without being reported if something's wrong. What if we had more such units in Sweden! Then we would have gotten to the problem of unauthorized cabotage. In a whole year, it's 280 reports. That's not much given how many transports take place every day. As one cop says, it's like fishing in an aquarium. That's how big the problem is. The government has not performed in this regard. There have been no more control officers. I talk to my old colleagues almost daily, who say that people who retire or end for other reasons go home on a daily basis. The number of car inspectors is at a decently stable level, about 73 over time. However, the number of heavy-duty traffic police officers, who have the right to control heavy-duty vehicles, is only 120 in external service. There's more on the paper, but out on the road, there's no more. So we have a significant deficit.
i-40e824a931dd3918-293	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the argument has to go some way with what it actually looks like when it comes to statistics and control activities, for example. Thomas Morell claims the police don't care about this. At the same time, it appears that the number of checks has increased significantly both on commercial vehicles and on dangerous goods. The number of fines imposed is increasing. On point after point, the police deliver more checks. In addition, more car inspectors have been recruited, just to address another statistical point. The argument doesn't make sense. If Morell claims that the police don't care about these crimes, but at the same time the controls are increasing as strongly as they have, then it doesn't make sense. Thomas Morell claims that confidence in the police is low. I say that public confidence is record high. Then he says that the trust of the haulage companies is really low. What's he building it on? Well, a survey that 738 out of 10,000 road haulage companies have responded to. The police may have been involved in conducting the survey, but it doesn't matter much for the reliability of it or what conclusions you can draw from it. If you have a 15% response rate, you can't draw any major conclusions from it, I say. Then, of course, we have problems with cabotage, black transport, and we continue to have problems with cabotage. There, measures are taken to increase controls. More are also being recruited to cope with them. There are other problems as well. Thomas Morell talks about theft of fuel and diesel. It is of course a problem, but at the same time I see that the number of reported thefts of fuel has been more than halved since 2014. Thefts of diesel have also halved since 2014. That must also be taken to heart. We'll continue to bet on the police. The police now have more employees than ever. There are more cops than ever. More people attend the trainings than ever. What we have done in recent years with new training places and increased recruitment opportunities is also important. Since 2015, we have also re-recruited 1,200 police officers who have left the force but have since come back and want to work in the police again. One in four police officers who have left the force since 2015 have chosen to return to the police. More are being trained, fewer are quitting and more are returning to the police. You also have to see this when you look at the police business as a whole. Madam President, I would like The police will continue to step up their efforts against all forms of crime, including this type of crime, which can sometimes be linked to organised crime, not least in some EU countries, which are engaged in this in order to make big money. With their new resources and with their new employees, you will be able to do an even better job on the road. Don't black out the police by trying to make it that you don't care about these crimes, because you actually do.
i-40e824a931dd3918-302	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is certainly no wonder that you are not getting anything done, because you cannot even read the statistics to make it understandable. If you look at that survey, because it still has to be taken on board, and read the full report, you can see that a lot of people don't even report diesel thefts because they don't think it makes sense. Then we cannot refer to fewer reported crimes in the form of diesel theft, because that is because there is no report. You need to get out on the field and take part in the game. You can't sit in the stands all the time. Come on! We must tackle this problem. Then you cannot stand in this Chamber and make a lot of statements that have no real background. I've been working for 12 years in the traffic department. On the unit where I worked, we were nine men on three lucky teams who were out on the road every day of the week. Today there are five in total. How on earth are they gonna do this job? Get in the game and take part! I will read what is written in one of the major newspapers: In the meantime, I sit down and wait for the next disaster, namely what will come out of the investigation of more effective checks on the road. Thus the investigation as Sweden's ruling politicians for a long time has used as a shield to defend themselves against other difficult issues from Proffs on the theme of order and order of our roads. ..................................................... Come out on the track and play the game!
i-40e824a931dd3918-309	Madam President, I would like We've been on the track for a long time. That is why we are expanding the police as we do: 10 000 more employees from 2016 to 2024, more training places and more controls, if we are talking about professional traffic and work there. That's exactly what I'm telling you. If Thomas Morell's picture is that the police don't care about this, don't set aside resources and ignore it, how have inspections on commercial vehicles increased by over 30 percent since 2018? How have controls on dangerous goods increased by 17 per cent since 2018? How have the sanctions imposed increased by 450 per cent since 2016? These are signs that the police in recent years have really given priority to the crimes. I say here, in this debate, that we intend to ensure that the priorities of the crimes continue. Thomas Morell says that 738 out of 10,000 companies who have responded to a survey are dissatisfied – at least some of them. I say that no conclusions can be drawn from this because a response rate of 15% is far too low. We will, of course, continue to expand the police, ensure that they continue to fight crime and ensure that there are better tools to get to the crime. We are now raising sanctions. Now it becomes more expensive for those who drive the illegal transports. Every time we come up with them, they get a higher fine. Don't black out the police's work in this area. Here the police have really stepped up in recent years, and they will continue to do so in the coming years.
i-40e824a931dd3918-314	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to ensure that the target of the number of police officers by 2024 is achieved. She has also asked what measures I and the government have taken so far to achieve the objective of extra police officers and what is the reason why the target will be difficult to achieve. She has also asked what special efforts are being made urgently to increase the number of police officers in the gang criminally vulnerable Stockholm. The fact that more police officers can fight crime and increase security throughout the country is a priority issue for the government. In order to reduce crime and increase security in Sweden, the government is carrying out a historic investment in the Police Authority. This means that the number of employees will increase by 10,000 by 2024 compared to the beginning of 2016. At the turn of the year, the growth amounted to more than 7,000 employees. In order to finance the initiative, the funding has been increased considerably. To ensure the increase in the number of police employees, the government has decided to start police training at two new universities, in Malmö and Borås. Police training is now available in five locations, and several of them also offer distance training. In addition, the government has initiated a new accelerated admission process to police training. This has had an effect. This year there are more police officers than ever before in Sweden. The number admitted to police training has more than doubled since 2010, and there is still high search pressure. In addition, a new road to the police profession has been introduced. By allowing already employed specialists to undergo police training, these people have skills development, the employer can use the employees more flexibly and the number of police officers increases. My picture is that the Police Authority is an attractive employer because the number of police officers is increasing, fewer and fewer stop and many of the police officers who have stopped have been reinstated. This makes it possible to achieve the goal and ensures the long-term sustainable supply of police personnel throughout the country. A couple of weeks ago, 707 new police officers were examined from police training, which is a welcome addition to the Swedish police force. The police trail is also being filled in the police region of Stockholm, where 205 new police officers were hired on 22 November. Police growth follows a plan, and it is from this year on that we will see ever larger hills of new police officers. In the short perspective, the Police Authority is carrying out a staff reinforcement to the police region of Stockholm, among other things to strengthen investigations into the recent serious crimes. In the long term, the Swedish Police Authority is working to get more Stockholm-based people to apply for police training, and one measure is to increase the number of available places in police training at Södertörn University in January. At the same time, conditions have improved as the police's average basic salary has increased by SEK 6 000 per month since 2015. The average basic salary for all police officers is currently 35 800 SEK a month. Another example is that the remuneration for work at evenings and weekends has been increased. In recent wage audits, the Parties have agreed to give priority to police officers in external service and in particular to those working in vulnerable areas. The Police Authority has noted that it has produced the intended effect as the turnover of external police personnel has decreased. The Government and the Police Authority have taken several measures to improve conditions and to ensure the working environment, but the government continues to follow developments closely.
i-40e824a931dd3918-323	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The question is how could you let it go so far? There are so few police officers and so much more gang crime in Sweden, not least in Stockholm. Haninge, from whom I come, is the second worst victim in the whole country when it comes to robberies against young people. I am concerned, Madam President. There are always shootings and other events. Not only am I worried, but many feel insecure. Children are exposed by other children. They lose jackets and phones. They are victims of crime both morning and evening, on their way to school and on their way home from school. And that makes them afraid to go out again. They sleep poorly and feel really bad on the whole. Madam President, I would like We can't be like this. We need to get Sweden and Stockholm in order now. We need to feel safe where we live, when we go to and from our jobs and to and from our schools. The gang criminality needs to be suppressed now. How could it have gone so far? The number of reported robberies against persons under the age of 18 has more than doubled in Sweden during the period 2015– 2019. Suspects are mainly 15 - 20 years old. Even the self-reported exposure to robbery has increased sharply among young people. An alarming development can be seen in the case of girls subjected to robbery in the Stockholm area. They're afraid to go home from the movies, even though they go together. They are afraid to go home from practice at night, and they are afraid to walk to and from their friends. The police have decreased in number. The minister beats his chest and says there have been more policemen, but there have also been more residents. If you take out the number of police officers on the number of inhabitants, it's not that big a number to shout about. Crime is Sweden's most acute social problem right now. Serious organized crime controls certain areas of Sweden with an iron hand. Crime Prevention Council statistics show that Sweden is at its top when it comes to deadly gun violence. We're talking about historical investments in the police. It is still a huge turn for Sweden that the M-KD-SD budget went through so that there will be more investment in increased police salaries, more money in total to the Police Authority, a targeted investment on more surveillance cameras and on strengthened technical capabilities of the police in the form of better tools, technology and more employees to improve the work against crime. But such things take time. It is also important to follow them up so that they become what you have in mind. The various actions the Minister talks about sound fine, but the Minister does not really answer my question, Madam President, about how the Minister intends to ensure that the target of the number of police officers by 2024 is achieved. It is now reported that criminal gangs from Mälardalen are taking over the drug market in Sundsvall and Medelpad. Drugs are sold through Snapchat and Tiktok and other social media. It brings violence and more weapons, and younger and younger people are being exploited in the drug trade. The police say that they see an increasing number of young people drawn into the criminal environment, far below the age range — about 12 years old. We can't have this. It must be possible to use camera surveillance and interception of children under the age of 15 suspected of serious crime. Gangs recruit 10 – 13-year-olds. They bring guns and other things to school. We need tools to stop crime and put in support measures to prevent gang crime from getting stuck. It's a matter of turning over every stone.
i-40e824a931dd3918-334	Madam President, I would like I am interfering in the debate because the police are close to my heart. We discussed just now the actual increase in the number of police officers, and that is mainly civil servants. There will be more policemen out, yet they are still too few to replenish enough. As Alexandra Anstrell has said here, crime has grown stronger and society must counter this. Society must be stronger than criminals. If you look at what is happening around our society, you can see that parallel societies are created with alternative justice. Alternative justice means that it is someone other than the Swedish state that is police, prosecutor, court and in some cases even executioner. It is not the Swedish state, Swedish law or Swedish judicial system that deals with this, but other actors who override our legal system and are both police and prosecutors, court and enforcement. The shootings that take place around the country, often with deaths, are pure executions. It's something that comes from the criminal gangs and their settlements. It may be love affairs that get out of hand or drugs or anything, but it's really an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Here, the rule of law has backed up in some areas. Gothenburg, for example, has established roadblocks around vulnerable areas. Why do you do that? Because you want to know who's moving in there. You simply stop vehicles to see who's in them. It's not the police who do it. It's the criminals. They stop cars to see who's sitting in so they can see who's in the area and possibly take action if there's the wrong people in the car. In a legal society, it is the state that controls, no one else. The police must be given sufficient resources here. It sounds good when the Government stands here and speaks, but the Expressen from 2 November this year reads that every third – 36 percent, i.e. just over a third – of the union-affiliated police are actively looking for jobs that are not in the police department. This is an alarming development. It doesn't sound like that when you listen to the government. Why is that? Something else is wrong. It could be bad pay. It may also be that the police have a work situation that is inhumane. You're in an environment, in an area, where you're constantly under the influence of threats. Cops aren't more than people, either. If you are threatened, if there may even be threats to the family, you are no more than human. Then the question is whether it is worth the price or whether you should do something else in life. I know what that means, because I was personally exposed to threats when I was working in the police. I had colleagues rounding around my place. It's not a big shot to have it that way. You don't even dare go to business and have your family with you without keeping track of what's behind your back. I can understand the police who opt out of the profession. I'm not surprised.
i-40e824a931dd3918-342	Madam President, I would like I will begin with Alexandra Anstrell's question as to how things have gone so far. Yes, it depends, among other things, on how you in the Moderates dealt with this issue during the time when you ruled Sweden. After all, the truth is that you showed the police issues an extremely weary interest. You cut police training by 90% in two years to finance your tax cuts. Then you trained far too few policemen – only 600 – 700 per year. At the same time, we know that about 400 – 500 retire each year. Then you understand that it is a much too low level. What we did when we took office in 2014 was that we scaled up police training and did it heavily. We started new educations. There are some things the Moderates have never done and never can do. First of all, you can't do the jobs. Secondly, you'll never make it through public finances. Thirdly, you will never be able to start any new police training. It is Social Democrats who have started all the new police training courses in Sweden. It was we who started in Växjö a little over 20 years ago. It was we who started in Umeå, also 20 years ago. It was in Laila Freivald's time as Minister of Justice. It was we who started in Malmö the other year, and it was we who started in Borås now. It is we who are responsible for the expansion of the police, the investment in the police and the possibility for the police to grow in the way that is happening. Now we are training almost three times as many police officers as you in the Moderates did in your time, when you were running the Justice Department. After all, it shows what this is really about. It's easy to stand in opposition and talk. But then when you sit in the department and control, well, then it turns out that you do nothing. Thomas Morell talks about the working conditions of the police. That's right, I think. But I also think it should be borne in mind that for the fourth year in a row we have a situation where fewer people end up with the police, that is, fewer people are looking away from the police. There are also more who return to the police. I mentioned in an earlier line that 25 % of those who left the police from 2015 have returned to the police. 1,200 we've re-recruited. So we're training more people. Fewer stop, and more return. I think you should have that picture too. We set the target of 10,000 more employees in the police until 2024. We'll get there. We've already increased by 7,000. We will manage the other 3 000 by 2024 by continuing to train more people, by improving working conditions and by developing training opportunities. In my interpellation response, I mentioned functional training. It is therefore a further training of those who are already civil employees in the police that gives them the opportunity to train for a year and then be able to gain the authority of police officers and become police officers – of course with the same requirements as everyone else in the police force. This provides an additional opportunity for those who are already employed by the police to continue their training and become police officers. Of course, this is a major challenge. I do not think there is any other authority that has v u x in t with 30% in just seven years. It is a huge challenge and a high target that we set for the police a few years ago, but I am sure we will be able to achieve that. But it requires, as I said, that we continue to train more people, develop working conditions and ensure that it becomes a good workplace and improves the opportunities for people to return to the corps.
i-40e824a931dd3918-354	Madam President, I would like The Minister talks about being convinced that the goal will be achieved. That sounds good, but I'm still asking how to make sure it really is. We have more cops than ever, but we also have more criminals than ever. We have more inhabitants than ever. Eurostat has statistics showing that Sweden has the third worst police density in the EU. Eight years, you know, it's almost a full schooling for the children who today are the most vulnerable to juvenile robbery. For almost eight years the country has been led and the minister has been responsible here. Then I think it is strange that one tries to blame the Moderates, who are therefore in opposition. Eight years, as I said, is almost a full schooling for those who are most vulnerable. It is almost the case, Madam President, that we are booming. Is the Police Authority an attractive employer? Yes, it is absolutely too many. But for a lot of people, it is also, as Thomas Morell was into, an extremely vulnerable profession. You may not always get the help you need. You can also look at the police wages. I myself have a little brother who has worked as a police officer but who quit because he got a huge increase in salary when he moved on to work in the municipality as an alcohol and tobacco handler. There was a huge difference in pay. There are more people attending the training, and I think that is of course great. We'll have more cops who can help curb the gang crime that spreads. It has spread for quite a long time and gained quite a strong grip in Haninge, in Stockholm, in Sweden. This is problematic. It is actually one of the most important issues right now, when our children are afraid to go to and from school. You don't dare go to school in the morning because you're afraid to get rid of your jacket. So it's kids who go by bus to school without a jacket because they're afraid of being robbed. We can't have this. The fact that policemen are going to school now feels great. But it takes time to get them out to work, to get them out to Jordbro, so that they can help curb gang crime. It takes time to get experienced police officers. The number of juvenile robberies, which I used to deal with, has increased throughout the country. Brå's report shows that most of them are under 18. Mr Haninge, from whom I come, is the second worst in the whole country, Madam President. It doesn't look like much fun at all in the Stockholm area. We cannot be like this, Madam President. We have a crime that is Sweden's most acute social problem. Then you need to take hold of it. You can't blame yourself on something that happened eight years ago. I wonder why it's taken so long. Eight years is almost a full schooling. And how does the minister ensure that we actually reach the target of numbers of police officers? And will the police have a better working environment?
i-40e824a931dd3918-365	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer earlier, Minister. As far as criminality is concerned, criminals are keeping their pace in certain areas of Sweden. It is they who govern, not society, the state or our judicial system. That's where the state has to face up. Here the government is not really on track. Sure, you're going to train more cops, and you're going to put more civilian employees in the police. But is this enough? Obviously not – we have little flattering statistics, where we are the worst country in Europe in terms of shootings. Even children are shot and murdered in this country. It's hair traveler. Then the rule of law must put its foot down and hold the stick. You shouldn't let others do that. When Encrochat was broken, it turned out that we get ten times more drugs in Sweden than we thought, often smuggled in heavy vehicles. Then we are back to the fact that we do not have enough controls, either at customs or on the road. There are huge amounts of drugs coming in, and then there are battles between the criminal gangs and we get shootings and executions on the open street. It's time to switch up now so we face this and get society to hold on to the takpin. I would therefore like to wish the President, the employees of the Parliament Administration, the Government and my colleagues a really happy Christmas and a happy new year. I'll see you in this Chamber for new fights next year.
i-40e824a931dd3918-370	Madam President, I would like The reason I mention how the Moderates have acted in government is that I want to show this: It is not good enough to stand in opposition and talk about one or the other or the other and then, once you sit in the Ministry of Justice, do the opposite. This cuts police training by 90 percent in two years, because the money has run out in the treasury. The tax has been reduced by 140 billion, and suddenly the money is over. Then you take it from the police-- that's what the Moderates did when you were in the Justice Department. But you did not only do so, but you also abolished military service, which in turn went out over Pliktverket. The examination was cut down, we saw, and it is they who make the trials of them who are going into police training. We also met this when we took office in 2014: a situation where we not only needed to scale up the police training itself and start new police trainings, but also had to scale up Pliktverket and hire a lot more psychologists there in order to do the tests. Only this became a bottleneck. You should think about it when you cut back the way the Moderates did, because it has long-term consequences for the whole business. Now we are in a situation where we have again reached the levels where we are to lie. We're talking about the number of cops per capita. The fact is that from this year and next year when it comes to the number of police per capita, i.e. per inhabitant in Sweden, we will be higher than any previous year when measured. You have to go back to 2006 when it comes to police per capita. So not only the number of policemen is now increasing, but also the number of police per inhabitant, as a result of new hills now going out. As I said, we have about 3,000 in education at the moment. When you are spoken to in the right-wing parties, you really have only one answer to this question, namely to increase the number of police officers and to work with the penalties. I'm saying we need to get the police to grow, work on the penalties and continue to expand the surveillance. We now have 450 cameras set up, and thousands more cameras are coming out as uniform cameras on the police – a major technology venture. We need to work on this: the repressive elements. But we also need to work with the preventive elements, and they are not at all in the right-wing worldview – quite the opposite. When I say that we have to invest in school, social services and leisure activities in order to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs, I often meet only with some kind of mockery: that doesn't matter. I would urge the right-wing parties to reconsider this too. It doesn't matter how many we're caged– and we're actually caged in record numbers now; I think we've got 7 000 prisoners – if at the same time, at the next stage, there's additional young people standing in line who are prepared to step into crime. Yet every time you have the opportunity to control the budget, the right cuts down on school, social services and leisure activities in the affected areas. In order for us to do this, Madam President – and I think we will – we need to fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. This should also be understood by the right-wing parties.
i-40e824a931dd3918-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's a little strange to hear the minister stand and talk about the Moderates not going for school and social services; that's exactly what we're doing. I agree with the Minister that it is important to work on preventive measures. I think most people agree with this – that you can also invest in preventing and discovering things on time. I am thinking not least of the honour-related violence and oppression that is spreading. We can see that this is increasing in my municipality of residence Haninge, in Stockholm and throughout Sweden. If you look at the statistics for Origo, a resource centre against honour-related oppression and violence that we have here in Stockholm County, you can see that the number of vulnerable young people who get there is increasing. Of course, they need help, both preventively and once that happens. We have another group, Madam President, which is important to mention in this context; it is our entrepreneurs. We have entrepreneurs who are afraid of the growing gang crime. There is a risk of entrepreneurs fleeing the country – several have already moved. We have heard entrepreneurs tell us about how criminals are trying to get into business. An entrepreneur suffered a computer breach. A criminal group then threatened to leak the information about the entrepreneur did not start a new company and sat on the board together with them. The entrepreneur then chose to leave the country. Another entrepreneur, a restaurateur whom I met not long ago, was also afraid. You don't use watches anymore, you take different ways to work and you don't have expensive cars. How could this happen? The Minister blames the Moderates, but I claim that the Minister has still had eight years to get more police officers to Haninge, Stockholm and Sweden. It hasn't happened yet.
i-40e824a931dd3918-382	Madam President, I would like So we now have a record number of police officers. It is a result of the training efforts we have made and of fewer leaving the corps and more returning to it, as a result of the work we have done. We now also have more police per capita, per inhabitant, than we have had in the past. From this year and next year we will pass the previous peak in 2010 and have more police per capita than we have had in modern times. This is because all the 3 000 police officers who are now in the education system are going out. So we are investing in police and police training in a way that no government, I say, has done before. This is to be contrasted with the last time the Moderates had a say in the Justice Department, when they cut down on police training by 90 percent in two years. It may be that Alexandra Anstrell dislikes that I raise this, but I do it only to make it clear to the public that sometimes some politicians can stand here when they are in opposition and say one thing, and then, once they come to power, it becomes quite different and they do the opposite. That is the experience we have of the Moderates in government, unfortunately. Then Alexandra Anstrell says that the Moderates have decided to invest in school and social services. No, you don't. It's the other way around. As soon as you have the opportunity to get budgets through this House, that is the lines you delete first. Then it is school, social services and leisure activities in the vulnerable areas that you delete first. It's the same in the municipalities. It's the same thing there. Other things may always take precedence over investments in school, social services and fritis. Now that the municipalities have more money than ever before – they had 50 billion in surplus last year – they must also ensure that they respond to the state's efforts, so that we not only have strengthened repressive measures but also strengthened preventive measures.
i-40e824a931dd3918-388	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen Sweden's emergency preparedness in the future, and to ensure that crisis preparedness is equal in all of Sweden's 290 municipalities. The municipalities have a very important role in Sweden's overall preparedness. They have many and extensive tasks in public welfare and, in accordance with the principle of responsibility, are also responsible for their activities in the event of a crisis. During the pandemic, the issue of preparedness for access to critical goods has been raised, in particular the storage of personal protective equipment by municipalities and regions. In order to strengthen Sweden's ability to maintain the necessary livelihood in peacetime crisis situations, increased preparedness and extreme war, the Government has set up an investigation that will, among other things, propose a function responsible for national coordination of security of supply and how security of supply is to be financed. The Government also intends to set up a cross-sectoral Business Council with the aim of strengthening the private-public collaboration that is a prerequisite for, among other things, security of supply to function. The risk of natural disasters increases with a change in the itch of food. K ommunerna plays a central role in prevention. In order to strengthen this work, the Government will, as of 2022, invest half a billion SEK to finance compensation to municipalities for measures taken. The Swedish Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority, MSB, with the support of the Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute, SMHI, and the State Geotechnical Institute, SGI, distributes the contributions. Funds for emergency preparedness and civil defence are also allocated to municipalities on the basis of the tasks they have under the Act on the measures of municipalities and regions prior to and in the event of extraordinary events in peacetime and increased preparedness. For 2020, more than SEK 420 million was allocated to municipalities for the tasks regulated by this Act. The distribution of these funds is regulated by agreements between the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and MSB. The municipalities can also apply for grants from MSB for measures in the technical infrastructure that contribute to increasing the management capacity of the municipality. Examples of this are measures to create redundancy for telephone in and data, spare power stations, extinguishing equipment and shell protection. In 2020, more than SEK 42 million were allocated in grants to municipalities for this purpose. Our emergency preparedness system is fundamentally robust. However, evaluations show that our preparedness must continue to develop. I will work to continue to strengthen Sweden's crisis preparedness, and in this work it is necessary to learn from accumulated experiences from previous crises.
i-40e824a931dd3918-394	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is exciting to have these issues debated with the Minister now. The world is more uncertain and anxious than in a long time, and unpredictability is increasing. The importance of security of supply in the event of crisis or war is something that cannot be stressed enough. We have seen this, not least, during the current pandemic. There is indeed a need for comprehensive and comprehensive reforms to strengthen civil preparedness in a number of areas such as responsibility, management and coordination, but also in areas such as crisis legislation, business interaction and stockpiling. The ecosystem has revealed a number of shortcomings in municipal emergency preparedness for, for example, storms, pandemics, heat waves and forest fires. This is serious given the growing challenges of crisis preparedness in the future. Crisis preparedness is also an important starting point for civil defence – an extremely important part of total defence. The problems are particularly significant in smaller municipalities, where the state compensation is not sufficient for a full-time service, for example, for a contingency coordinator. But it is also a question of, for example, the lack of back-up power in sensitive activities such as retirement homes and the fact that there are too few exercises. Among other things, SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, says that the money the municipalities receive from the state for emergency preparedness is not enough. Madam President, I would like Appropriations 2:4 Crisis preparedness is one of the government's main instruments for strengthening society's crisis preparedness and civil defence. Every year, the state allocates approximately half a billion SEK to government projects to strengthen crisis preparedness and civil defence. Earlier this year we received a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that clearly shows a risk that project grants are used for ordinary operations instead of projects and therefore will not be the reinforcement that was intended. The report shows that MSB, which distributes the project funds, also allocates funds to itself. Project grants therefore risk not being the intended reinforcement of emergency preparedness. I wonder: does the Minister intend to change this so that it becomes clearer that an authority cannot grant itself a project grant? The review also shows that the problems generally associated with project management, such as the fact that there are not always resources to manage or manage the results of the projects when they are complete, are exacerbated when the project funds form a large part of the overall funding of the Authority. This risks leading to a lack of the intended impact of the projects. The report also notes that project grants in the part paid to the county administrative boards' coherent projects are used for activities for which the government has explicitly stated that the grant should not be used. We received a lot of recommendations. I am pleased that the Riksdag supported the Moderates' proposal for an independent investigation of this in order to see how it can be a better instrument. For us moderates, it is clear that a proposal needs to be made for a sustainable financing model for civil preparedness based on conditions, costs and needs.
i-40e824a931dd3918-405	Madam President, I would like Like what has happened in police policy and criminal policy, we have also changed the policy in Sweden on this point. There was a time when moderate ministers said that the defense was a special interest and not something to invest in. We even had a moderate Minister of Defence who had to resign because of the attitude of the then moderate-led government. During all these years nothing happened in practice either in military defence or in civil defence. It was not bothered that civil defence had long been in great need. Let's do it. At the moment, the greatest reconstruction of civil defence and preparedness is taking place in modern times. We spend very large sums of money on the state authorities, on NGOs and on the municipalities in order to make efforts on civil preparedness and civil defence. In total, when the whole development is completed in 2025, it will amount to 4.2 billion. It's a staircase: At the bottom we had 400 million from 2018 – now from 2021 it's 1.4 billion, 2022 it's 1.9 billion, 2023 it's 2.9 billion, 2024 it's 3.4 billion and from 2025 it's 4.2 billion. These funds are allocated to government authorities, municipalities, NGOs and many more to strengthen civilian preparedness. My attitude must still be that I trust the authorities to ensure that the money is put in the right place. I'll take that as a starting point. Should there be a problem with that, we will have to have a special examination of it, but I still have to trust that the authorities who receive the money know what they are doing. Then there are other funds that go specifically to the municipalities. In my interpellation response, I mentioned the special allocation of half a billion starting in 2022 to reinforce preparedness for possible natural disasters that may result from a change in the climate. So that's another half a billion from 2022. Then we have the grant of SEK 420 million for municipalities for extraordinary events in peacetime and for increased preparedness. So that's another 420 million. All in all, therefore, there is a very large amount of money, and I do not believe that there is any government that has invested more in civilian preparedness and defence than we are doing at the moment. But I would also like to say that the municipalities themselves also have a responsibility. After all, the principle of responsibility applies. One cannot assume that the state will pay exactly everything that has to do with this. The municipalities have a basic responsibility. The municipalities must therefore also be involved in paying for this, especially in view of the fact that last year the local government sector went by 50 billion in surplus. The municipalities have never had as much money at their disposal as they have at the moment. Then we must also be able to demand, I think, that the municipalities see that there is a great need and that they invest in this. If this scale-up is to work well, the municipality and the state must go hand in hand, and one must be prepared to contribute in both parts. You can't expect the government to take all the costs. The municipalities and municipal political leaders must also feel responsible for their residents and ensure that the necessary efforts are made. And, as I said, there is a total of 50 billion at their disposal. It should then be possible to use some of that money for this.
i-40e824a931dd3918-414	Madam President, I would like I am thinking of which parties were involved in disarming Sweden's defence. There I think the Minister should be a little more careful. I also believe that we have a lot of talented municipal board chairmen around Sweden who take their responsibility, but they do not actually get the full opportunities from the government. The Minister needs to assume his responsibilities there. Sweden should be well equipped to face future crises, whether they are pandemics, supply chain disruptions or climate-related events such as forest fires and floods. We are not really there today, Madam President. Good emergency preparedness also lays the foundation for civil defence. The demands of war must be dealt with. If Sweden is able to deal with the demands that the war can make on Sweden, we are of course also better equipped when the crisis comes. But then one might wonder when the government will begin to take the civilian responsibility, that part of the total defense, seriously. I am pleased that the Minister highlights the Enterprise Council of the National Defence in his speech. Business is of central importance for Sweden's total defence. I hope that covid-19 now made it fully visible to everyone in Sweden that Sweden is in need of a national business council. The only problem is that during this parliamentary term it has been investigated and investigated and investigated that you will never get to grips with it, even though the investigations indicate that you need a business council for total defence. Our whole society depends on goods and services that come from the business world. A large part of our socially important activities are carried out by private actors. These include, for example, energy supply, food supply, transport, health care and a great deal of municipal services. Business, ranging from multinational companies to small companies that mainly operate locally, is of central importance for Sweden's total defence. This means that resources owned by private operators are also necessary to meet the needs of the total defence. In its report Resistance already 2015, the Defence Committee stated that a National Business Council should be set up with the aim of establishing long-term collaboration between public and private actors at central, regional and local levels – this as a complement to the various forums that currently exist, for example through industry organisations. But as I said, during the term of office we have seen an investigation after an investigation that indicates that this would be a good thing, but nothing happens. In fact, Madam President, what is the problem? Since all parties have supported the content of the Swedish Defence Committee's 2015 report, this could already be up and running now. But when will that happen, Minister? You've got to ask that anyway. The Moderates want even more. We want to see proactive work where, for example, conversion agreements are signed with Swedish companies, so that they can change their production to produce socially important goods in a crisis situation. We've already seen it. This may be the case, for example, when industry makes human resources and competences available to the public. During the pandemic, we have also seen examples of this when Scania lent procurement and logistics experts to Karolinska University Hospital to help procure protective equipment. Is there a need for a review of laws and rules governing the possibility of signing agreements with the business community? Is that something that the Minister could consider working on and supporting?
i-40e824a931dd3918-426	Madam President, I would like Yeah, I'm sure we can. I just want to say that this is a classic example of an interpellation debate. The interpellant asks me a number of questions to which she then answers. When she cannot pass on that debate, because she has received an answer, she raises something quite different. Interpellation issues are about Sweden's future crisis preparedness and how crisis preparedness will be equivalent in all of Sweden's 290 municipalities. I reply to that and say that we are now making a historic commitment to civil defence – it is in fact the largest in modern times. There are 4.2 billion SEK going out in a stairway ahead, fully expanded to 2025. In addition, it is another half a billion SEK for municipalities to prevent natural disasters in connection with climate change – it will already be next year. It is another SEK 420 million for extraordinary events in peacetime and increased preparedness. It is therefore an enormous amount of money from the state that goes out to the local government sector in order to be able to fulfil that task. Put on top of that the local government sector today has more money than ever, 50 billion in surplus! I'd say Alexandra Anstrell got those answers. Now that she has them, she says: Yes, but what about the Business Council? Shouldn't it start? Then I'll say, yes, it will. That's why we write it in the interpellation response itself. We intend to do this, and of course we intend to do so as soon as possible. We will have to come back to what tasks we will then have in this and how that work will proceed. Of course, it will be an important part of further work. But it's somehow symptomatic. When you go out and criticise the government for doing too little for civilian preparedness, the criticism eventually melts down to one point, namely whether or not we should have a business council. Perhaps it shows that the objections to our policy are not so terribly strong.
i-40e824a931dd3918-432	Madam President, I would like I can promise the Minister that there can be many interpellations on these issues, because these are issues that we moderates drive and can. More of the same does not solve the problem of equivalence. I argue that I have not been given an answer on how to ensure that it is equal in the municipalities. It is clear that today it is not equal. Haninge has over 90 000 inhabitants. Åre has 10,000 inhabitants. There are, of course, very different situations in terms of emergency preparedness. In fact, I am not getting an answer from the Minister here. How will the Minister ensure that it is equal? I am thinking of such a thing as drinking water supply. Water is a prerequisite for a good food supply in Sweden. The Finnish Food Safety Authority is responsible for national coordination in relation to contingency planning for drinking water supply, but the municipalities are responsible for the supply of drinking water. Some are far ahead in various projects – I am thinking, for example, of the desalination plant on Öland. Others have a lot longer to go. Ultimately, problems with the supply of drinking water can lead to major crises and fall under both regional and national responsibility. Today's problem of water scarcity demonstrates the need for both short-term and temporary and long-term water-depleting measures. The efforts made by the Minister to provide additional funds for 2022 do not apply to drought. In order for municipalities to ensure access to drinking water in case of increased preparedness, they need better planning and logistics for the supply of drinking water. There is a need for improvement here. Does the Minister not agree that equivalence needs to be ensured, so as to obtain a national analysis of the situation and the planning of municipalities for the future?
i-40e824a931dd3918-440	Madam President, I would like I certainly do. That is why we have the dedicated government money for the local government sector. This is to try, among other things, to ensure that there is greater equivalence. But Alexandra Anstrell here addresses Haninge and asks: How will Haninge be able to cope with this? It was enough with a simple googling to see that Haninge went with 235 million in surplus last year – 235 million. So my question is, can Haninge not use some of this money for civilian preparedness, for the benefit of his locals? I think so. This is how it looks in the municipality after the municipality. If you look at their economy, you can see that almost every one of them has very large surpluses now. My message is that we are going in with huge sums of money from the state, a total of 4.2 billion, to voluntary organisations, municipalities and state authorities in steps up to 2025, for this historic investment in civil defence. However, the local government sector must also do its part and use some of the large sums they have in surplus for this. In fact, I think that is a reasonable starting point. If you have a surplus of 235 million in a municipality, you can at least set aside a little of it for these purposes. We will continue to expand civil defence and pursue the great effort. With regard to the second part – a business council – we will, of course, set it up as well.
i-40e824a931dd3918-444	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative for a road user charge for heavy goods transport. The toll levied on heavy goods vehicles in Sweden is based on the Eurovignette Directive. The Eurovignette Directive is being amended. On 16 June this year, a preliminary political agreement was reached between the Council and the European Parliament on amendments to the Eurovignette Directive. On 9 November, the Council adopted its position at first reading. What remains now is for the directive to be adopted by the European Parliament. The Directive will set out the conditions for the design of future time- and distance-based taxation. Once the directive has been adopted, the government will start work on transposing it into Swedish law. As Jens Holm mentions, the investigation is also ongoing New environmental management system for road freight transport. The purpose of the study is to examine various issues concerning the design of a new environmental management system as an alternative to the Eurovignette fee currently paid for heavy goods vehicles. A new system can contribute, among other things, to the achievement of environmental and climate objectives and to improved enforcement of professional traffic. Once the report has been submitted, a preparation will follow in the Government Office.
i-40e824a931dd3918-447	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mikael Damberg for the answer to my interpellation. We know that we are in a climate crisis. Emissions must be reduced rapidly to prevent climate change that becomes uncontrollable and directly dangerous, not least for the sake of our children and grandchildren. Emissions from the transport sector account for one third of Sweden's emissions. Heavy transport is an important contributor to the large emission mass. Unfortunately, we see that emissions in the transport sector, particularly heavy transport, are not reduced to the extent that they would have to do. We aim to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. It's not happening today. Reducing emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030 requires emission reductions of approximately 8 to 9 percentage points each year. We can also correct something. It is also about local emissions of particles, and it is microplastics. Of course, heavy transport also contributes to congestion on our motorways that we would not have to experience. A large part of heavy goods transport should be able to be transferred to rail or maritime transport. Most of the people involved in this matter, Madam President, agree that heavy transport is not currently priced in the way it should. It is simply too cheap to transport goods on our roads. That is why we have seen a complete explosion of lorry transport on Swedish roads. Here, too, we have a problem with social dumping. Many of the transports are driven by drivers who come from other countries and who pay poor wages, have bad conditions and drive many hours – many more than you get – which puts other road users in great danger. In short, we have a great need to significantly reduce emissions from heavy goods transport on the road, but also to get transport on fair and equal terms. The introduction of a distance-based charge or tax on heavy goods transport is, according to most assessors, the most effective way to tackle the problems. As I mentioned in my interpellation, there is a concrete proposal to introduce such a kilometre tax or road wear charge. It has been on the government table since 2018, so I find it strange that the government continues to investigate this issue. Madam President, I would like In view of the Minister's reply to me, I have a question. The Minister refers to the toll paid by heavy goods vehicles in Sweden today. It is true that such a fee is levied today, but does the Minister think it is sufficient? We see that the toll does not solve the problem. It is also relatively low and, above all, based on time. It is not based on distance, so it is almost an incentive to drive more and longer transport once you have paid the fee. Does Mikael Damberg not think that we need distance-based taxation of heavy transport in order to tackle social dumping and reduce emissions? I have a few more questions, but I'll get back to them.
i-40e824a931dd3918-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for an important discussion! Sweden has its own tough environmental goals that we must achieve. The transport sector is one of the sectors that contributes to a large part of the climate impacted emissions in Sweden, and a change is needed. Several different instruments and decisions will be required to reach Sweden's climate targets. One of the discussions is about what a renewed system should really look like. Today we have the Eurovignette system, which is the system on which we have reached some form of political agreement in this Chamber. There have been quite a few locks and complex issues related to how to proceed. To answer the question of whether I think it is enough, my assessment is that we are not yet doing enough to achieve environmental objectives. We do quite a lot in Sweden, but we are not there yet that we can say that we have done enough to achieve these goals. On the other hand, as far as the Eurovignette system is concerned, my assessment is that the changes to the directive currently under discussion at European level do not allow us to continue with the Eurovignette system that we have in Sweden today in the long term. So that has to change. If we want a system, it will have to develop and change. That is why I am referring to the investigation that is now in place, which will present its findings by 31 March, if I remember correctly. There are many questions that the investigation will analyse. Different alternatives to the current Eurovignette fee, such as a distance-based system or a system that is neither time-based nor distance-based, should be analysed. One should analyse and submit proposals on how technical systems can be developed and used to create better conditions for control of other regulations, that is, order and order on the roads and the cheating that has been and what has led us to outflag large parts of the Swedish transport market to countries that do not comply with the rules that we have in Sweden. It is a problem in itself, but it also contributes to crime and the exploitation of people. The study will propose how a new system should be defined and differentiated geographically as Sweden is a very elongated country. We also have industries and people living all over the country. Then a new system must work for the whole country. The study will also analyse how differentiation based on vehicle characteristics can be designed to contribute to increased environmental management. So there are quite a few questions that the investigation should answer. Saying that we should have a new system is simple. To agree in this House on a system that has a majority and also leads to a changed system is not as easy. That is the problem that both Jens Holm and I have. The current system will probably not be able to continue. We will have to change, and then there will be opportunities in a new environmental management system for freight that can actually better than today to steer towards climate goals but also to create better order and order of our roads. But let us take part in this investigation. It has followed the whole European discussion. Then there is a new basis that can contribute to discussions on how we replace the system that I believe will not be able to remain long-term in Sweden.
i-40e824a931dd3918-468	Madam President, I would like It is good that I agree with the Minister for Finance that the current system is not satisfactory. We need a new and better system that tackles social dumping and tackles the large emissions that exist in this sector and which are not in line with our climate and environmental objectives. That's good. Then I would really like to stress to the Minister, because in his reply the Minister is talking about both a time-based and a distance-based system, that if we continue with a time-based system, we will not solve the problems. Well, then we'll get some money for the Treasury. But we need a distance-based system, i.e. it costs more money for a truck to drive 100 km on the E4 along the coast of Norrland than to drive only 30 km to the nearest transhipment terminal. The minister was talking about locks. I can agree that a kilometre tax – road wear charge – has been a controversial issue. And I consider the Minister to be a minister who does not like to fight against the business community but wants to go hand in hand with the business community. That's what you might think. But sometimes you actually have to fight if big truck companies are responsible for large emissions. Then I would urge the Minister to look at the agreement reached in October by the Train Companies and Swedish Åkeri companies. It is, in fact, a unique agreement of its kind, which deals with how we can achieve more transport efficient and environmentally friendly freight transport. Among other things, there is agreement here – on page 2 – on the introduction of a road toll which also needs to take account of rural areas, just as the Minister was on. This is the first time, as far as I know, that Sweden's Åkeri companies agree that we should charge a fee on their truck transport, to be clear. I think they have come to this conclusion because they themselves see that it does not agree with the great social dumping and the completely uncontrolled international competition that currently prevails on Swedish roads. In addition, they also want to take responsibility for the large emissions that heavy road transport contributes. So it is a unique and interesting agreement that I think removes the locks that we have had in the past on this issue. It is now a golden position for a government with social and environmental ambitions to move forward on this issue. Now we have an investigation to be completed by March. I understand, therefore, that the Minister wants to wait for it. But then I don't think it's time to rest on the male anymore. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the question of how we treat the different modes of transport in Sweden. The railway sector has long been paying rail charges for transporting people and goods on Swedish railways. Every mile you drive, you pay a fee to the state. These rail charges have increased by 300 per cent over the last 15 years. It is a little strange that we are taxing the most environmentally friendly and transport efficient mode of transport that we have, namely trains, while heavy road transport does not have similar taxation. I would like to say to the Minister that this is something we need to deal with. My question was simply: is it a distance-based and not a time-based system that the Minister is also looking for? And has the Minister seen the agreement from Sweden's Åkeri companies and the Train companies?
i-40e824a931dd3918-478	Madam President, I would like I'll answer the question. What the investigation has been commissioned to analyse is either a distance-based system or a system that is neither time-based nor distance-based. The options are therefore not a time-based system and a distance-based system. This is not what the investigation has been commissioned to look at and suggest. That's the answer to the question. If there is an alternative proposal, we are prepared to look at it as well. But one of the proposals that the investigation is going to look at is precisely a distance-based system. I believe that Jens Holm indirectly criticised the fact that I would like to see the business community involved in change. I think that Jens Holm's example shows how strong it is when industries and sectors actually agree on their path to fossil freedom. It dissolves a lot of political locks as well. When this system changes – we agree that it needs to be done – it is a little interesting that the implementation of the change takes quite a long time. When it comes to implementing a new technical system and getting everything in place, my officials say that it can take eight ten years before a completely new system is actually fully implemented. This means that we can have a couple of different governments during this time. So when we make such major changes, it is an advantage if we can build agreements. But it will be very interesting to follow not least the debate in the election movement to see if the parties are prepared to back up their commitments to climate change also in concrete policies for the future. I have noticed that both the train companies and Sweden's Åkeri companies see that a renewed system would be good for them, both to meet the climate challenge and because they see that today's system contributes to unfair competition that makes it almost impossible for serious hauliers and companies to cope with the competition. It can't be for anyone in any sense. It's not good for anyone that we have it that way. I therefore hope and believe that this initiative, in particular, will contribute to transparency in the debate. And I think the debate has moved. In particular, unfair competition has contributed to a renewed discussion. But there is also a need to consider: how does this work and be geographically differentiated? And how do we ensure that Sweden, which is such an elongated country, works with such a system? It must be a starting point for a new system. I very much look forward to receiving the investigation's considerations and analyses by the end of March. It may be important for the election movement that we are entering into that the parties also have a new basis for future positions. But what we are now seeing is that we will not be able to continue with the system that we have today. All parties therefore owe the answer to what we should have instead.
i-40e824a931dd3918-488	Madam President, I would like In the coming decades up to 2040 heavy goods transport is expected to increase by 50%. Even now we think it is crowded on the roads, and even now we see that emissions are far too high. If these transports increase by 50%, we must ensure that this increase is achieved by moving from road transport to more sustainable modes of transport. We seem to agree on that, and that is very good. Then everyone is in agreement that the most effective way is to charge for the kilometres that are driven on the road. There will always be a need for truck transport on our roads, but you should not drive goods on lorries for 30, 40, 50, 60 or 100 miles. Instead, you have to put it on something else. However, you may need to drive 5 or 6 mil to the nearest transhipment terminal. I am looking forward to this investigation, and it is good that it is a distance-based system. To wait eight years I do not believe; it must be possible to go faster to implement this. I also call on the Minister to look at, for example, the system in Switzerland, which has been incredibly successful in shifting transport from road to rail. Germany and Austria also have good systems, and I think they have them in Italy. More and more countries in Europe are introducing distance-based tolls, and it is high time that we did so in Sweden. The climate can't wait. I therefore urge the Minister to proceed as soon as the investigation is completed. The investigation itself has already been delayed, so the government must act urgently here. We need a distance-based system for charging heavy goods vehicles on the road.
i-40e824a931dd3918-492	Madam President, I would like I look forward to the investigation, which I believe will add another piece of the puzzle to the debate on how we need to change the system we have today. This is needed both for us to achieve our environmental goals and for us to be able to create order and order on the roads. Then this is part of the solution. Another aspect is, not least, the question of rail transport being sufficiently attractive and functioning, and major investments in our rail network are needed to enable the freight transport that needs to roll on the railway. We also have the discussion about how our port operations in Sweden can be developed in order to manage sustainable transport in Sweden even more efficiently. We also have the whole discussion about digitalisation, which properly used can streamline and coordinate transport. Perhaps it can ensure that not all transport goes separately without us being able to bring the system together better in the future. Then there is the whole fuel discussion, which is an electrification discussion but also a question of using biofuels to a greater extent in the transport sector. All of this must work together to achieve real change and climate benefits – but also to ensure that we continue to strengthen our competitiveness. I believe that the climate investments we are now making are a way of renewing and developing Swedish industry so that it can cope with global competition in the future. It is not just a question of meeting the climate targets, but we shall show that it is possible to change the situation. Then we have great opportunities to enter the world market, not least in the case of our large export companies.
i-40e824a931dd3918-496	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me what concrete measures I plan to take to enable Sweden to rebuild shelters in the economy and secure sustainable public finances now that the surplus target is abolished. The objective of financial savings is an important part of the fiscal framework. Since the introduction of the framework, it has changed several times to follow its time, in broad agreement across party boundaries. The objective of financial savings safeguards the long-term sustainability of public finances and should not be abolished. When central government finances were restructured in the 1990s, after the moderate-led government, one of the key elements was the introduction of a fiscal framework with a budgetary surplus target. At the time of the introduction there was not as broad support for the framework as now – among other things, the Moderates were against a surplus target. Since 2014, for example, government debt has decreased by 9 per cent of GDP, and we entered the crisis with the lowest state's cult since 1977. Thanks to the financial policy framework, Sweden has been well placed to take the historically large measures required to mitigate the economic consequences of the outbreak of the virus, and in the first place it has been possible to do so without compromising confidence in the sustainability of public finances. There were three main reasons for introducing the surplus target: firstly, to restore confidence in public finances and reduce the need for foreign borrowing; secondly, to allow room for stabilisation policies; and thirdly, to help the public to meet the demographic challenge in the future. The idea was never that the public sector would go with surpluses for all eternity. Now we have a different situation. Despite the effects of the pandemic, gross debt remains low and is expected to decrease further in the future. At the same time, we are in the demographic shift that we have been preparing for. In addition, we are currently in the midst of a climate change that also places great demands on economic policy. Even before the Committee on Budgets was set up, we stated that our view was that the level of the surplus target should be reduced to a balance-sheet target. Developments since the conclusion of the agreement have further strengthened the arguments for a balance-sheet objective. The government is therefore ready to bring forward a review of the level of the surplus target.
i-40e824a931dd3918-503	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damberg had a key role when the Social Democrats broke up the fiscal framework in 2013, albeit perhaps not as a player in economic policy. It is serious to break up and weaken the economic policy framework unilaterally. Mikael Damberg is new to the role of finance minister, and when someone is new to important and central functions, it is sometimes said that he has large shoes to fill. In this case, perhaps it is more the case that it wants Damberg to take action and take new steps, because what we have seen in terms of the management of public finances and the results of economic policy in recent years has been very weak, Madam President. Sweden is breaking record in long-term unemployment. We have seen a sharp rise in unemployment. Sweden is the only EU country where unemployment has increased. We have the worst employment development in the whole of the European Union. The development of GDP is far below funds in the European Union, as is the development of households' disposable income. We have an ostensible indebtedness among households; we are one of the few countries in the European Union where household indebtedness has increased. Then I have not even begun to talk about crime, the eroded security and what the government's strategy of flock immunity meant for life and health in Sweden. The long-term sustainability of the economy and reforms depends on the orderly management of public finances. In Sweden we have a fiscal council that evaluates whether the government behaves or not. In 2016, the Council of Finance Ministers concluded that there were significant discrepancies between the financial savings and the surplus target. There are now no commitments for when and how to reach the surplus target, the Council stated. In 2017, it was said that structural savings were clearly below what the surplus target required, despite a boom in the economy. In 2018, the surplus target is changed from 1⁄3 per cent of GDP. The Council concludes that it has not been achieved and that it has not been achieved historically. Then the Moderates' budget wins in 2019, and the Financial Policy Council then notes that fiscal policy is in line with the surplus target. This means that we have had to deal with a government that has failed disastrously with jobs compared to the rest of the EU. The government has failed in terms of growth and entrepreneurship, and above all it has not pursued a policy that is in line with the common ground rules we have established. It is a cheater who has ended up as Minister of Finance, and the question is who has taken up office. There are now high expectations of Mikael Damberg to settle with the policies that destroy jobs and entrepreneurship, which hold back Swedish growth and that erode and weaken public finances in the long term. Mikael Damberg says that public finances have been strengthened and are sustainable in the long term. However, if you look at the indicators from the market, such as the exchange rate, there is nothing to support this. Now Mikael Damberg has instead tied a stranglehold for Swedish industry and Swedish investments with threats of large tax increases.
i-40e824a931dd3918-516	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Niklas Wykman for an interpellation debate which is apparently quite broad – we can have that as a first debate. When I listen to Niklas Wykman, I get the feeling that he is very disappointed that he has to fight windmills. It feels like the reality is Niklas Wykman's greatest enemy. The fact that the crisis we have been through has been poorly managed, that Swedish public finances are in more or less poor condition and that public debt is a major problem becomes a little difficult to derive from reality. You can compare with the last major crisis we had in Sweden, i.e. the financial crisis in 2008– 2009. The result was that we unnecessarily lost tens of thousands of jobs in Swedish industry. European industry took land at the expense of Swedish industry. Why? Because the then moderate-led government did not have a short-term work system in place, resulting in large redundancies. This led to a day-to-day wave across Sweden. This was lost years that Swedish industry suffered for a long time. Compare this with how we handled this crisis. We had a short-term work system in place, and 600 000 people had the opportunity to lose their jobs rather than lose their jobs. The State took part in the costs of this. Swedish industry, not least the export industry, is now moving the Swedish economy forward and out of the crisis with huge investments across Sweden. How did they deal with welfare during the 2008-2009 financial crisis? Well, in the financial crisis, there was a welfare crisis. Municipalities and regions – those financing health care, school and care for the elderly – did not receive compensation from the State for the costs of the financial crisis in the form of reduced tax revenues. They received compensation for one third of the lost tax revenue, which led to an economic crisis on top of a welfare crisis across Sweden. This time we have overcompensated municipalities and regions with financial support because we did not want the pandemic to take out tens of thousands of jobs in school, health care and care for the elderly. This is a completely different way of working, and it seems to be quite effective. Look at the growth we have in the Swedish economy! Look at the prospects for the future on the industrial side, on the economic side and on the labour market side! We are seeing a sharp fall in unemployment today, and the forecasts are very good. There are also worrying clouds. What happens to vaccination and, above all, to new variants of the virus? Could it pose new challenges for us? Then we still have the strength. We never got over 40 per cent in debt, which means that we in Sweden have very good conditions to deposit additional support if needed. After all, the forecast for the coming years is that public debt will decrease. These are strong public finances. This gives us muscles and opportunities to deal with crises in a way that is successful and for which we absolutely do not apologise. We will continue to be ready for major action. What was not clear from Niklas Wykman's speech was why he thinks that Sweden should have surplus targets in public finances when, in principle, all the heavier economists today say that it would be better to invest, both to cope with the demographics, which we are now in the midst of, and to meet the climate challenges. Do Niklas Wykman and the Moderates not take the impression of those economists who believe that this is not a balanced policy?
i-40e824a931dd3918-527	Madam President, I would like At one time leading Social Democrats wanted to ban satellite dishes. Then it was noted that the Internet was a fly that would blow past. None of this happened, but we got a modern and developed country where people have full and free access to information. It is, of course, a major problem for Mikael Damberg and the Social Democrats that this is the case. Everyone can quickly check what grade the alliance government received for how the crisis was dealt with and what grade this government has received. When the Moderates ruled the management, Sweden was appointed The Nordic Light – the world's best country to deal with the crisis. Our then finance minister Anders Borg was rewarded with a prize as Europe's best finance minister. This government has not received any such awards, to put it mildly. Instead, Sweden was appointed Europe's most dangerous country. Everyone is free to look at the claims made by Mikael Damberg and compare and check how jobs, growth, employment, household income and so on developed during the respective period of time. When the Alliance ruled and the Moderates led the government, Sweden was at the top of almost all these leagues. Now Sweden is in the bottom or, at best, mediocre. In a crisis one must of course compare with other countries. Mikael Damberg is very pleased, and that is worrying. Many had probably hoped for a little new business with a new Minister of Finance, but Mikael Damberg is very pleased with a handling with which we have thus gained record in long-term unemployment and greatly increased unemployment. We are the only EU country where unemployment has increased. We have the worst employment development in the whole of the European Union. Both GDP and disposable income are well below average growth rates. We've had a runaway household debt. Crime has become a major and everyday problem for almost everyone living in this country. Mikael Damberg believes that there has been some sort of success. Let me say this on behalf of the Swedish people, Madam President: nobody agrees with this, except those who are paid by the Social Democratic Party or are in this government. This debate is about the surplus target. I was asked why I want to maintain the surplus target and do not want to agree to the weakening of public finances and steering oars that Mikael Damberg and the Social Democrats want to do. It's simple. As a politician and politically responsible, you should not equip Sweden for sunshine and good weather, but you should equip the country and public finances for worse days, low wind, snow, cold weather and hard winds. When they blow into the economy, it is only by having shelters that we can manage to protect jobs, growth and entrepreneurship. Mikael Damberg states that the surplus target has served Sweden well. The surplus target has caused dry powder in the barn to be used when the crisis attacks. From this, Mikael Damberg comes to the conclusion that the surplus target will now be abolished. In practice, Magdalena Andersson and Mikael Damberg have already abolished it, because the surplus target has not been met for a single year throughout this government's ownership, but to permanently establish and establish such a bad policy is harmful to Sweden and risks thousands of jobs throughout the country.
i-40e824a931dd3918-539	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have problems with this argumentation. We Social Democrats have taken over three times after bourgeois government holdings, and each time we have been forced to clean up large deficits and large public debt. We've had to clean up. We have no problem doing that, because it is in our DNA that public spending should be kept in order. One should ensure that Sweden has a strong economy that can afford to deploy support when needed, as during the pandemic. The difference between how the financial crisis was managed – against how the welfare and industry were managed then and how the unemployed were laid off and actually did not come back to industry – is striking. But the interesting thing is the discussion about the surplus target. After all, we Social Democrats introduced the surplus target because we saw that it did not work to have governments that did not take responsibility for public finances – I am referring to some previous governments. First, the Moderates were opposed to introducing the target. When we would then adjust the target from 1 percent, the Moderates were against this, but they eventually agreed to lower the surplus target. We and many economists are now saying that we should have a balance goal, because now we have achieved what we would achieve and, above all, we need the money to make major public commitments in elderly care and in climate change so that Sweden will be a safe country and meet the security challenges that Sweden faces. Then the Moderates say no again. I guess you always just say no and then adapt. It will turn out that we were right this time too. The interesting thing here is the discussion of reality. Is it the case that the Swedish economy is now developing well or badly? Is it the case that unemployment is rising or falling today? This is where Wykman ends up in a parallel universe. We see a very strong recovery in the Swedish economy and falling unemployment. AF's latest statistics, which came just a few days ago, showed that we are now down to the same or a lower level than before the crisis. And the projections for the future show continued strong job growth. That's good. In addition, we are taking up the opportunity of new crisis aid, because there are sectors that now really have a challenge, such as the restaurant industry, with the cancelled Christmas dinners, and the border trade with Norway. Then we have the resources to put in to cover this, so I think that is a balanced policy. To be honest: a tt be criticized by Moderates for not keeping public finances in order, when every time you have had the chance to leave behind your deficits and major problems, you do not feel like the strongest attack on social democratic government ownership.
i-40e824a931dd3918-548	Madam President, I would like It cannot be avoided to hear that Mikael Damberg is full of eagerness and commitment that characterizes, optionally safe, courses from Bommersvik in Swedish economic history. But the national economy and the history of the Swedish economy are perhaps somewhat broader than those taught in the SSU courses. In the face of the crisis in the 1990s, Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt resigned from the government in protest against the Social Democrats mismanagement of public finances and the economy. They panicked instead to add Allan Larsson, who did not seem to care much about public finances. Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt was quite right, and the policy pursued by the Social Democrats brought the Swedish economy to a complete collapse. Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt was quite right. He was fired by an irresponsible S-government. As a result, half a million people lost their jobs. Then, Mikael Damberg, an evaluation was made of a person who many hoped and thought would be Minister of Finance, Jens Henriksson at the Ministry of Finance. He noted that the crisis in the 1990s was caused, among other things, by an irresponsible Social Democratic policy in the 1980s. When it comes to the management of public finances during this crisis, public finances were not taken over freely. The surplus, structural savings, was 2 per cent in the year of the Alliance, 2.2 per cent, 1.3 per cent, 1.3 per cent, 0.9 per cent, 0.3 per cent, minus 0.5 per cent and minus 0.5 per cent. It was therefore on the total below the surplus target of 1 per cent. Instead, this government has had surpluses of 0% or 0.08%. It is therefore clear that it is moderates and not Social Democrats who take responsibility and develop the Swedish economy.
i-40e824a931dd3918-553	Madam President, I would like Economists say that we now have major investments to make in care for the elderly, in greater security, with more police and stronger justice systems, but also major climate investments that need to be made. Niklas Wykman has not, in this debate, justified with a word why he thinks that Sweden should refrain from making these investments in this interest rate situation, with the environment we have and with the confidence there is. It's strange. The economic debate that is taking place in Sweden and around the world should be taken into account. One thing I do not intend to take the impression of is that it often sounds like the Mo-derates want to take responsibility for the economy and finances, because once they get the chance in government, they lower taxes without financing it, leading to deficits and cuts in the public sector. It also led to crisis management in 2008 and 2009, which knocked out large parts of Swedish industry completely unnecessarily and left the welfare society without compensation. It is a very good illustration of how to handle crises in different ways. I am absolutely sure that when we sum up how we did the jobs, how we did the well-being and how we managed Swedish industry, this crisis will stand out in a comparison of how we handled the crisis in 2008 and 2009. Perhaps it would be nice to have some research from the Moderates in a debate on accountability that we might need a system of short-term work that works and protects employees even during a crisis.
i-40e824a931dd3918-557	Madam President, I would like Mr Eklind has asked me whether I intend to introduce a requirement for the identification of those who are to be granted a permanent residence permit. Sweden has regulated immigration, which means that the general rule is that a person who wants a residence permit in Sweden should apply and be granted one before entering Sweden. The main rule for granting a residence permit is that the person can prove his or her identity. In cases where a person is suspected of providing incorrect information as a basis for his/her application for a residence permit, the Finnish Immigration Service has a special investigation function that assists with support and conducts in-depth investigations. In addition, the Government has implemented measures to improve the ability of the authorities to identify people residing in Sweden without a permit. On 1 July 2021, among other things, a new legislation entered into force which means that it is possible to photograph and, provided that the person is at the age of 14, to take fingerprints in internal checks on aliens. Sweden will also implement the EU's new entry and exit system, a new system for travel data and authorisations and an increased use of the Schengen Information System (SIS). This will improve the control of those crossing the external borders, which will also have a major impact on Swedish border control. Having said that, I am always prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-40e824a931dd3918-561	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I hope that we will have a dialogue here today that aims and ends in saying how we can secure the legitimacy of regulated immigration. The interpellation takes on board something that I think is absolutely fundamental, namely that we know who it is that has the opportunity to be in our country, whether temporary or permanent, which is precisely the focus of this interpellation. That is not the case today. However, I note with a little curiosity and hope that the Government will say that he is prepared to take further action if necessary. My answer, of course, is that I firmly believe that it is necessary and that we need to do more. Sweden today has a serious problem, I mean, with people who are in Sweden under false or actually no identity at all. Any warning bells should have been ringing at every politician when our own border police recently stated: we have a parallel society that is only growing, and we have lost control of who is here. On top of this statement, which in itself is sufficient to engage in this matter, we can add the assessment made by the Migration Agency in 2017 that there are nearly 60 000 individuals registered with two or more identities at the Migration Board. The work added that the number of darkness in addition is great, which means that there are probably many more. Then we should agree, I think, that there is a need here both to roll up the sleeves and to take further action. The interpretation has its background in that when I joined the Migration Policy Committee and worked on a basis for the new migration legislation that exists in Sweden since July, we had a number of different proposals from the different parties. We Christian Democrats then proposed changes to what is necessary to obtain the right to a permanent residence permit, PUT. At the time, we argued in the Committee that language, social orientation, trial and livelihood requirements should be introduced. It also became part of the Committee's final report. But then, as you know, the Social Democrats, when they ruled with the Green Party, chose to remove the demands of language and social science once the bill landed on the Riksdag table. I mean that was and is unfortunate from an integration point of view. When Parliament debated this in June and decided on a new migration law, there was a demand from us Christian Democrats that should be added with regard to the right to PUT: that identity be ensured. That is not the case today. In the present system, it is not the case that a person who has the right to reside permanently in Sweden has ensured his or her identity. The Social Democrats voted against this, and I therefore ask the Government: Is he and the government open to reconsidering this point? Is he prepared to take further action?
i-40e824a931dd3918-569	Madam President, I would like As far as the problem is concerned, I believe that I and the interpeller agree, as well as the need to have taken and take more action. On the other hand, we can probably differ in exactly what measures we think are most effective in remedying the problems that exist. For those who listen, I would like to mention that since the Migration Agency made that statement in 2017, a great deal of work has been done to solve the problem of double identities. A new standard has been introduced for review levels of ID documents. A certification process has also been put in place for specific ID-auditors in order to enhance and ensure the competence of the audit of ID-documents. In the asylum examination, all identity documents are now sent to the examination of certified reviewers. Work is also under way to deploy ID experts to our foreign authorities to strengthen the skills of seconded personnel and build on enhanced control. As Hans Eklind expresses, there is a need for further action, and a number of additional measures are being taken. We have expanded the Swedish education that new arrivals to Sweden receive. We have also greatly increased the social orientation of newly arrived sheep. It is reasonable that, when we are to give permanent residence permits, we can also ensure that they have taken advantage of the knowledge we have provided through this extended training. I see that we will come back with proposals in this direction.
i-40e824a931dd3918-574	Madam President, I would like An identity requirement is a way to ensure that potentially dangerous individuals are not allowed to reside in Sweden, above all not permanently. For me as a Christian Democrat, this is one of the most important areas of migration policy in addition to the fact that I see that we need to have a reduction in Swedish reception. As politicians, we must feel a responsibility to guarantee the security of our citizens, and we cannot do that unless we know the identity of those who are in Sweden. One reason why it looks like this is our inability in this area. Let me mention a few figures. This year, only 14% of those who have applied for asylum in Sweden have identified themselves with a passport document; 86% have done otherwise, mainly through an oral story. At country level, we note that 58 out of 1 153 people from Afghanistan have identified themselves with passports. It is therefore 95% who have not done so. As far as I know, this is the best statistics we have. As far as Eritrea is concerned, 97% have not identified themselves. For Ethiopia and Somalia, the figures are 98 and 99 per cent respectively. Maybe someone thinks that's what it looks like. But it does not have to be so; it is not cut into stone. A comparison with Germany shows that Swedish figures are below all criticism. To add to this and perhaps as an explanation why it looks like this in Sweden: v i has a legal position from earlier this year, i.e. 2021, where the Migration Agency believes that in some cases you can issue a residence permit, and listen now, even though the identity has not been made likely. I think it is clear that today's work on clarifying identity has come to an end and that it is time for a round-up. Part of this move would be to comply with the Christian Democrats' proposal to ensure the identity of the person granted a permanent residence permit. For me, it feels like a minimum requirement that we should know who the person who gets the right to be in Sweden permanently is. You voted against this in June this year, and so far I hear no indication of change. The government will be happy to correct me if I'm wrong. I would like to draw this out of the Government by asking: Does the Government not think that such an identity requirement as part of the requirements for obtaining PUT would be a step in the right direction? Otherwise, I hope that at the election we get the keys to Rosenbad so that we not only turn over stones but actually overturn moving blocks. I believe that this is a step in the right direction for those who see that this issue of identity is important and that we have a great deal to do. This is not the solution to everything, but it is absolutely a step in the right direction.
i-40e824a931dd3918-585	Madam President, I would like It is worth repeating, however, that the main rule for granting a residence permit is that the person can prove his or her identity. That's the way it is, and that's the way it should be. I welcome all the measures we can take to clarify this general rule. The figures mentioned by Mr Eklind are for asylum seekers and not for those who have been granted asylum. It is less than a third of those seeking asylum who are granted asylum, and with the legislation we have in this area, it is reasonable to believe that those who cannot make their identity likely have a higher rejection rate than those who can make their identity likely. I am prevented by the form of government from commenting on a particular legal position of the Migration Agency. However, I firmly believe that there should be very special cases for granting asylum or a residence permit to a person who cannot make his or her identity probable. As Hans Eklind is well aware, there are several ways to do this than with a passport document. biometric information can sometimes be sufficient so that we can ensure identity through different databases, both national and international. We only opened up at yesterday's government meeting to a new legislation in which everyone crossing the EU's external border will give up both biometric information in the form of fingerprints and facial image for facial recognition. We have also gone beyond what EU rules require in that we also provide the Migration Agency with the opportunity to establish fingerprint and facial image registers for identification. I am not closing the door to return to the House with further measures to strengthen the general rule of ensuring identity. The listener may wonder why one should have the opportunity at all to grant a single person asylum without a passport document, because that may sound on Hans Eklind's speech. Yes, in exceptional cases it may be that the regime from which you are fleeing has seized the passport documents and refuses to cooperate with the Swedish authorities to identify the person. It is common not least in Communist dictatorships that passports and travel documents are simply not issued, and then it can be very difficult for the individual to present this type of information. But then there are other ways you can make your identity likely if you cooperate with Swedish authorities and the Swedish Migration Service. But, Hans Eklind, we agree that the main rule is that one should make one's identity known and then probable, and one can do so in many ways. This general rule will be established and further developed.
i-40e824a931dd3918-594	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for allowing us to reason a little in an interpellation debate. It's been a little bit like that today. I hear there's an opening. At the same time, of course, I hear that the Government elegantly avoids the question itself in my interpellation: Does the Government consider that there should be an identity requirement for a permanent residence permit, PUT? The main rule is to make one's identity known. That's right. Although it is a new area for which the Government is responsible, he should be aware that there is a legal position from as late as this year where it is believed that a residence permit can be issued even though the identity has not, in large letters, been made likely, i.e. the lower level. What makes me frustrated is that the identity issue is not moving in the right direction. An identity requirement is one way to ensure that we have people who we know who they are. But we also have the problem now in Sweden. People deviate and are here illegally. The situation is that many times we do not always know who the people are here, and so we do not know who they are who deviate and stay illegally in the country either. During the last seven years, the Migration Agency, together with the Police Authority, has established that approximately one whole Borlänge or one whole Örnsköldsvik is in Sweden illegally. One can combine the fact that people are here illegally with the harsh assertion that the border police are making, not I, that we do not know who they are. It causes me to be deeply concerned. I note that you want to see a cat count, but you reject censuses. Given the importance of knowing who these people are, I think that censuses should go ahead of cat count.
i-40e824a931dd3918-600	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Eklind! I guess this is how you get Christmastimes to give Hans Eklind a rhetorical point. But I can assure Hans Eklind that we have a much better track of which people are staying in Sweden than which cats are staying in Sweden. I will not develop this and thereby make myself an enemy of the Swedish animal welfare movement, and I do not think Hans Eklind is interested in that either. Madam President, I would like I'm going back to the main question. We tightened up the rules on identification at the EU's external border only yesterday. We increased the possibilities for biometric record keeping and biometric use in internal immigration control. It's true that we have people here who shouldn't be here. Very many of them, Hans Eklind, have come as labour immigrants. When the moderate-led government with KD's propensity for aid introduced the world's most liberal rules for labour immigration, it made it possible to buy a residence permit in Sweden in India for $100,000 and come and pretend to work in an Indian restaurant. This means that people from Eastern Europe live in Stockholm's underground, who are labour immigrants and who are here illegally. This, Hans Eklind, we must put an end to. The Government will shortly present a first bill at the Riksdag's table. I hope, then, that Mr Eklind and the Christian Democrats will take the chance and turn away from the policy which they themselves pursued in the alliance government and which in this respect has put us in a miserable situation which distinguishes us from all other Western European countries. Madam President, I would like With that I would like to thank Hans Eklind for an interesting discussion and take the opportunity to wish both the President and Hans Eklind a really merry Christmas!
i-40e824a931dd3918-605	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to work for Sweden to return with a new more ambitious climate contribution to the UN by the end of 2022 and whether the government intends to present it as a national contribution that complements and goes beyond the EU's climate contribution. Jens Holm has also asked me whether I intend to work for the EU to tighten up its climate contribution for the end of 2022. The current global climate commitments are far from adequate. Global emissions are currently expected to increase by over 13% by 2030 when, according to science, they need to decrease by 45%. There are countries that account for significant emissions that have not yet made a climate commitment or completely inadequate commitments. All countries need to do more to ensure that climate work is considered to be in line with science and the Paris Agreement's 1.5°C target. The G20 countries have a special responsibility, given that they account for 80% of the world's emissions. In Sweden, we have adopted sharp national emission targets as well as a climate policy action plan designed to live up to the Paris Agreement and respond to science. We are also working through the EU and are the driving force for the EU to adopt even more ambitious climate action for all Member States. Sweden and the EU both support and drive other countries. Sweden's host for Stockholm+ 50 in June 2022 offers a unique opportunity to further push forward the global ambition efforts. The Government believes that science must form the basis for the formulation of national targets, which is why it should also permeate the forthcoming climate policy action plan. The EU's updated joint climate commitment presented in December 2020 was a tightening up and an updated and expanded target for a reduction of at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. This ambition has also been laid down in the EU climate law. Although Sweden wanted to see even higher targets, I am proud that in the UN climate negotiations, the EU is seen as one of the most ambitious parties. Sweden is now working towards an ambitious implementation of the EU legal instruments which the Commission has subsequently submitted and which will ensure that the EU's objectives are achieved. It is in this context that we can, above all, influence ambition. I also see before me that a discussion can be held within the EU on the EU's climate ambition in the light of the latest science of next year, such as how we are creating opportunities through the ongoing legislative work to exceed the EU's objectives. Madam President, I would like The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international agreement and covers issues relating to the competences of both the European Union and the Member States. It is a so-called mixed agreement and is therefore to be ratified by both the EU and its Member States. The EU Member States chose, in the conclusions of the Environment Council of 18 September 2015, to express their intention to act jointly within the framework of the Paris Agreement, as confirmed by the Council Decision approving the Paris Agreement on 5 October 2016. It strengthens the EU's position as we can jointly demonstrate a high climate ambition. Under the EU Treaties, Member States also have an obligation to act in coherence and loyalty with the Union in foreign policy. In the light of this, I will not work for Sweden to present its own climate commitment to the UN. It is extremely important that the EU can continue to act together and be a strong driving force in the climate negotiations. It should also be pointed out that there is a risk that Sweden will present its own climate commitment as it can be followed by other, less ambitious EU countries presenting their own climate commitments. In addition to watering down the strength of the joint action of all EU Member States, this would seriously damage confidence in the EU in the climate negotiations.
i-40e824a931dd3918-612	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and the Environment for what I think is her first speech on climate policy in Parliament. That is very welcome. I hope there'll be more of that product. This is an important debate. We are in a climate emergency. That's exactly what the climate minister says. The commitments made globally are far from sufficient. With the commitments now in place, emissions will increase and not decrease by 2030. What is an increase in emissions? I was on site at the climate summit in Glasgow myself. When you meet negotiators, activists and researchers from developing countries such as South Africa, Bolivia, Philippines, Bangladesh and Tuvalu, it is very clear that the climate crisis is here and now. For them, it is an existential question: Can we live in our village next year when the drought strikes again? Can we remain in our societies as the sea level rises even further, as it does in the island states of South-East Asia, for example? I can say that they were not very impressed by the contributions that came from the rich countries, from North America and the EU, nor from Sweden. They demand that more be done. Otherwise we are heading for a temperature rise of nearly 3 degrees Celsius at the end of this century. How much is 3 degrees Celsius temperature rise? The World Bank has produced a report on an analysis of just such an increase. One of the conclusions was that it means the end of civilization as we know them. It just can't happen! It is our children and grandchildren that we put in that situation. Madam President, I would like The final resolution adopted in Glasgow was not what we needed, if you say so. In fact, however, Article 29 of the final resolution commits all parties to return with increased and improved climate contributions by 2022 at the latest. There will be reinforced contributions that will increase emissions reductions by 2030 that are in line with the Paris Agreement. This was welcomed by all the people from the southern countries whom I met from the environmental movement. That was perhaps the most important contribution from the Glasgow Summit. Now, Madam President, I put the question to the Minister for Climate Change: how does Sweden intend to meet the agreement on enhanced climate commitments? So it should be in 2022 that you present them. However, I am not getting a real answer, but I am told about European loyalty and that it damages credibility, etcetera, if we come back with stronger environmental ambitions. It can't be a breach of loyalty, can it? Rather, if we do not strengthen our climate commitments, we are truly violating climate loyalty and loyalty to all other countries around the world. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again: what does Article 29 of the Glasgow Declaration mean? Does this not mean that Sweden must return with stronger climate commitments? And does it not also mean that the EU must strengthen its climate commitments? Yes or no?
i-40e824a931dd3918-622	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for what is unambiguously an incredibly important interpellation! We are, as you say, in the midst of a climate emergency. The climate issue is the destiny of our time. That is also why the new government has pointed out precisely the transition to a green folk house as one of the most important priorities for the next ten years. Nevertheless, I think it must be very clear that the most important thing here is that we are achieving results. It is also reflected in my interpellation response to Jens Holm. In order to achieve the greatest possible impact, we also need to do so together with others. Hence, as Member States, we have an obligation under the EU Treaties to act coherently and in loyalty to the Union in foreign policy. It would therefore seem very strange if Sweden were to present its own climate commitment to the UN. It is extremely important that we can continue to act together in Europe. Above all, if Sweden were to go ahead and present its own climate commitment, it would open up for other, less ambitious, EU countries to do exactly the same and rather move in a different direction. It would further undermine and divide the important common ambitions of taking responsibility for what is now happening in the world around us. We are now negotiating the legislation implementing the current 2030 target of at least 55%. We last sat on the EU Board this morning and discussed the large EU package, the Fit for 55, which contains twelve pieces of legislation to be implemented. That's where all the cogs hang together to form a unit. To be realistic, we know that these negotiations are already expected to be difficult, with the current objective. At the same time, time is scarce, just as Jens Holm says, for the opportunity to deliver on the target. That is why I see a risk in starting work in 2022 to tighten up the overall goal of 2030, which means that the EU cannot deliver on its target. On the other hand, I think it is important, as Mr Holm says, that we have a debate within the EU on the EU's climate ambition in the light of not least the latest knowledge. This applies, among other things, to the IPCC reports that we heard during the spring. However, the discussion should relate to how, in the ongoing legislative work on the different legal acts, we can turn the ambition further up so that we exceed our target of at least 55% by 2030. I would also like to emphasise in this context that work on a new post 2030 climate commitment starts in 2023 within the EU and is expected to be presented in 2024.
i-40e824a931dd3918-630	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Climate Change is trying to make this a question of us in the Left Party wanting a new climate target for Sweden for the next climate summit that could be in conflict with the EU. That is not the case. What we want is for Sweden to be able to move forward as a forerunner and have a climate contribution to the next climate summit that complements and goes beyond the EU's objectives. It should not in any way oppose the same. As far as I know, we're perfectly free to do that. Unless the Minister for Climate Change can contradict me, because this is a very important question: can we or can we not go forward with a Swedish climate grant that complements and goes beyond the EU's? In my opinion – and I have been a Member of the European Parliament for a number of years before I ended up in this Assembly – Member States can do that. I do not think there is anyone in Brussels who would disagree if Sweden did. Everyone is talking about the need for frontrunners, that is, that we need countries that go ahead and demonstrate climate leadership. Therefore, it would be so good if Sweden could act under Article 29 of the Glasgow Declaration, which obliges all parties to return with updated and improved climate contributions to reduce emissions by 2030. And this should be done in 2022, so it's pretty soon it has to happen!
i-40e824a931dd3918-635	My next question concerns the EU's climate contribution. Sweden's climate contribution to the climate negotiations is the same as the EU's. We are leaning entirely on the European Union. In this context, it is extremely important that we contribute to the improvement of this climate contribution, just as the Minister for Climate Change is concerned. However, it is somewhat unclear whether there will be any change whatsoever to the EU's climate contribution. I have heard what various EU representatives have said: No, the Fit for 55 is still there. We are not going to change anything! But why have we agreed to Article 29 of the Glasgow Declaration, which just says that everyone should update and improve their climate contributions? Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Climate Change: in what way does she intend to work for the EU's climate contribution to the next climate summit to be improved as provided for in Article 29? Or will Sweden not work for it to change anything at all?
i-40e824a931dd3918-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for sharp questions and also for the commitment that the Left Party shows on these issues! I am very proud that Sweden already today in many ways wears a leadership shirt on these issues and is an example for many other countries. We know very well that more needs to be done, but it is also a fact – as I said earlier here today to various media – that we are now meeting the interim target for 2020 and that last year we reduced emissions by 9%. We know that this is largely an effect of the pandemic, but these are also lessons that we are taking with us into the future linked to this. There are also parts of the 9% reduction in emissions that mean that with an ambitious climate policy we have achieved permanent reductions. I'm the first one to say it matters. I am also the first to say that it matters that we have frontrunners. We now see, for example, when it comes to electricity and heat, or for that matter transport, that Sweden has achieved permanent emission reductions and that it is moving in the right direction. We shall continue to have a high tail rate in the international context as well. We are currently in a situation, which was also confirmed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's comments on the emission reductions last year, where an incredible amount of positive things are happening in Sweden. We have a Swedish industry and a Swedish business community that stands and frustrates and wants to be part of implementing the green innovations and ensure that we get the new, smart jobs. Sweden can show that it is possible to combine being a welfare country and becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country with at the same time ensuring that people join us on that journey and also seeing the opportunities in the climate transition we are in the midst of. With regard to what the government can do more to raise climate ambitions globally, we can nevertheless note that something that came out of COP 26 was that we have now received several parts of the Paris Agreement's so-called rule book in place. The full focus is now also on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Different types of support for implementation in developing countries will be an important element for a higher ambition. We are now working intensively in the Government Office to shape a direction for how the government can strengthen the implementation of the Paris Agreement, not least through climate diplomacy, policy dialogue, financing and innovative technology, as you know. We have previously doubled our support for the Green Climate Fund. We also announced for COP 26, precisely to show that we are forerunners, that we are strengthening our climate finance in 2022 with SEK 1 billion and doubling climate funding to SEK 15 billion to 2025. That's where we really stand out. We will now be working extremely actively on the implementation of the Fit for 55. Hopefully, in these contexts, when we are also negotiating the legislative acts, we can further increase our ambition so that we exceed our target of at least 55% by 2030 and be a driver in those contexts.
i-40e824a931dd3918-645	Madam President, I would like It is very good news that Sweden's emissions decreased by 9 percent, although we know it is a pandemic effect. The pandemic gives us opportunities, absolutely. In fact, I have written a book that has come out this year and is called Pandemin as an opportunity. I wish I had brought this with me, because I would very much like to give it to the Minister for Climate as a Christmas present. Maybe it could be a delayed Christmas present at a later date. There's a lot to learn from the pandemic. We must safeguard the behavioural changes and positive things that have now arisen and, of course, deal with the bad ones. It is very positive that is happening. I am fully committed to the vision of having the world's best welfare country, creating new green jobs and at the same time changing our entire country so that we reach our climate targets. There is an incredible amount of interest in Swedish industry and in other areas. Here, however, we are talking about climate negotiations. The forthcoming climate negotiations, COP 27, will be in Egypt, and then all countries are expected to come with new, improved climate contributions. I have asked whether Sweden will come up with an additional climate subsidy that goes beyond that of the European Union. I interpret the Minister for Climate Change as saying that Sweden will not, and I regret that. We should do that if we want to be real forerunners on the climate issue. I also asked this question earlier to the climate minister: does the climate minister not think that we can complement the EU's joint climate contribution if we want to? I did not get an answer, but at least my answer is that we can certainly do it. I also asked the question how the Minister for Climate Change wants to work for the EU's climate contribution to be revised and improved for future climate summits. Will the climate minister work for it? I hope so.
i-40e824a931dd3918-651	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this, Jens Holm! I'm very much looking forward to reading that book, whether I'm getting it as a Christmas present from you or in some other way. We fully agree that, both in Sweden and, of course, globally, we need to evaluate what it means that we have handled business trips in a completely different way during the pandemic. We must also use the technology we see in other areas to ensure that we have a sustainable world to hand over to our children. It is our duty to do so. The government has stated in the past – you know that we also pushed it in the negotiations – that we wanted even more sharp targets when we participated in the EU negotiations on the package that now became Fit for 55. We wanted 60 or 65 percent. I also hear your straight questions, Jens Holm. I would therefore like to reiterate that we are now in the middle of the negotiation of this legislation, which is about reaching a 55% target. It is a complicated framework that has now been put forward to implement this, where the different cogs are interrelated. We also know that at European level we have countries that have come at different stages and that the negotiations will be very difficult. If, in that situation, Sweden enters and begins work in 2022 to tighten up the overall target by 2030, I think it could risk that the EU cannot deliver on its target. It may also jeopardise a negative debate. However, we will continue to have the leadership shirt in this. Once again, I think it is important that we have a discussion within the EU on the EU's climate ambitions in the light of the latest science we receive in 2022, not least the IPCC report. I look forward to further discussions.
i-40e824a931dd3918-657	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I intend to take a decision on the close-to-date disposal, whether I consider that the application for disposal needs to be supplemented in any way, and if so, how, before decisions can be taken by the government, and what measures I and the government intend to take to avoid risks of electricity problems that may arise from the government's handling of the application for disposal. The application submitted by SKB for authorisation of a coherent system for the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel and waste is, to say the least, very comprehensive. The application is one of the largest environmental issues in Sweden ever and a major infrastructure project. In order to take a position on the application, the Government must ensure that the whole matter is well investigated. The administration in the Government Office has included a wide range of measures, inter alia due to the fact that the opinion of the Land and the Environment Court required complementary materials which have been referred, communicated and announced. It has also been important to ensure the support of municipalities in this matter. The government has since the cases came in worked to collect the information necessary for a balanced decision to be made. In August this year, the Government decided to allow capacity expansion of the central intermediate warehouse in order to avoid an impact on the energy market. I would also like to inform you that two more cases concerning custody have been dealt with in the Government Office. It is an application under the Environmental Code and an application under the Nuclear Technology Act for the extension of the existing repository for low and medium-active short-lived radioactive waste, SFR, where, among other things, demolition waste from nuclear power plants is to be stored. The expansion of SFR is another important piece of the puzzle in the Swedish disposal system. I believe that the decisions on the SFR are now ready for decision. However, a common factor for all decisions is that they are large, complex decisions. If the Government approves the application, the Government Decisions shall ensure that the continued court proceedings run smoothly and that the final repository achieves a high level of security. The government has just taken office. I have given the dossier the highest priority, but it is also my responsibility to ensure that the decisions that will be taken are of high quality. In the repository, life-threatening radioactive waste should be stored for long periods of time, and it is extremely important that it should be right. Work on making decisions is now in full swing in the Government Office. Lars Hjälmered wonders if there is any further addition before decisions can be made by the government. I've been familiar with the cases, and my assessment is that they are now ready for final communication. When it comes to the question of whether decisions come in the near future, the answer is yes. The review of the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel has now entered the final phase. After extensive work, I believe that the cases will be ready for decision soon. The government's focus is to make the decisions at the first possible opportunity. Under the current conditions, the Government plans to take a decision on the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel on 27 January next year. The government is also planning to decide on the extension of the detention facility for low and medium-active radioactive waste, SFR, already on 22 December this year.
i-40e824a931dd3918-666	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the Minister for Climate and Environment, for your answer. This is not the first time that we in this House have discussed the custody. But let me say at the outset, as a bottom sheet, that if we are to cope with climate change and be able to continue to safeguard the competitiveness of Swedish industry, nuclear power is needed. Furthermore, this autumn, if not before, has shown the need to be able to have stability in the electricity system and of course to have clean electricity in the system and not to burn oil, as we have done in the autumn. Let me also remind you that nuclear power accounts for about 30% of electricity production in the country. As regards the question of disposal, this government has been negligent about the decision on disposal. I note that, in its reply, the Government refers to the fact that it has just taken up its duties. It may be, but the government has since the application from SKB was received been S-controlled. Even though Annika Strandhäll is new, this cannot be blamed. This is not a responsible way of dealing with this important issue. The government's handling of the end-of-life issue has caused great concern about the future of nuclear power, damaged trust from society to politics and cost huge money unnecessarily. Decisions have been ready to be taken for a long time, but the government has been delaying until now even giving notice of the timetable for the decision. It went so far that last summer the state's own energy company Vattenfall warned that nuclear reactors would have to be shut down if no decisions were to be taken immediately. As has been said, the application for a permit for disposal was submitted by SKB about ten years ago. Since then there has been extensive work on audits, investigations, hearings and referrals. Everyone who is affected by the decision, all the consultation bodies – SKB, the Radiation Safety Authority and the host municipalities – has said yes to the proposal. Everything is clear and clear. There's only one government decision. Now a decision has to be made on the custody. I'm critical of how the government has handled this. But I welcome the fact that Annika Strandhäll now announces that the matter is ready for decision, which it has certainly been for a long time, and that the government will announce a decision on final disposal of spent nuclear fuel on 27 January 2022. Now we have a timetable for the disposal. But we don't know what the government's will is. I want to know – it was also one of Lars Helmered's questions – how the government views the issue of final custody. Are you for or against? If the government is to be able to decide on a timetable, one must reasonably have an idea of what the decision will be. I therefore wonder whether the government will approve the plans presented regarding the custody.
i-40e824a931dd3918-673	I believe that one must be extremely humble in view of the fact that no other country has so far resolved the issue of nuclear fuel disposal. We're talking about storing the nuclear fuel for a hundred thousand years. The question came at the government table in January 2018. And when the cases were handed over to the government, they were not ready for decision. My picture is that the government has been working actively on the matters since they came in. The necessary complements have been collected, the communication process has been carried out and the case has been consulted. At the end of August, Minister Bolund also explained that he also saw that the possibilities for moving forward with a decision were a number of months away. In the interim period, from August until I have had the opportunity to give this information about a timetable for decision-making, further questions have also been asked to the Nuclear Waste Council and to the Radiation Safety Authority, including about the copper capsules. This is one of the largest environmental issues in Sweden in modern times. We shall deal with this issue with the responsibility it deserves. On the basis of the last questions that have been discussed, I and the department can conclude that in this case our expert authorities have not had reason to change their previous assessment. On this basis, we believe that we will be able to move forward and make decisions in the near future. I will not, in this interpellation debate, precede the forthcoming government decision. We are now writing, based on the evidence we have, the decisions to be made. As has been said, the ambition is to decide on the SFR as early as next week. Given that Mrs Roswall raised it, I would also like to say something about the energy mix. Yes, nuclear power is still an important part of the Swedish energy mix. About 30% of people today come from nuclear power. And nuclear power will also be an important part of the Swedish energy mix for a number of years to come. At the same time, it is quite clear to me as Minister for Climate and the Environment where the future lies and where the willingness to invest is. During next year we have applications that – how to say? "There is an incredible increase, by several thousand percent, when it comes to investing in offshore wind power, for example. It is in the renewables that the future lies. I hope that's where we're going too.
i-40e824a931dd3918-680	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Let's start with the fact that no other country has solved it. After all, Finland has started to build its final repository. So it may not be correct. I would also like to come back to some other points raised by the Government in its reply. As I said, an investigation has been going on for a very long time. Together with the government's own expert authorities, we have argued that the whole thing is done. However, I note that the Government in its response blames – if I may use my own words – for waiting for the two host municipalities, among other things. I live in Uppsala County and have followed this very closely and for a long time. The municipalities of Östhammar and Oskarshamn have been very clear about their findings. They have also been very critical that the government has not made a decision. I therefore think that referring to them is not quite fair. In addition, both municipalities were very clear this summer when the government chose to divide the application. They felt betrayed. The Parliament has been very active and has pushed the government ahead of it to persuade the government to make a decision. We have even made an announcement in the past. The Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats in March of this year, demanded that the government make a single decision, in accordance with what authorities, municipalities and the industry themselves have said. I would like to return to another question that Lars Helmered asked in his interpellation. Let me read out Question 3, which I do not think the Government has answered today: what measures does the Minister and the Government intend to take in order to avoid the risks of electricity problems that exist as a result of the government's handling of the application for final custody? So far, the government has shown no willingness to secure the future of nuclear power in Sweden. In itself, the Government is now saying that nuclear power will also play an important role in the future, and so are other government representatives. However, we can still see that the government has closed four reactors at the same time during the last two terms of office. I would therefore like to receive an answer to Lars Helmered's question number 3.
i-40e824a931dd3918-690	Madam President, I would like First of all, the Finnish final disposal process differs a great deal from the Swedish one. There are still decisions to be made there, and there are also permits in our process that are not yet available in Finland. I want to be clear about this. I must also come back to the fact that we are here today debating Sweden's most important environmental issue. We are talking about nuclear fuel to be stored for a hundred thousand years. It is not taking responsibility as a politician or a government if one hastens such a process in a way so that ambiguities remain. It is precisely this responsibility that the government has taken on. We have ensured that everyone has had an opportunity to speak about the various parts and have asked questions that have been referred. Parts have been communicated and, as I said, it has been important to ensure the support of municipalities in this matter. Of course, I myself have also had a dialogue with them since I took office. After all, we are now in a position where we will put our foot down and make decisions. It will provide planning conditions for the future, which is of course the most important thing in this case. I would also like to say something to those who listen to hear something about the continuing process. There will be opportunities for the government to impose conditions on the future of, for example, further experiments and further research on, among other things, the strength of copper capsules in the event of a positive decision. It is one of the things that has been up for further discussion. Finally, I would like to say that we are here now. Of course, we will continue to face challenges in the future. After a possible positive government decision, the process will go back to court. Further decisions will then have to be taken in the construction, test operation and in the event of permanent operation. So we have a long process ahead of us. Nevertheless, I am pleased if we in Sweden can now put our foot down to give further planning conditions on such an incredibly important issue as how to deal with the final disposal of our nuclear fuel, not least given that nuclear power, as I said, will probably be an important part of our energy mix for a number of years to come.
i-40e824a931dd3918-696	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Government mentioned that the government decision is not an end point. Many further trials will also take place in Sweden. That's part of our criticism. You would have had to make this decision earlier in order for the other processes to get started and to be able to finish with the date that we know is crucial for us to be able to get a repository. This is important to have said. If I interpret the Minister for Climate and the Environment correctly, we have different views on nuclear power, and that may be the case. But it is a good thing – it can be said – that the government has now presented a timetable for the disposal, although we have only learned from this debate that a decision will be taken. That's good, though. It has not been an easy process to get here, and the opposition has, as I said, pushed the government before us. Much time has been wasted, and it has been harmful. If we are to achieve the goal of reducing emissions in Sweden, a fossil-free energy system is required. The government has said that nuclear power will play a role in the future as well. Then important decisions like this cannot be dealt with like this. I hope the government has learned something from the process. When it comes to important decisions for the future and about Sweden's energy system, a more flexible treatment is required. In my opinion, it is not responsible to have such a lengthy process as this has been, given the investigations that are on the table with the government. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate and wish the Minister for Climate and Environment a Merry Christmas.
i-40e824a931dd3918-701	Madam President, I would like I am sure that me and Jessika Roswall will come back here to debate and discuss similar issues on several occasions in the future. As I said, it has been very important for the government to have a broad basis for being able to put down its foot and make decisions on the matter. Persons and organisations who do not consider that the application should be accepted have had the opportunity to make their views known on the matter. The public has also had an opportunity to comment on SKB's application. We have sought the views of expert authorities and external organisations. The basis is broad, and we will now consider whether the application can be accepted. It feels good that the government can give various stakeholders a message and planning conditions for the future. With this I wish Jessika Roswall a Merry Christmas.
i-40e824a931dd3918-705	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I have been made aware that the order of the Swedish Agency for Growth is such that those who have been mistreated and waited for a very long time now also suffer additional processing times, and whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that affected entrepreneurs can receive the promised support more quickly. For large parts of society, the transmission of the Corona virus has brought great difficulties and challenges and, as you know, we are still in a serious situation. Many industries, businesses and entrepreneurs have suffered financially as a result of the virus. The government therefore very quickly introduced a series of support measures to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic for businesses. We also did so in close cooperation with the social partners and representatives of professional organisations. The measures include the strengthening of short-term support. Since its introduction, the Swedish Agency for Growth has paid out short-term support for 600 000 employees. In connection with the increase in the spread of infection, the Government has announced that we are budgeting to be able to reintroduce the regular conversion aid, but also a turnover aid to individual traders and trading companies. In addition, the event support will be extended until 31 March 2022. In the case of short-term work support, the Council has announced that it is preparing a legislative change so that the withdrawal period for short-term support can be suspended, so that employers who have received support during the pandemic can apply for the regular short-term support if necessary. In March 2020, 450 people worked at the Swedish Agency for Growth. N u, in December 2021, 1 300 people work at the agency. D is almost a triple of the agency's staff to manage the mission of support for short-term work. The Authority will review whether it is possible to increase staffing or to implement other measures that increase the pace of management of the aid. R egeringen has on several occasions provided the Swedish Agency for Growth with the means to make it possible to manage the support during short-term work as efficiently as possible. We have given the Authority the resources it has requested to manage the mission. T illväxtverket is an independent authority with its own responsibility for interpreting and applying the regulations. The rules on support for short-term work have been applied for the first time in the context of the pandemic. For this reason, practices have also had to be developed in the courts. Furthermore, the aid has been applied to an extent that was not foreseen when the legislation was originally drawn up. The government has therefore set up a committee to review the support for short-term work. The aim is to learn lessons on how support has worked during the pandemic and to explore how the regulatory framework can be improved for the future. The review continues to closely monitor the economic impact of the pandemic on businesses and continuously analyses the need for the necessary measures for business.
i-40e824a931dd3918-712	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply and would like to welcome him to the House. I have chosen to write this interpellation after hearing horror stories, Madam President, about how entrepreneurs are still being abused by the system. Earlier this year it became clear that the Swedish Agency for Growth has repeatedly made wrong decisions regarding short-term support to companies under the coronapandemine. This has also attracted quite a bit of media attention. One of these errors concerns the so-called comparative month, which is used to determine the level of remuneration of the employees of an applicant company. The agency uses the wrong month and does not comply with the law, according to both the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. In a debate in the spring of this House with the former Minister for Economic Affairs, I asked how to ensure that entrepreneurs would receive their money and that the authority would promptly pay out the subsidies and the timetable for this. I was then given a reply to the fact that the Swedish Agency for Growth had received more money, another 265 million, in appropriations to reduce, among other things, the processing times, and that more people had been recruited. That is also the answer I get from the new Minister for Economic Affairs – now they have recruited even more people and got even more money. But now it has turned out that entrepreneurs who have been given the right in court have been referred back to the Swedish Agency for Growth, where they then got new administrators. The duration of proceedings is several months. So you start over again, which means they have to keep waiting for their money, to which they are entitled. It is the authority that has done the wrong thing, Madam President. These entrepreneurs are waiting for money. In March, an entrepreneur with whom I spoke just now will have waited two years for the money. I'll get back to that entrepreneur. If I've done something wrong, I usually want to correct it quickly. In this case, it's running out of time. How is it going to take so long? I wonder, and I would like the Minister to respond to that. Several entrepreneurs started spinning their businesses again, but it has gotten worse since I wrote this interpellation. Many entrepreneurs in the restaurant business, for example, believed that the Christmas dinner season would help but have received large cancellations. Of course, the travel industry is also vulnerable, as many are afraid to travel. Madam President, I would like It's a lot of money to sleep with too many people, and it gets harder the longer it takes. As I said, some have been waiting for two years. Of course, there was new support at the government press conference this morning, but this is about money that companies should have received long ago. If I borrow money from someone, I'd like to return it quickly. In this case, entrepreneurs have been brought to justice. Yet the authorities have not paid out the money. It's almost criminal. Even if the agency has received more money, everything does not seem to be quite right. No more money or more staff seems to solve the problem. How can it be that these entrepreneurs have been affected by additional processing times? These entrepreneurs have been mistreated by the authority, and they have been brought to justice. How does the new minister intend to ensure that they receive their promised money quickly?
i-40e824a931dd3918-721	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexandra Anstrell for the opportunity to speak in the Chamber for the first time. It feels very solemn, I must honestly admit, and a little nervous too, although I have been in many speaking chairs before. I simply believe that it is the volume and number of applications that have created the problem. The preparatory work on short-term work took place before the pandemic, following the major crisis in 2008-2009. I myself had negotiations with the then government, with Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg, to introduce short-term study support as extra protection alongside the a-cassage system to cope with major economic downturns. We could 2008 – 2009 never dream of such disturbances as we have seen in the labour market during the pandemic that struck us in spring 2020. When the government planned short-term study support under the Reinfeldt government, it was said that volumes of up to 10,000 people could be covered. Already in March 2020 it was very clear that that bar was nowhere near the support needed. In a very short time, a lot of applications were received. I must say, however, that we must be quite satisfied with the way in which the authorities coped with this storm. This applies not only to short-term aid, but also to many other aid which has come gradually. Alexandra Anstrell is clearly right that this must go to legal certainty and that those who have been brought to justice must quickly be brought to justice. On several occasions, the Ministry of Industry has raised this matter with the relevant authority. As Alexandra Anstrell pointed out, the Riksdag has also, on several occasions, provided more resources for hiring staff. I think you're on the right track. Electronic and digitised systems are about to solve the problem. But it is not comforting to those who have not received their money for a very long time. They are entitled to them if the court has said so. We will continue to follow the matter very closely. Since the interpellation comes from Moderate Alexandra Anstrell, I can mention one thing that I am happy about. For a long time we had a situation in Parliament where the Moderates were very hesitant to introduce short-term support. Now it sounds like it has become everyday for the Moderates too that we should be able to protect companies in the event of large fluctuations. I welcome this, because I believe that we will benefit greatly in the future.
i-40e824a931dd3918-726	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the developed response. The minister doesn't have to be nervous. I've still had some gingerbread today. We will continue to follow the matter very closely– this is a kind of statement that I almost always get started on. Nevertheless, I had hoped that a new minister would have been able to show a little more action than to say that he should follow things. Following things usually does not lead to improvements. Many industries are vulnerable, especially the hotel and restaurant industry, which we have already been into. There you find it difficult to walk around your businesses if no one eats and no one travels. The entrepreneur Lotta at Sigtunahöjden, a meeting facility in Sigtuna, says that the cancellations fall in, while interest, amortisation and more are required by the bank. She now knows that quarter one will be largely lost. She says that they are still waiting for almost 300 000 in lay-off support from the Swedish Agency for Growth. They have lost half their turnover to the normal situation and have had to halve their staff. It is told from quite a few quarters how complicated everything is about the support that the government has decided on. There is a wish that the Swedish Agency for Growth has nothing to do with the support and that all support administration should be added to the Swedish Tax Agency, and that all administration should be greatly reduced and simplified. This is something that we moderates always fight for – we need to simplify the regulatory framework, so that entrepreneurs can be entrepreneurs. It's still where the jobs are created. An important part also seems to be that you have to be able to talk to your administrator. I spoke at lunch with an entrepreneur who told me she had no case officer. She is one of those who would have received money almost two years ago but still has no case handler on her case that has come back. If you call there, you are referred to a public telephone support that has no authority or knowledge of your case. Therefore, they still do not know when this matter will be cleared up. An entrepreneur tells how difficult she is. She owns the property where she conducts her business, and then she does not have the right to raise the rent as a fixed cost in the conversion allowance. It forces the real estate company to provide excessive rent discounts to save the operating company, while the real estate company has to stand back and postpone necessary maintenance and renovations. If the real estate company also receives part of the rental subsidy, it shall be deducted from the operating company's conversion aid, even though the operating company has not received the rent as a fixed cost from the beginning. Madam President, I would like This is a little woozy. It is understandable that many entrepreneurs find it difficult. I think it's complicated. There will be an element 22 in many cases. It's not just this that's twisted. Jannica, who runs a travel staff company, applied for support, was rejected because of the comparative month, got right in court, ended up at the Swedish Agency for Growth again and is now balled between new different administrators. As long as the matter remains unmanaged with the Swedish Agency for Growth, she cannot apply for more aid periods, so she cannot get her promised money out. Nor can she seek new ones, even though it is the authority that has done the wrong thing. So here we are punishing good entrepreneurs. It's like you're baxing! I would like to pay tribute to all entrepreneurs who are able to continue working despite all these complicated rules. This really needs to be reviewed. It is a major challenge with all the administration around the support. Too many authorities involved seem to make things too messy. I wonder if the Minister does not agree that it should come together in one place so that the application processes can be coordinated. Would it not be appropriate to gather entrepreneurs and see how this can be better resolved? As I said, four out of five jobs are created in small and medium-sized companies. We need these entrepreneurs. We need to listen to them because they're smart.
i-40e824a931dd3918-737	Madam President, I would like I share the view that we must do this in close cooperation with the industry, and I have already had a meeting with the industry, which essentially thinks that short-term aid has worked well. Of course, there are individual cases that have been caught up, and there has also been, as Alexandra Anstrell knows, a major debate about cheating when companies have taken out short-term support. A few months in, too, there was a tightening up of the regulatory framework after far too many cases of cheating. It must be legal in both directions, and it is well after that tightening up that most of the problems described today by Alexandra Anstrell have come up. Again, I want to say that this is something that we have talked a lot about with the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Swedish Agency for Growth has signed and returned with demands for new resources in order to increase staffing. They have also succeeded in doing so gradually. As Alexandra Anstrell says, the pandemic is far from over, and I am very pleased that this morning we were able to present an agreement between the Social Democrats and the Moderates to reintroduce some of the support that has been very helpful to companies during the pandemic. The turnover support has perhaps been the most accurate of all the support we have implemented. Unlike many other countries, we have managed to save tens of thousands of jobs, just as Alexandra Anstrell points out, because the government and parliament managed to be so flexible in these forms of support in close cooperation. But it is clear that if you develop a new regulatory framework for a few hours, a new form of support without proper documentation and without proper preparation it will not always be right. In my previous role, I was often asked about this in the spring of 2020, for example about the possibility of short-term work during dismissal. For a union leader like me at the time, it was an impossible thought. But it was simply to save these employers from bankruptcy. As I said, we are assessing how short-term aid has worked over time. I think it will show that very many jobs and very many people were protected by it, and I think there is reason to come back. We have already announced new rules so that we can take back the varence on short-term aid in order to be able to use this too if the pandemic deepens again, something we heard about here this morning. I hope that we can continue close and good cooperation. Of course, we should ensure that it is legally secure so that no one has to wait for their support longer than the courts say. It goes without saying; it has to be so. If I'm going to give you some strong words to follow, it's that I'm going to make sure that's the case for those entrepreneurs who haven't got their resources yet.
i-40e824a931dd3918-744	Madam President, I would like I know that many entrepreneurs are listening to the debate. Of course, they will be in touch to tell us whether this has gone well, that this should not only be followed but that it should be dealt with. For their sake, I hope that this happens very quickly, because they are really in trouble. The Minister explains in several speeches that there are now more people employed at the Swedish Agency for Growth. Yet the task is not solved. Now we have heard that the Minister is going to ensure that this is going to happen quickly. It feels a bit like the authority is poaching this money, if you can say so in this House, and does not want to pay it out. Or is there something else wrong with the process of an authority that takes too long? As I said, it is not just money or people helping in this case. Madam President, I would like This week I have had the privilege of having an absolutely amazing praoelelev, Felicia, who sits here listening. One of the questions she asks herself in this is: The pandemic has been going on for a long time, almost two full years. The Minister says that the aid has been applied for the first time and that practice is still under development. But two years is still enough time to develop and improve aid, at least to remove such fundamental problems? A committee to review how it has worked is good, but sometimes you need to learn here and now and not after the pandemic. To conclude, I would like to ask the Minister what the future prospects are, for example regarding vaccine passports that create opportunities for people to move around and for entrepreneurs to keep their activities going. This is a controversial subject; we can see that not least in our email baskets. But would it not be easier and better to prevent the spread of infection from introducing covid passports in general for some time?
i-40e824a931dd3918-749	Madam President, I would like I will be too good to get into exactly what protection measures should look like to combat the spread of infection in Sweden. We have experts who consult with the government on this. However, I can say that our really very successful strategy has always been to try to keep Sweden as open as possible. In my role as Minister of Enterprise, there is one thing I fight for every day, because I think it has served Sweden very well. When we travel around Europe and meet colleagues, we hear that many people have suffered much worse from the pandemic than we have in Sweden. Then, of course, I am thinking of the fact that companies have successfully coped with the pandemic thanks to all the forms of support that Alexandra Anstrell spoke about before. I believe that this is a lesson for the future: to do everything possible to reduce the spread of infection without shutting down society. I think that's worked out well. Then, of course, it is very difficult to assess how emikrona will hit in the spring, and I think we will have to come back several times with additional forms of support to ensure that the business community keeps going and save jobs also longer. Now it's two years. Nobody thought this would last more than a few months. I remember the first hearing. At that time, I negotiated as LO President with the government, and we said that the end date for all aid would be 31 May 2020. That's what we thought then. Today, just now, almost two years after the pandemic began, we have told you about new support measures. We should be glad that we have passed that period well, and we will help each other in the government and parliament. We have had a very good cooperation in the field of covid control and to keep society open so that we can continue to have good growth in companies and save as many jobs as possible. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Alexandra Anstrell and the President a Merry Christmas.
i-40e824a931dd3918-756	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked Khashayar Farmanbar if he believes that Swedish nuclear power should be classified as sustainable within the framework of the so-called taxonomy, what measures he intends to take to live up to and comply with the mandate given by the Swedish Parliament to the government that Swedish and European nuclear power should be classified as sustainable in taxonomy, and whether he intends to enter into partnerships with more countries, and in that case which, to jointly pursue the view that nuclear power should be classified as sustainable in taxonomy. The interpellation has been handed over to me. It is important to ensure a safe transition of the energy system. The technical review criteria to be used to determine the conditions under which nuclear power is to be considered sustainable in the EU's green taxonomy shall be laid down in delegated acts to the EU Green Taxonomy Regulation. The Regulation sets out a number of requirements for the design of the review criteria, including compliance with the principle of technology neutrality. The government believes that this principle is important to maintain and monitor. All fossil-free technologies that have the potential to contribute to the achievement of our common climate targets and meet strict environmental and safety requirements should be able to be included in taxonomy and be subject to the review criteria. On this basis, the government believes that nuclear power can be included within taxonomics. This does not mean that nuclear power is automatically seen as sustainable. Another requirement that the Regulation imposes on the criteria is that they should be based on unambiguous scientific evidence and based on a precautionary principle. The government considers it important to monitor this aspect as well. During the autumn, the Government presented Sweden's view of nuclear energy in various contexts within the EU and the importance of safeguarding the conditions of nuclear power in taxonomy, including at meetings in the ECOFIN Council in November and December. The Government is working both tactically and strategically to maximise Swedish influence over the ongoing processes within the framework of the EU taxonomy. The government continuously assesses the best way forward to have an impact on Swedish positions, including possible partnerships. The government has contacts with several other countries on this issue, including Finland and France.
i-40e824a931dd3918-761	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Welcome to the Chamber! The answer renders a number of supplementary questions. Let me first say a few words about why we are discussing this issue today, although we have done so several times before. In my last debate with Annika Strandhäll, I said that nuclear power today accounts for one third of our electricity production. Electricity production will double by 2045. Our common goal is to reduce our emissions by at least 55% by 2045. One more thing I think we can agree on is that the Government, certainly in its previous role, and the Government has on a number of occasions recognised that nuclear power is and will remain an important part of our energy supply. I think we agree so far. The EU is working on a variety of proposals on how to achieve the objectives. One of the tools is the taxonomy regulation, i.e. how to classify different investments. The crux of the debate today is how to classify nuclear power. Some types of energy are already classified within taxonomy, and just as the Government said, it is a delegated act. It is reported that this will come next week, and we will see what it says. There have been many tours in the Swedish Parliament. Let me remind you that the activity of the government has not been as high as that of the Swedish Parliament, or mildly put it weak. The Moderates have persistently argued that European and Swedish nuclear power should be classified as sustainable investment, and we have on several occasions called on the government to join forces with other Member States, such as France and Finland. Now, in its response, the Government said that it has contacts with other Member States – well so. But what does that mean? There's a double message from the government. I wonder how, in these good relations, the other Member States view our view. The government did not sign the joint letter that ten other Member States did. I believe that the Swedish Government has failed within the EU to pursue issues that are important and relevant to Sweden. What do contacts mean? Can the Government answer why they didn't sign the letter? Lars Helmered's interpellation is even more important today than when it was written. In the last few days, I've been trying to understand what the government is saying. We have had an open hearing with the Prime Minister and then a report. There the Prime Minister has stated – as the Government says here today – that nuclear power can be included in the taxonomy, but you cannot say how it should be classified. I can't get those parts together, and I think that's true for a lot of others with me. The interpellant has written in the interpellation that the EU Joint Research Centre and two other EU institutions have been clear that there is no scientific support for nuclear power not to be classified as sustainable – I know that many do not want to – but I think the Government understands. Nuclear power is no more harmful than other technologies considered by the regulatory framework to be sustainable. There is no doubt that nuclear power should be classified as sustainable. I do not think the government is clear in its response. I therefore ask the question again: should nuclear power be classified as sustainable?
i-40e824a931dd3918-772	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Roswall for allowing us to have this discussion. I'll start with what I said earlier. The government's view is that nuclear power can be included in taxonomics, and taxonomics compiles activities that are sustainable. It is clear that it is in the nature of the matter that taxonomics will establish a number of technical review criteria for the economic activities linked to nuclear energy. This includes the mining of uranium, which is a fuel necessary for the operation of nuclear power. It also includes the management of waste. The technical review criteria must be based on a scientific basis and on what is technologically neutral. Next, you have to decide whether the whole business is sustainable. This is an issue that the Commission is currently dealing with, and there are many indications that they will come back on 22 December. Then we will find out how they have compiled the technical review criteria. We look forward to this with great interest. It is quite right that the government has championed the views that have been communicated by, among other things, the Committee on Finance of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. Not least, I've done it myself. Last night, if I am not mistaken, the Prime Minister was there to express this view. It is the channel that exists to promote Sweden's views. In this respect, the activity has been very good. With all this said, we can say – and Roswall did so initially – that we agree on the importance of nuclear power working well in Sweden. It is an important source of electricity and has an important role to play in the transition. It is a view that the government has been putting forward for some time. Having said all that, I think I have answered the questions I have been asked. But I can add a question. I share Mrs Roswall's assessment that we agree on this issue. What do we disagree on?
i-40e824a931dd3918-777	Madam President, I would like We don't agree on how to do it ourselves. My biggest problem today, following the various meetings with the Prime Minister ahead of the European Council, is that I am not quite clear on what the government is saying. It is said that one can imagine that nuclear power will be included in taxonomy, but, as the Government says, it does not mean that it will be classified as sustainable because there are a number of technical rules. On the moderate side, we say – and many other Member States say this – that nuclear power should be classified as sustainable. The question is how. How does the government think nuclear power should be classified? We believe that it should be classified as sustainable, together with several other expert authorities. Another problematic part of Sweden's position that is addressed in Lars Helmered's interpellation – thanks for allowing me to be here, but it is thanks to Lars Helmered that Minister Elger can be here today – is that the government sends these two messages. This means that other Member States do not have confidence in Sweden's opinion, and that in itself is very bad. That we have achieved this is also because the point of the taxonomy framework is to classify which types of energy are sustainable and climate-friendly. The regulatory framework is based on a life cycle perspective for products and production to determine whether the energy used to produce a product is to be considered sustainable or not. I wonder if the government sees this connection. It's unfortunate if you don't. There are also many statements from the business community that point to the fact that this political uncertainty creates total uncertainty. Add to that the confusion that I think the government is now showing. So I wonder if the government sees the link between the life cycle perspective and energy production. Then I hope I answered the question of what distinguishes between the Moderates and the Government, that is, we believe that nuclear power should be classified as sustainable.
i-40e824a931dd3918-784	Madam President, I would like I thank you for that clarification response. However, that is not how the regulation works. Activities are included in the taxonomy regulation, but then it is necessary to examine the various activities and whether or not they are carried out in a sustainable manner. To be very clear: it is not clear that all nuclear power in the world is sustainable. It may be that it is done a little better in some places than in other places. That is why we will have these technical review criteria, which will determine whether the activities associated with nuclear power are sustainable. But the government's opinion is clear. I think I'd disagree there. There are no double messages sent here. We believe that nuclear energy is important, and we believe that it can be included in taxonomy. This is a view that we have expressed in the various bodies of the European Union for a long time.
i-40e824a931dd3918-787	Madam President, I would like What we have said is that European and Swedish nuclear power should and should be classified as sustainable within the framework of taxonomy. As I said, we are not alone. As I understand it from media reporting, that was why, among other things, there was no agreement on the energy issue. Now this is not a re-report, Madam President, but that is why the Heads of Government failed to agree on the energy yesterday, last night, unclear what time it was. I think it's sad. I maintain that this is a dual message. One thing is said in Brussels, but another thing here and a little bit of double at different meetings. We have an opinion in the EU Council and an opinion in Parliament's Chamber. I also find that problematic. The second question is why the government cannot say this. It is said that nuclear power will be needed in the long term – then we must also be able to create competitive, long-term rules for those who want to invest in nuclear energy. I would also like to know what the government is basing its decisions on. I told you what the Moderates have based their decision on – among other things, that two different EU institutions and the EU's own research centre are clear that nuclear power can be classified as sustainable. Finally, Madam President, I would like to return to our climate targets. Although we agree on certain elements, I believe that the government owes the answer to how we should achieve our goals if we do not allow investments in sustainable fossil-free nuclear energy. We have a fantastic industrial sector in Sweden, which is at the forefront of our transformation. It is also necessary for politics to provide clear answers, and I do not think that the government has succeeded in doing so. The clock is ticking. Thank you very much for the debate, Minister Elger. Merry Christmas, Prime Minister and Madam President!
i-40e824a931dd3918-794	Madam President, I would like I take up where we started, when we found that we were in agreement in all essential respects. The view of the expert bodies that Roswall is now referring to is also the view of the government, that nuclear power can be included in taxonomy. That is the view we are pursuing, and we are now looking forward with great interest to the Commission's analyses and the technical review criteria laid down. I do not see any major difference in substance. Unfortunately, the fact that the views of this House and the European Council have differed slightly on this matter is not something for which the government can be blamed, but I assume that those who are active in these bodies are dealing with them themselves. I have every respect for that process. Thank you for this discussion. It was very nice and fun to be here. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Jessika Roswall and the President Merry Christmas. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: Thank you very much for that greeting! I wish you both the same. A big and warm thank you also to those of you sitting next door in this, may we say, late hour! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to all of you! )
