i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-31	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Social Affairs, which deals only with the covid-19 pandemic. There are a total of 120 requests that we Members of Parliament wrote during the autumn's general exercise in September last year. The proposals reflect the experience we had at the time. I am pleased, for example, that the government has listened to our request to secure a working pharmaceutical insurance for all the vaccines that come into play. It is essential that it is in place as part of ensuring safe and effective vaccination. It is also gratifying that the government has listened to our demands for improved access to protective equipment in the care sector. We have also highlighted in this House that assistance providers should be covered by the reimbursement of covid-19-related costs, as is now the case. Madam President, I would like Other things have not been done but they are urgent and urgent. Let me come back to this. But first a few words about the difficulty of navigating when a whole world is affected by a new virus. The Corona virus sars-cov-2 was unknown to most of us in January 2020. Today we know much more, but constantly new knowledge comes about how the virus behaves and how it mutates and how the disease covid-19 develops and is to be treated in the best way. The combination of the pandemic putting health care under severe pressure, the death toll rate being far too high and the rapid development of knowledge demands that we can determine strategy and act in real time. Transparency is then a crucial element in the crisis management process. This is in order for the public, but also we parties in opposition, to have confidence in the measures proposed by the authorities and the government. If we do not get the evidence and the reasons behind the advice and recommendations given, there is a risk that compliance will be reduced and therefore a risk that the spread of infection will not be adequately prevented. During the first part of the pandemic, it was not public how many intensive care places we had in the country. This was partly due to the lack of national information on such matters in a system of 21 autonomous regions. But it was also said that that information was sensitive for security reasons and therefore could not be made public. This was eventually changed, and important daily information was given on how many places were needed for covid patients to be treated together with other intensive care patients, but also on how many places we had as a buffer. I think that increased understanding of the consequence of covid-19 when we saw how health care was repeatedly forced to change to create more intensive care places and when we saw how much of the places were occupied by covid-19 patients. My view is that it is relevant for all of us to have that kind of knowledge and other knowledge to understand the healthcare challenges during the pandemic. In the same way, it was good that the government responded to the demands of the Christian Democrats and other parties at the beginning of March last year for better national communication from the Public Health Authority to the public. At that time, in early March, one had to scroll deep down on the agency's website before finding anything about the new virus. It all gave the impression that it was not so important. But the government listened, and the daily press conferences were introduced by a government decision. It was an unusual but wise decision because one of the most important elements in dealing with a pandemic is that the public has access to information in a reliable and easily accessible way. Madam President, I would like There has been a recurring struggle between the different parts of the issue of responsibility. It has been unclear whether several different decisive actions would be managed by the regions and municipalities individually or whether the state would be responsible for national coordination. We Christian Democrats are pleased that the government has heeded some of the proposals regarding increased national coordination that we have made in connection with the letters we submit to the government when party leaders gather for talks with the Prime Minister. For example, the National Board of Health and Welfare was given a national responsibility to ensure access to protective equipment and to coordinate the need for intensive care places across the country. But we Christian Democrats believe that the government needs to make more decisions in order to increase national responsibility. It is unreasonable for 21 different regions and 290 different municipalities to have to find their own solutions when we are in the midst of a burning global crisis. For example, we have lacked a national plan for testing and detection of infection. There have all too often been discussions between the government and the regions on what has been decided. The responsibility for this lies with both parties, but ultimately it is the government that governs the kingdom and must ensure that testing and contamination detection is carried out to an adequate extent. Today, according to government data, we have about twice the capacity for testing compared to the capacity used. We need to use the full national capacity to break both the general spread of society and the cluster centres that we see emerging at the moment. I therefore urge that our reservation No 1 on a national plan for testing and detection of infection be examined by the House. This is a very important part of the work that must now be done throughout the year, not least in view of the various mutations of the virus that exist. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me highlight another area that requires greater commitment from all of us. This is about all those affected by what is called long-term covid. Special resources have been made available for this, but much more is needed and in the near future. People are affected now and find it difficult to get the care and treatment they need. Many of them point to the need for cross-professional care, and the profession, the healthcare staff, asking for national guidelines and resources to be able to provide the right care. The National Board of Health and Welfare has promised national guidelines later this spring. I understand the problems of developing guidelines when there are no full-scale studies that can ensure evidence. But other countries have gone further, and we should be able to do more in the near future to help those affected by long-term covid. It is primarily about treatment but also about financial security through the social security system.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-46	Madam President, I would like More than 12 600 Swedes have so far died with covid-19. It's a terrible number and a terrible failure. We are still in the midst of the pandemic, and a third wave may well be imminent. At this point, of course, care should be taken to draw far-reaching conclusions about what has gone wrong. At the same time, all those responsible must learn from the mistakes that have been made in order for us to be able to correct shortcomings in the Swedish Corona Strategy and the Swedish Corona Management. This is literally vital, but the government's self-criticism unfortunately shines with its absence. A key part of the government's Corona strategy has been to protect the elderly. The ambition to protect the elderly is and has been quite right. Elderly people are at a very high risk of dying if they are infected with the virus that causes the disease covid-19. However, as the Corona Commission stated, the strategy of protecting the elderly has failed. According to the Commission, the failure is due to a wide range of factors. In particular, there are structural deficiencies in the care of the elderly in the form of, among other things, a fragmented organisation and the need for higher staffing and increased skills. These are shortcomings for which the government is ultimately responsible. It is the government that, according to its form of government, bears ultimate responsibility and governs the empire, the Commission reminds us. Furthermore, the Corona Commission points out that this spring it took far too long for attention to be paid to the particular problems and shortcomings of care for the elderly. The government and its authorities focused on health care. The care of the elderly was forgotten or at best secondary. Support and interventions aimed at elderly care came too late, and the large lack of protective equipment combined with the absence of clear guidelines led to an increased spread of infection, is the assessment. In this context, I would like to highlight the Moderates' proposal in this report to mandate the Inspection for Health and Care specifically to follow up and evaluate compliance with the recommendations for protective equipment. Madam President, I would like The basic reason why the strategy to protect the elderly has failed and why so many Swedes have died with covid-19 is the large general spread of infection in our society. For this failure too, responsibility rests heavily on the shoulders of the government. During the pandemic, the government has been slow and reactive instead of fast-footed and proactive. This must not be repeated now, in the face of a third wave. We Moderates therefore demand that the government better prepare Sweden. A concrete action plan for a third wave is urgently needed. Among other things, we want to see clearer requirements for masks and more rules instead of recommendations. Absolutely central is also testing and detecting more and better. On the part of the Moderates, we call for greater coordination and more national leadership. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have stated, among other things, that Sweden needs a national coherent strategy for testing, detection and isolation, which is exactly what Acko Ankarberg Johansson has just mentioned. This continues, despite the fact that we have been living with the pandemic for over a year now. That is why, Madam President, I would like to support reservation 1. We therefore continue to see major problems and serious deficiencies in the most basic disease control work. Regions, for example, have repeatedly warned of a lack of infection detection, and Sweden still lacks a path to infection. The use of antigen tests, rapid tests, is low, although they have proved to be a good tool to prevent so-called asymptomatic spread of infection. With rapid tests, people who are infected but do not show symptoms can be caught up before, for example, they start a shift in care for the elderly or in health care. Sweden should also sequence significantly more positive covid-19 test results to better track the presence of the various new virus mutations. It is only in this way that we can have the basis for decision-making that we need in order to be able to take strong and correct measures to prevent the proliferation of mutations in time. The mistakes of spring must not be repeated. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have also fought for disease control measures to go hand in hand with financial compensation for victims. The Moderates' message is clear: we will stop the infection but save jobs and businesses. When the government late submitted its proposal for a Pandemic Act to the Riksdag, we made our support conditional on the requirement that companies and businesses affected by measures should receive financial compensation under the new Act. Last week, the government presented a shutdown regulation supported by the Pandemic Act to allow for far-reaching shutdowns if necessary. First of all, it is remarkable that the government has only acquired one year into the pandemic the powers it should have had a long time ago. Secondly, it is remarkable that, when the regulation was presented, the government did not at the same time provide information on how companies and others who are financially affected should receive compensation. I would therefore like to remind the government and the government parties here of Parliament's demand that affected activities be replaced. Madam President, I would like This speech is perhaps one of the most serious I have had in this House. But the situation is serious, and the Moderates' criticism of the government is extensive. At the same time, there is a light in the tunnel: vaccine. Rapid and successful vaccination can save lives, businesses and jobs, but requires that the regions receive promised supplies of vaccines as well as that the population is well informed and willing to be vaccinated. That is why a broad information campaign needs to be launched now.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-60	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the covid-19 pandemic and issues relating to this area. That is why I would first of all like to thank the health care and care staff who have done great work during this difficult time. Without their efforts, the care would not have worked. Thank you again! Madam President, I would like I'll take you with me for a brief review of the Corona year that has passed. On 28 February last year, the Minister of Social Affairs on the radio said that Sweden is well prepared for a possible corona outbreak. On 11 March, the first death of this virus was found in Sweden. Now, almost a year after the statement by the Minister for Social Affairs, nearly 13 000 people have died of covid-19 in Sweden. How could it go so wrong? Since the start of the pandemic, Sweden has had higher death rates than the other Nordic countries. Last spring, the high death toll was explained by the fact that the disease had entered retirement homes. Now, a year later, there is the same tendency. Sweden continues to stand out with high death rates compared to other Nordic countries. Three out of four deaths of covid-19 in the Nordic countries are Swedes. The Government and the Swedish Public Health Agency's strategy was to protect at all costs the risk groups from being infected. It was especially important to prevent the infection from entering the country's retirement homes. It is now clear that it has failed in a disastrous way and that both the staff and the elderly have had to pay a high price. For many who work or have worked in the care of the elderly, this did not come as a surprise. It was probably only the government and possibly responsible authorities that did not see this coming. For decades, the number of places in retirement homes has been cut, which has meant that only the most fragile have had the opportunity to move into these homes. It should also be borne in mind that retirement homes are not built to prevent infection. We know, for example, how difficult they are to prevent the annual winter freckle disease and other infections from entering and spreading between the housing departments. When the government allowed a higher spread of infection in society than was done in our Nordic neighbours, this could only be a disaster. The fact that this came as a surprise to the government is to many completely incomprehensible. The government's slowness in the functioning of measures and the authorities' lack of clarity as to which protective equipment would be used is a contributing factor to the development of high mortality rates in elderly care. This is also confirmed in the Corona Commission's first report. There they criticise the government and the authorities in their handling of the Corona virus. The measures taken by the government and the authorities to protect the elderly came too late and were insufficient, according to the Commission. The national restraining order was imposed by the Government on 1 April. By then already 90 municipalities had confirmed or suspected cases of infected cases on their accommodations around the country. Other Nordic countries introduced restraining orders considerably earlier. Denmark imposed a restraining order on retirement homes already on 18 March. It is with great sadness and shame that the elderly paid the price and that it was high. The ones that were supposed to be most protected were the least protected. In fact, it is clear that in many cases Sweden has acted too slowly. Testing started way too late. The policy of infectious detection and isolation of infected people was far too lax. Work on the Pandemic Act started too late. Recommendations on public transport mouthguards only came into force in January. Madam President, I would like It is important to determine who is responsible for the errors that have been made. This is important not least for all the thousands of relatives who have lost someone close to them, but also for this tragedy never to happen again. The Corona Commission is clear about who is responsible. The government rules the kingdom. Therefore, ultimate responsibility rests with this government and previous governments. Madam President, I would like Now we're probably facing a third wave. The spread of infection is again increasing in most regions. In addition, we must deal with the mutated virus, which is apparently present in most regions. The situation is very, very serious and we must not repeat the mistakes made last spring. It is now important for municipalities and regions to have the tools to push back the spread of infection as much as possible, but also for the government to use the new Pandemic Act, so that it will not be as in the spring with the temporary amendment of the Anti-Contagion Act. It gave the government the opportunity to take action, but it chose not to act despite the fact that some 500 people died a week between 18 April and 30 June. But it is also a question, Madam President, of preventing more people from suffering from long-term illness. Thousands of Swedes have already suffered long-term symptoms after a covid-19 infection, and it will be a challenge for Swedish healthcare to meet all these patients and to give them the right help. Sweden needs clear guidelines for investigation, treatment and rehabilitation in long-term covid-19. More resources are also needed for research into the long-term effects of the disease. But, Madam President, we must also do as in Denmark and the United Kingdom: set up special receptions for those – both children and adults – who have suffered long-term symptoms. It is extremely important to quickly catch up with these patients. Then, hopefully, we can minimize the effects of this devastating disease. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have initiated a special covid-1 9- motion with a total of 56 motions. But for time winning, I'm going to claim approval only for our reservation 23.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-77	Madam President, I would like So what we are debating today is the result of a number of motions, which were submitted during the general period of exercise, dealing precisely with covid-19. When you read the report you can see that it was a completely different time when the motions were written. The spread of infection had decreased after the first wave. There were quite a few infected. Now the situation is completely different. The latest figure for the number of deaths with covid-19 is 12 649. It's a figure that's actually pretty hard to understand. Instead, the concept of excess mortality is used to compare over time and, above all, with other countries. You can look at that number in Sweden. So you should go back to the years when the Spanish flu grazed to find an equally serious situation. We have also seen a number of people affected by chronic covid-19. So it is when after the infection you get very, very long-term symptoms. As many as 10 percent of those who have gone through a covid-19 infection may suffer from chronic covid-19. There are, of course, the economic consequences that this has had for our country. A large number of companies in the transport sector, the tourism industry and, not least, the restaurant industry have been severely affected. Something that has been consistent during this first year, I think, is that we in Sweden, and above all the government, have constantly been one step behind. Take such an important thing as testing! In relation to other countries it took a long time before we in Sweden got started seriously with the testing. We now see that in other countries rapid tests are used on a very large scale. Even there we are behind. Rapid tests have shortcomings, but they could still be an important tool to repress the infection. The infection tracking didn't start as it was supposed to, and we still have problems there. When you talk to infectious diseases doctors and are involved in the detection of infection around Sweden, they describe in many ways a rather difficult situation. This is not national coordination. An infectious tracker said: It's always these regional boundaries. As soon as I trace the infection to a county border, like the sheriff of the Wild West, I have to stop and wait for them to come from the other side and pick up. This would not have to be the case in Sweden. We have problems with legislation. Already in the spring, we discovered that we did not have effective legislation in Sweden to combat a pandemic. The CDC was simply not enough. It was designed to combat isolated cases of chlamydia or salmonella, not tens of thousands infected in a pandemic. Here we from the Center Party have been going on properly, and we got the Riksdag with us during the autumn. It was only on 8 January, almost a year after the country was hit by the pandemic, that we in Parliament were able to decide on a pandemic law. And it is only now that the government has acquired the really effective tools to shut down parts of the business and be able to push back the pandemic – this will take effect in March. Vaccination has been another concern. It is clear that from the beginning somewhere the light in the tunnel was seen in the form of vaccination. But even though it was seen a long time ago, it was only in the New Year that we in Sweden got a working system for reporting vaccinations. The national vaccination register could of course have been in place considerably earlier. The information campaign has not started as it should. The order of priorities has left much to be desired – there are soon 21 different interpretations of priorities and not, Madam President. What may be most troubling is that there seems to be no plan B. We have seen that there have been delays in vaccine deliveries. There may be further delays, and then there must be a plan B. If there are delays in deliveries internationally, how can we vaccinate a great many people during May and June? There are a number of areas where, unfortunately, we have been one step behind. Another thing I have reacted to is the tendency to blame others all the time. We last heard it in Ekot's Saturday interview recently. There a minister with a completely different area of responsibility began to point out which regions had probably made a mistake. On behalf of the Center Party, we are prepared to take responsibility. We sit and control 200 of 290 municipalities. We are responsible for getting the Swedish elderly care in order, so that you can get sensible advanced health care at the retirement homes and should not have to go to an ambulance for an hour to an emergency room to lie on a bunk. We run in 19 of 21 regions. We are prepared to take responsibility there to ensure that we can manage both the pandemic and all the operations and actions that have been postponed to the future. We are prepared to take responsibility for keeping us one step ahead, because now, Madam President, the situation is serious. We have further mutations coming in. We stand in what is increasingly clear is the beginning of a third wave. We also have concerns about the vaccinations. Here, Madam President, it is important that we take responsibility together at all levels and, above all, that we continue in the time we have before we can push back the pandemic can finally make sure that we are one step ahead. I agree with the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but I choose to accept only reservation 14.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-95	Madam President, I would like Almost 13 000 deaths – and so many in care for the elderly, an elderly care that we should be ashamed of with hourly workers and lack of training, lack of management, lack of protective equipment and lack of medical care and geriatric receptions. Cutting in welfare over several mandates and governments costs, and during the pandemic it has cost lives. Madam President, I would like What is clear is that, in the next crisis, we must have national governance. Sweden's decentralised governance has made the fight against the pandemic more difficult. It must be possible to rapidly develop sampling systems, detection capacities and support for understaffed activities in order to provide the right care to severely ill people. Everything needs to get better. The government, the 21 regions – 13 of which are governed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats and 19 by the Center Party – 290 municipalities and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions with strong different political incentives – what was it like? Are you all right? I'm skeptical. In the next crisis, the government must create a political steering group with all parties, as in a war. We have had a strategy that has constantly changed and has looked at the whole of public health. If I don't recall, no party came up with its own strategy. However, we have dropped proposals along the way, and that is a good thing. It's not all wrong. It's not all right. The black and white discussions that have gone back and forth during the pandemic have to some extent been completely counterproductive and created a threat picture that we can now see against government officials, researchers and journalists. It's pretty bad, I think. Madam President, I would like Operating contingency plans and procedures must exist before a crisis breaks out. Too late and too little can't be the starting point. National stocks shall contain necessary articles that have sufficient durability – turnover stocks, as it is called. The question cannot be whether but rather how to build up national emergency preparedness stocks, because when the pandemic started there was no storage. The National Board of Health and Welfare's guidelines on access to consumables in health care in the event of crises were given priority by the regions, which I must say is absolutely inconspicuous, Madam President. Doctors at Södersjukhuset in Stockholm made visors of overhead paper. The care of the elderly lasted for at least one month without protective equipment. It is shameful that the large regions of Stockholm, Skåne and Västra Götaland that were hit so hard by the pandemic stood without stock and relied on the thesis just-in-time as any car factory. According to Ekot, Sweden's three largest regions lacked sufficient stocks when the pandemic broke out. The regions requested a sum of SEK 7.7 billion in compensation from the government last autumn, because that is the deal they have with the regions. 70% is about the purchase of protective equipment for health care personnel. Buying in protective equipment and other necessary items in the midst of the pandemic is expensive. The regions shall have a stock requirement to have at least pandemic stocks for three months' consumption. We should legislate on that. Madam President, I would like Crisis preparedness must also include possibilities for national production of protective equipment for health and social care personnel. We should be able to be completely independent in a major pandemic. Publicly funded private health units should be subject to state emergency preparedness and have the same requirements as municipal activities. All private health care companies with agreements from regions should by law be included in the regional and state emergency preparedness. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 10. Madam President, I would like The number of care places per inhabitant has been more than halved since 1994. It is the lowest in the EU. We believe that the government should take the initiative for a national strategy to look at enough care places based on demographic needs, crisis preparedness and long-term skills needs. We need more staff in the next crisis. Without air in the systems, staff have had to work hard, and a major effort is needed to increase staffing in public health care. I would like to thank all the health professionals and care professionals. We can applaud until your hands bleed, but what you need are resources to get a good work environment and wages that reflect your responsibility for life and death, as has been seen during this pandemic. Madam President, I would like We are currently seeing how dependent we are on the pharmaceutical industry and their delivery of vaccines. The fact that there are vaccines at all is fantastic, but dependence on pharmaceutical companies and vaccine producers cannot continue in this way. The Left wants to investigate the conditions for the publicly owned manufacturing industry of vaccines. Covid-19 and class are connected, as always when it comes to class and health. It was the taxi drivers who drove home infected middle class from the Alps after the sports break. We need more class focus, make testing and care more accessible and offer flexible times for testing. No one should be dependent on digital solutions to test themselves. We must reduce the risk of workplace infections. If you are ill, stay home with sickness insurance. Karen's days always spread infection, you might say. We must ensure that those who have major problems for months after covid-19 receive the care they need. It is extremely important that we build up these systems as quickly as possible. We must also prepare for a deterioration in mental health after covid-19. It is about constant fear for over a year, unemployment, young people who have turned their lives around and older people who have not been able to meet their relatives. We have everything to gain by increasing resources against mental illness. Now we have to work to make the vaccination available to everyone at night and weekends and with mass vaccination in large places. We can! It's amazing with vaccines. We will also follow the guidelines. Unfortunately, some regions have not done so. In the Stockholm region, 70% of those vaccinated have been under 70 years of age. As I have said, I am in favour of reservation 10.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-112	Madam President, I would like The motions we have to deal with are written when we had much less experience with this pandemic than we have today. I would therefore like to mention what I think we should do in the future with the knowledge we have gained. First of all, I would like to highlight the motions that the Liberals have raised here, particularly the one on pharmaceutical preparedness, which has proved to be very lacking, as several have pointed out. In fact, I myself have been responsible centrally for Sweden's pharmaceutical readiness, and this is not difficult to solve if you have a central warehouse, routines for how to translate the warehouse and a list of which drugs should be there, because it is not all that we have approved in Sweden that should be there at all. There should also be procedures for borrowing from the warehouse. I am in favour of reservation 17 under paragraph 4 and then move on to the pandemic, where the Corona Commission has come up with very important statements that we will learn from and take with us in the coming pandemics – because they will come. As for the restraining order, it came in a situation where we were a little panicked. But the restraining order should be arranged in a different way. You should be able to get a visit from your closest relatives, who during visits can also relieve the staff of the accommodations with the company and quality of life that can be conveyed. Now it has taken a lot of time for the staff to try to meet the most basic contact needs. The harsh thing is that the restraining order, which is illegal, continues. One of the worst examples I have received today is an accommodation where everyone is vaccinated, both residents and staff, but where the restraining order continues. Family members are not allowed to come and visit the accommodation. Then I wonder what you've been thinking. It must therefore be clear to future pandemics how to organise these visits. The same is true of those who want to move; this summer we had trouble with those who wanted to isolate themselves in their vacation homes and needed home help. It also needs to be clarified how it can be arranged in a good way. As far as the pharmaceutical industry is concerned, for quite a number of years we have been calling for medicines to be tested on the patient group to use them. First, we discovered that women were not in clinical trials, and that was because they did not want to risk testing a drug on someone who was pregnant. Now it's an even distribution when you try. But there has also been a requirement to try out years - rich, and so it is a mystery to me that Astra did not put up her trial so that enough years - rich people were present. Today, therefore, we are facing problems with the use of the Astra vaccine. As far as the region's vaccine strategies are concerned, they are very different. I know regions where they have now entered phase 2 and started to vaccinate 70-plusers, but for us in Stockholm is my stable tips April. This, of course, impairs people's trust in decision-makers and those who put it up – especially when you read that those who go to health school take precedence over multi-sick 90-plusers. It's kind of hard to digest. We therefore need to develop a clear vaccination strategy with priorities that people understand and which do not deviate from a little here and there. We have to learn all the time. It will be very important when the Corona Commission comes up with the next report a little later – what can we learn, and what can we do better? During the last debate I felt that I had been almost a bit grumpy and grumpy, so I concluded with what I thought was a sunshine story about a dear, healthy and active neighbour who celebrated his 80th birthday with covid-19 at St Göran's hospital. I told him that after two weeks he woke up and asked for a beer, and you all smiled. He died four days later. This generation has been identified as a priority in terms of vaccinations and does not feel prioritised. It's not funny. We are beginning to talk about the fact that this is a reality, and a discussion we are discussing is that we are cleaning up. This is not good. We live in Sweden, a welfare society that should be able to communicate, explain and organize care so that you feel confident that you are present and do not have to risk dying on the goal line.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-123	Madam President, I would like We are in a global crisis, a coronapandemia, which has led to major consequences for society as a whole – many sick people, a heavy burden on health care, a severe health debt, high death rates, higher unemployment and a deterioration of the economy. Many people have lost loved ones. Many suffer from isolation and loneliness. The virus is brutally hitting our society. Some are mildly affected while others become seriously ill, and some suffer chronic symptoms. The knowledge of the virus increases every day, but there is still much to be researched about. We know that old age is a risk factor, and that is why the strategy is to protect our elderly. However, the consequences have been that many have suffered from mental illness as a result of isolation and loneliness. But mental ill health does not only affect the elderly; students and students have a tough time with distance education, and even those who work from home find it difficult to get the routine together and feel lonely. I am concerned about the consequences of the pandemic on our mental health. Madam President, I would like Humbly, I note that neither Sweden nor the rest of the world were sufficiently prepared for the pandemic, despite the knowledge that pandemics recur in different time periods. Therefore, it is especially important that we turn and twist each stone. Different opinions and ideas enrich the issue and at the same time enable us to deal with the crisis more effectively, now and in the future. But at the same time we must have several balls in the air and be aware that things could have been done differently with current knowledge. Nevertheless, I believe that the government, together with the authorities, has acted forcefully on the basis of the state of knowledge. About a year ago, the WHO launched a global pandemic. Knowledge was then limited, but today the state of knowledge is much better on how the virus is transmitted and what complications can be caused by the disease. New findings are already being applied in health care, which shortens the length of care and reduces mortality. Vaccination has already started and takes place in different phases depending on the risk group you belong to. We begin by protecting our elderly and health care professionals. Sweden's pandemic strategy is based on protecting our elderly and our risk groups. We also want to ensure that the spread of infection is as low as possible, thereby giving our health services good opportunities to deal with the situation. It is also very much based on the individual's responsibility, through the dissemination of knowledge, to know how to behave. The strategy must be long-term and sustainable. The decisions taken are based on science and proven experience, and they are taken in close cooperation with our authorities and experts. That is a wise approach. Although we were not sufficiently prepared, the issue was on our agenda. The Government already decided in 2018 to set up an investigation into the preparedness and capacity of health care in the event of a crisis. Madam President, I would like Parliament, government, authorities and others have taken several measures in connection with the covid-19 pandemic. Several proposals have been put forward which have resulted in substantial financial compensation for regions, municipalities, companies and cultural and organisational activities. Simplifications and improvements have been made in unemployment insurance and health insurance – decisions that have been taken with broad agreement in the Riksdag. The fight against infection shall not be hindered by a lack of financial resources. As early as 2020, the Corona Commission was appointed by the Government and is tasked with examining the measures taken by the Government, authorities, regions and municipalities to limit the spread of the disease. The Commission shall also make an international comparison of measures and their impact. The Commission has a great deal of work ahead of it, which concerns many parts. It will evaluate and analyse most of the things related to the pandemic. A first interim report has been submitted on elderly care during the pandemic. It was found there that Swedish care for the elderly was unprepared and that the measures taken were late and, in some cases, inadequate. To start pointing out scapegoats in the process is wrong. Let us wait for the full basis in order to draw the right conclusions! But, of course, there were shortcomings, as evidenced by the high death rates we see in our retirement homes and in home care. The government has also set up an investigation to propose an older care bill. The aim is, among other things, to ensure access to health care services in the elderly. Since the previous legislature did not allow for the necessary decisions, the Riksdag adopted a temporary covid-19 law. The law provides opportunities to prevent congestion and otherwise prevent the spread of infection. The law has already begun to be applied by limiting the number of people allowed to reside in a locality. Several new regulations are planned depending on the future state of the infection. Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that our preparedness and capabilities in health care in peacetime need to be strengthened and that our supply of medicines and other medical supplies needs to be improved. We need to review coordination and cooperation between different actors and strengthen supply chains of medicines, for example. Greater public responsibility is needed here. It is to be hoped that all the various investigations will point this out. The government was early in developing a vaccination strategy. Shortly thereafter, a national vaccination coordinator was appointed. The Public Health Agency has developed a national operational plan. Vaccinations should primarily be given to those people who are most at risk of serious illness or death in covid-19. Early on, a joint decision was taken in the EU to sign agreements and to tender for vaccines. Several agreements have been signed, including for future use. Our aim is that the population of Sweden should have been offered vaccines by the mid-year. Finally, I would like to highlight in particular all health and care professionals who are making an incredible contribution at a difficult time. Warm thanks to all of you! I support the proposal.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-139	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist, for the intervention in this very important debate! Let me begin by saying that I very much share the description that Mrs Dahlqvist began by stating how hard the pandemic has hit our whole society but especially against certain groups and that it has struck in different ways. What I was concerned to hear was what I criticised in my speech, namely that the government parties have quite a bit of a receded attitude. I share the view that Sweden was not sufficiently prepared for the pandemic, as Mrs Dahlqvist said in her speech. The problem is that the government did not learn from the first wave of the pandemic and was not more prepared and better equipped for the second wave. And what I am concerned about now, Madam President, is that the government is making the same mistake again. Now, on the eve of a forthcoming third wave, we are not proactive enough, but we are still reactive and slow. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Dahlqvist: why not learn from the mistakes that have been made? Why not develop the action plan that we Moderates are calling for in order to meet a third wave with, among other things, a clearer national crisis management, with clearer requirements for mouth protection, with more rules instead of recommendations, with clear compensation for affected companies and not least with better functioning infectious detection and testing? We were late this spring to get started with the large-scale testing. It gave us a very bad starting point in the pandemic. Now we must be on our toes and prevent the spread of the new mutations, use rapid tests, sequence and be much more rapid-footed. Is Mrs Dahlqvist and the government prepared to learn from their mistakes and be proactive about the third wave?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-144	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Johan Hultberg, for your questions and your comments! It's always easy to be hindsight and see what we've done and what we're going to do in the future. As I said in my speech, Johan Hultberg, our strategy is very much based on collaboration with the profession and our authorities. We are therefore using proven experience and knowledge, Madam President, and that means sharing their wise advice and knowledge with the authorities. Of course we learn from the mistakes, Madam President. Of course we should try to do things differently with today's knowledge. Nevertheless, I believe that the government has acted in the time spectrum on the basis of the knowledge and experience it has. Madam President, I would like As regards, for example, mouthguards, there is still a debate on their usefulness. If we look at comparable countries in Europe where both lockdowns have been applied, thus completely closed communities, and we see that there is still a high spread of infection. Let us see what happens in the future, Madam President, and then let us try to deal with this from the point of view of what we can and do know.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-149	Madam President, I would like Let us see what happens, was Mrs Dahlqvist's answer. It does not make me more secure, directly, but, on the contrary, more concerned. This particular laissez-faire setting is very troubling. So we have a serious pandemic. To date, more than 12 600 Swedes have died with covid-19, and we are facing a third wave. The point of my speech and my lines here was not to point out scapegoats, but the point was that we had to do more to get ready to face a third wave. We must not be as passive and reactive as we have actually been in both the first and the second wave. The government leaned back after the first wave and did not think it would be so dangerous, so when the second wave came, the legislation needed to take proper action was not in place. Testing and detection of infection remain a problem. We still do not have such a concrete and simple tool to reduce the spread of infection as a national tracking app. The strategy of protecting the elderly has failed. Why not use antigen tests, which are a good tool to ensure that we do not get more of asymptomatic contamination? Why shift all the problems in the care of the elderly to the investigation that will deliver answers in several years' time? We also need to address the problems of care for the elderly here and now. Next week we are debating several such proposals, which the Moderates, together with other parties here in the Riksdag, have managed to gain a majority for, for example, that we need to set language requirements in the care of the elderly so that all employees in the care of the elderly can take on board the procedures and guidelines that apply. We need leadership, Mrs Dahlqvist. We must act on the basis of the failure that Sweden has had so far during the pandemic. Three out of four who died in the Nordic countries are Swedes. We must learn from that.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Johan Hultberg, for your comments! I think you should be humble in this situation, Johan Hultberg – humbled by what Sweden looks like and how Sweden is governed. In principle, you and your party saw the form of government we have today with self-determination in our regions and municipalities. What is the state's responsibility versus that of regions and municipalities? Several of the municipalities for which you criticise the government are governed by bourgeois, and we have seen how things have gone. But I think it's wrong to take that line now. Let us see in the future what was wrong and what was right! That is how I meant in my speech, Madam President – that time gives us knowledge. Then I think it is wise for us not to play recreational epidemiologists. It is wise that we first let our experts come up with advice and knowledge and then, as elected representatives, weigh in knowledge. There are many if and but about the proposals that you raise, and I am not the right person to judge whether they are right now or not. But I trust our medically competent experts who, together with the government, provide an overall picture, and we make decisions based on it.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-159	Madam President, I would like The government's mantra is often the right action at the right time. That makes sense, but the big question is what basis we have for the decisions we make. It is important that it is transparent, that we know what the basis is and what the reasons are for us now making this decision. We know that Denmark today, perhaps tomorrow, will decide on new measures or reliefs. This means that the parties – all parties – gather the day before, go through the documentation and discuss what measures they should have. We Christian Democrats believe that the right action at the right time has been transparent and transparent as to what the reasons for the assessment are. We miss that very often today – it is very rarely that the government is transparent and tells us that. It is simply said that a collective assessment is made, and so we do this or that. My first question to the honourable Member is: how does the honourable Member view the lack of transparency? Could we do more, and how does the honourable Member value the need for transparency? Is that unnecessary? Am I asking a completely unnecessary question? Is it better that we just leave the decisions to the government? I also have a second question. I know that we have agreed in this House that the Pandemic Act was too late, so we do not need to say any more that we would have liked to have seen it before. The Pandemic Act was not the right measure at the right time, but it was the right measure too late. I am guessing, however, that the honourable Member has some examples of measures that have come just in time, so I would like to ask the honourable Member: what are the measures taken during the pandemic that have been just the right measures at the right time?
i-3AFyFUEAfF4MurPUP3RECa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for the questions! The answer to Mr Ankarberg's first question is yes. I think this is extremely important. Especially when we are in a global crisis, as we do in our country too, national unity and unity are important. I think, Madam President, that at the beginning – and perhaps almost all of the first year – we had quite a good consensus and talked about the strategy we were going to adopt in the future. Madam President, I would like I am not the right person to answer how the government and later the Prime Minister do in their work of anchoring with the other parties and party leaders, but it is clear that it is reasonable to meet continuously, agree and listen. I personally see no problem whatsoever with this – on the contrary, as I said in my speech, it enriches having a broad debate. Nevertheless, I think it is important, Madam President, that we are governed a great deal by our experts, of course with a balance for the whole. The second question Acko Ankarberg asked me was what efforts the government has made at the right time. Until today, it is clear that we have failed in some parts, Madam President, but I still think that in many parts it has worked quite well. We have been able to have a relatively open society with the benefits this brings to the economy and individuals. Although we have high death rates, compared to the rest of Europe we are in the middle. In fact, I think that the government has taken action relatively quickly. However, one mistake we may have made, Madam President, is to rely too much on the regions and municipalities, for example, when it comes to testing. Perhaps we should have gone in there before, but that has to do with our municipal self-government.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-168	Madam President, I would like I think this is exactly what we need to do much more. The policy should of course take in knowledge from authorities, academics and the research community in general; it is necessary. But it is we who judge from – from one and the other we judge from the political consequences. I understand that this is exactly what Mrs Dahlqvist is doing now. Nevertheless, we have been able to value things that have been positive for society, and then we may have to take some limitations and problems. I would like to see much more of that from the government. It is very rare to actually make those balances, but it sounds more like the government has decided and that it is always the right action at the right time. It doesn't work; you don't get compliance or trust in anything unless you tell us the reasons and reasons for it. Greater openness and transparency about what you see, what you know and how you judge from creates respect for the one who makes decisions, even when you make decisions about who you then – which you often get to do in a crisis – may say that it didn't turn out as good as you hoped because something else happened. Being open with the bases is very important. I want to make a contribution to strengthening the basis and transparency, because I think it increases the responsiveness of the population. The fact that we opposition parties can be difficult is something that every government has to live with, but that the population feels security and trust is very important. Now we need to increase compliance with the counsel and limitations that exist. If we do not succeed in this, we will continue to have high death rates, so it is essential that we succeed in doing so. It is wise that we actually value what we have done that has been good and bad measures. One measure that I have been working very hard on is the restraining order on retirement homes, which has been very bad for those who have actually been trapped in special accommodations. We know today that it is the infection that may be asymptomatic – the one you carry with you without knowing it – that has actually affected the most. Then no restraining order will help in the world, because the staff will still come in. Dare to evaluate what is difficult – we need to do that in the future.
i-K3SZ5pJGoGa49W7pbWPhK5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Acko Ankarberg, for your comments! I have no other opinion than what I said in my first line change with you, Acko Ankarberg. Of course, we should have transparency and transparency as far as possible. This is particularly true when it comes to large, broad, important and serious issues, and the pandemic is one of them. Madam President, I would like to ask for something back. The opposition should of course be critical, and I welcome such a debate. However, I would like a little more nuanced criticism sometimes. It sounds to some of us here in the speaker's chair that we have completely failed with the whole pandemic strategy, and that is not the answer. I would be happy to pass on your comments to the Ministry of Social Affairs, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, because I share your view. Madam President, I would like As far as the whole is concerned, we must take on board what we learn and what we have done wrong. I take it that at the moment we have a great deal of agreement in this House as to how the state will take greater responsibility in the future in healthcare, for example. We will have an exciting discussion – or rather, we already have a discussion – on the main issue. As it is today, however, it is designed in a somewhat difficult way; we are quite in agreement on that. That's where we'll have to think about what's wise in the future.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-179	Madam President, I would like Something that shocked me when we entered this pandemic was the lack of protective equipment. It was really over. The large regions – or regions at all – had failed to build up stocks of protective equipment. Stockholm, for example, had protective equipment for four days, and there was panic. In fact, the lack of protective equipment meant that, for example, the elderly did not have protective equipment for a month, and that is a disaster situation. We would like legislation on this. Protection equipment in the regions cannot be free play – you cannot play with the health of a whole population as you have done, I think. Wouldn't it be very good if we had legislation that said that the regions should have protective equipment for at least three months? This would be some kind of pandemic layer in addition to the large consumption stock we are going to have. Stocks are extremely important, and it was thanks to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare that it actually came in protective equipment in Sweden. Another issue I have been thinking about, Madam President, is vaccination. There is obviously a good plan that is drawn up between the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and the Government, with very clear priorities and so on. Now this is not being followed out in the regions. Are there any thoughts on how to make it work better? If 70% of the vaccinated in a region is under 70 years of age, it must be seen as very strange, Madam President. Is this something the government has been thinking about?
i-D3hWbL5eTANTw3eFavXcV8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the questions! I will begin with the first question, Madam President, on how we view legislation on the storage of protective equipment – and medicines, I would add. I share the view of the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö that we must have a system in which we secure protective equipment. Clearly, we were in great trouble. It was not the health care system that was worst hit, Madam President, but it was in the care of the elderly and in the care sector as a whole that we saw the major shortcomings. Those were miserable situations. The government has an ongoing investigation into this particular issue. We'll wait for that investigation, we'll do our bits of preparation, and we'll make a decision. However, I would not be surprised, Madam President, if the government were to come back with a bill which in some way wants to secure our supplies of consumables and medicines at national level. The second question put by Karin Rågsjö, Madam President, concerns vaccinations that do not follow the order of priority. I would just like to underline Karin Rågsjö's opinion in the speaker's chair, because it is totally demolishing for the system. That is why it is important, just as you said Karin Rågsjö, that there must be consequences here. Madam President, I would like Because we have the governance method we have in Sweden with municipal self-government and where it is regions and municipalities that are allowed to deal with work environment issues, it gets errors as a result. But at national level it is very clear which ones should be prioritised. There has also been a clear agreement between the state and SKR that describes how the vaccination should take place.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-187	Madam President, I would like What has been evident throughout the pandemic to us who have followed it in the Social Committee from day one until now is the governance in Sweden. The government has not had all the power, so to speak, and been able to press a number of buttons so that things will happen out there, but there have been very many chefs in the soup with different crystal balls that you have polished to see what to do and not do – usually afterwards, I would say, Madam President. I think it is a huge problem that in a crisis one does not have a system that allows the state to govern in a completely different way and, as I mentioned in the speaker's chair, that all parties are in a kind of crisis group. This is a war we're fighting. Then we cannot sit and discuss the way we have done, but we must do it more together. Does not a governance system with a government that can push a few buttons, that is, a state crisis structure with a group of members from all parties in a crisis group together, as a way forward? With this, I believe that progress had been made in a different way as a collective. The political game we all play, Madam President, when we can. But precisely in a pandemic, a war the way it is now, I think it would have been good if we had found a better function for the parties where we had felt more involved. In the future, Madam President, I hope so.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-191	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your comments! The question of governance is incredibly interesting. After all, we have a system that several of us have described today – that we have municipal self-government in our municipalities and regions. This has led, Madam President, to the fact that neither the government nor Parliament, for that matter, have acted as forcefully as we have wished. In addition, we still have shortcomings in our legislation that prevent us from taking the measures that are in fact the most appropriate in the situation, Madam President. The honourable Member asks me how to organise cooperation. It would be presumptuous for me to speak out on the responsibility of the government in terms of cooperation. But I think that all the investigations that are now under way will have to give us an answer to how Sweden should be governed in the future and perhaps also to think about what an anchoring or collaboration should look like in the parliamentary situation that is. Madam President, I would like In fact, we have a very clear administration today at war where we appoint a special governance, as committees and so on. I want to believe that there are points with both what you, Karin Rågsjö, and earlier Acko Ankarberg made. I think it is reasonable to have a broad management process.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-196	Madam President, I would like This is my first speech in this House, so I will simply give some reflections on some of the reservations in the report that we are going to consider here today. I intend to make my speech on the theme of the paleness of reflection. Before entering into the reservations, I would like, as one of the first things I do in this speaker's chair, to express my great, heartfelt and heartfelt thanks to all the staff who over the past year have made heroic contributions to Sweden's municipalities and regions. They've saved a great many lives. We should be well aware of that. We usually talk about those who have died, and of course we will, but there are all the more that Swedish health care has actually saved and who today breathe and continue with their lives. Swedish health care has changed by taking on this virus in record time. The pandemic has been managed and a completely new need for care that was not there a year ago has been taken care of. Corona survivors or people with long-term corona have not been present in Swedish healthcare at all. If now everyone follows the recommendations of the coming time and Sweden gets vaccines to the regions and our population gets vaccinated, I hope that all of you who work in healthcare and care can have the opportunity for a well-deserved recovery, which you have actually renounced for all of us. Madam President, I would like I shall now go back to the theme of the paleness of reflection. I have read the reservations, which very much concern the various shortcomings of the regions and the state in terms of the supply of medicines, the lack of various stocks and so on. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Members of this House that we, that is, the state, all the inhabitants and citizens of this country, not very long ago had a pretty good organisation for this. I think it was even a limited liability company. AB Apoteket I think it was called. We cut it up and sold it. It was previously an organisation that was in place in each municipality. It had the task of keeping medicines in storage. It made sure that caregivers had access to the medicines they needed. In addition, they had an exemplaryly efficient purchasing department or procurement department which allowed all of us citizens who needed medicines to have access to medicines at a lower cost, in addition, throughout the country. It was on the whole a drug supply that worked blameless for both caregivers and patients. In the slightly larger country in the west that recently had a presidential election, they tend to throw themselves with the expression: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. A little freely translated means that if it works there is no reason to fix it, but let it continue to work. The question I ask myself in this House after reading the reservations is what guide the bourgeois government that sold and cut up the pharmacy had and what problems it wanted to solve by doing so. Did no health care providers object to the fact that drug supplies did not work, were protest lists collected in favour of a liberalised pharmacy market and so on? Now it is a few years ago, but I have no memory that this was the case. Madam President, I would like We can now buy Alvedon at Ica, and that is a good idea. But we are terribly ill-equipped to deal with a pandemic. It is probably one of the results of the management of the company Apoteket. I don't have a problem with market solutions. They are great too much, for example different kinds of bath salts, skin creams, flavored gum and so on. But are they something to lean on during a pandemic or when we are building a robust healthcare system? Well, I guess it's still to be seen. I guess that's a little what the reservations are about. I thought a little freely, because I suppose that is something you have to do sometimes as a Member of this House. The state had a perfect organization for the supply of medicines with full expertise over logistics, purchasing and distribution, with 100% national coverage and with its own staff and own line organization. If the State had retained this advice over Apoteket AB, it would have been able to quickly obtain national sampling through a ownership directive to the Board of Directors of the company. Let me point out once again that the regions have made heroic efforts in terms of sampling. But their capacity and responsibility are more than covid tests. They are also responsible for the regular health care system, and it also needs labs and test tests, which is a limiting factor. I'm sure the pharmacy can't solve all the problems I'm lining up, but it's about the fact that we've given up the ability to have a robust society. The Green Party was strongly opposed to this liberalisation and that this infrastructure should be broken down. So the next time you think about whether to liberalise and provide Sweden with bath salts or vital medicines, you can think about what is the core task of the state. Madam President, I would like I thank the other Members for their interesting contributions and look forward to more exciting exchanges of views in committee. I support the committee's proposal.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-208	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the Riksdag, Nicklas Attefjord! It is exciting that you will also get to grips with the Social Affairs Committee's questions, and it was interesting to listen to you here. Pharmacy is a highly regulated industry. The honourable Member will find that it is entirely governed by the state what prices are put on medicines. They don't put the business on their own. It is completely regulated by the state and full price control. In addition, the re-regulation decided on everything essential to policy. I look forward to the honourable Member coming back with suggestions on how to make any adjustments. I am pleased that we have been able to increase the availability of the pharmacy market. It is wise that today we have more pharmacies and more opportunities to buy the medicines that people need that are prescribed by doctors. There is also a non-prescription range. But you can't actually buy Alvedon for adults at Ica because there are risks with it. So this is highly regulated. It is free to be opposed when decisions are made. But then, when you sit on the government, you can change the decisions and regulate in other ways. However, I have not seen any such proposals but look forward to the honourable Member returning with them during the general period of exercise. I think the honourable Member noted that several of us came back to the fact that we want more national leadership and governance to deal with the pandemic. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member, who has recent experience of healthcare in the Västra Götaland region: Is there a need for more national governance of health care in a crisis?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-213	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for the question. As the honourable Member mentioned, I was until recently a regional politician in Västra Götaland. My experience from there is that in a crisis health care is at its very best. It becomes clear what to do, the decision-making routes are short and a lot of red tape is cut. I find it hard to believe that central government from Stockholm would make things better. A previous change of line mentioned how the vaccination priorities were abandoned, which we did in Västra Götaland. When the head of intensive care at Sahlgrenska explained that the emergency care at Sahlgrenska would implode in a covid outbreak among the staff, it was a reasonable decision that these personnel should take the lead to avoid severe consequences for all residents throughout Gothenburg. However, in other parts of the country where they did not have the same spread, there were no problems in complying with the national guidelines. To sit in Stockholm and say what everyone in the country should do at a detailed level is not always great.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-217	Madam President, I would like No, it is absolutely not smart to sit in Stockholm – this hateful place for large parts of Sweden. But Stockholm is quite nice, I can tell those who are not able to be here. No, politics should leave detailed management to it. During the pandemic, we have rather seen how the professions themselves changed. It was not politicians or senior officials who made the transition, but in a few weeks this spring mainly changed the staff from other departments to intensive care departments. We need to use the power of the staff much more in the future. My party has exercised that all the bureaucratic and administrative functions that were put aside during the pandemic should not be restored until we know if they are needed. It is a kind of simple moratorium: do not return a lot of administrative procedures until we have tested whether we really need them! I agree with the honourable Member that we need to make more use of this power in health care. But I think it is more about what the members of the committee have highlighted, namely the stocks of governance that exist in health care and that do not simplify health care. In a crisis, no one, not even the government, can decide to move medicines between two regions, even though that medicine to anesthetize patients is needed. Should there not be a national decision-making power to be able to take the necessary measures with regard to medicines, patients, staff or other things in a particular crisis? It is not simply to be Minister of Social Affairs when, as Karin Rågsjö said, you cannot even press the button and have an effect, but must hope that 21 regions will. I am happy to listen more to what the honourable Member thinks about possible national governance and how it could work better.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-223	Madam President, I would like As far as detailed management is concerned, I am such a politician who works with trust and trust, and I have extremely great confidence and confidence that my colleagues in the regions will not reintroduce administrative burdens. It's one of my experiences. From the horizon I come from now on, I think I would still like to say that we took political responsibility. We gave a delegated mandate to those who needed it to lead and govern in a crisis. In the dialogues we have had with the profession, they have been very pleased with the way in which we changed our political organisation. This is an experience that we can take with us, watch, think about and work on. Then there were the medicines and coordination between the different regions. I think we should have carried out the major regional reform. It would have been much easier if we had large and robust regions, as in the proposal that was on Parliament's table a number of years ago, unclear when. I regret that the Parliament at the time, which it was now, did not implement this decision. It would have been good in this pandemic.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-226	Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to warmly welcome Mr Nicklas to this House. I look forward to working together. Member Attefjord should know that in the Committee on Social Affairs, despite what this debate may have shown, we are fundamentally very solution-oriented. We are trying to find broad solutions, not least under the excellent leadership of Chairman Acko Ankarberg Johansson in the committee. She's good at finding landing zones where we can get together and find common positions. When I listened to Attefjord's maiden speech, however, I was a little disappointed, Madam President, that he spent eight minutes talking about the pharmacy monopoly and that it would have been the solution to the pandemic and the problems that have arisen. I find this a very worrying description. He did not say a word about what should be done to prevent a third wave, what the government may have failed with or the experiences that I am sure Attefjord has brought with it from the Västra Götaland region to the Parliament House and the work of the Social Committee. We should know that it was not before the re-regulation that Apoteket had complete control over the whole chain. At that time, as today, it was, after all, the suppliers who were stockpiling medicine, and emergency stocks were abolished long before we scrapped the pharmacy monopoly in 2009. It was also an incorrect description of what it looked like before the reform and what it looks like today. Madam President, I would like I would now like to take this opportunity to ask the honourable Member: what measures does Nicklas Attefjord think need to be taken now to prevent Sweden from being hit hard by a third wave? What steps will he take forward?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-230	Madam President, I would like Mr Hultberg asks what measures I would like to see to prevent a third wave. One can evaluate how successful Sweden's strategy has been. I pointed out that we have saved many thousands because our health system has not at any time failed to the extent that has been the case in other countries. Keeping it working has been a key factor. Otherwise, I do not believe in any miracle cures, but it is about keeping a distance, maintaining social distance, getting people to follow the routine and getting vaccination levels up quickly. The problem here is not vaccinators, but it seems to be the deliveries from the companies from which the EU has procured. There are no shortcuts to take here, but we have to hold on, hold on and get vaccination rolled out. That's what I see as most important.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-232	Madam President, I would like To hold on and hold on, we're seeing bigger and bigger problems. A growing proportion of the population simply does not comply with the recommendations made at the beginning of the pandemic. That is why, among other things, we Moderates are calling for an action plan, which we believe is needed to be well prepared to tackle a third wave and to avoid the spread of infection being large and extensive, and that we are in the situation that we have previously found ourselves in, with intensive care on our knees and staff being forced to work extremely hard. We are in complete agreement, me and Mrs Attefjord, that the health workers, as well as the care workers, are fantastic heroes who have saved an incredible number of lives. But my firm opinion is that we have not politically provided these heroes with sufficient conditions. We could have stopped more of the spread of the disease. We could have given elderly care and healthcare better opportunities to tackle the pandemic. I believe that we must now learn from the mistakes that have been made. We need a government that is proactive and that ensures that we have an action plan with more rules, as I said, rather than just recommendations, as we see that compliance is not as good as it needs to be. We need more testing and more sequencing. We need to use all the tools that we actually have in our toolbox. I have the fullest respect for the fact that at the beginning of the pandemic they did not know how to make and made many mistakes, but now we have more knowledge and better tools. Why not, for example, develop a disease detection app as soon as possible? Why not make sure, broadly and nationally, that we roll out antigen tests and rapid tests to ensure that we can prevent the spread of asymptomatic infection and other things? And so are the vaccinations. It would be great if Attefjord could support the Moderates' committee initiative that a national information campaign is needed to ensure that we reach the good vaccination rate that the honourable Member is talking about.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-237	Madam President, I would like Mr Hultberg talks about what needs to be done and has a number of different proposals. After all, the government is weekly presenting new proposals and new restrictions and screws in the measures and packages that exist. I think it's a good thing. If that's enough, then I find it difficult to judge from my position... maybe further things can be done. What can be added is that we have much more knowledge of the infection now. We know, for example, that it is very socially skilled in hitting the weakest, i.e. those who are most crowded, who have the lowest incomes and who have contact occupations. It is those who are affected and who are dying very much, so we probably need to put in more measures there. There, the municipalities in particular need to look at measures against overcrowding and other things that I find hard to believe would be done from the government level. This is something that the regional and municipal levels need to work on as new knowledge is added about how the virus acts.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-239	Madam President, I would like In my first debate in the Committee on Taxation, I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to extend the abolition of preferential taxation on parking in connection with work and on gifts to employees. I note that the government also made the corresponding proposal on this subject on 19 February. I would like to tell you in this speech why we support the proposal and also thank you for the proposal. I will focus mainly on the employees in health care and care and what the proposal means for them. But I will also describe what the situation was like in Järva, where we were hit very hard during the first wave of the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I'll start with a historical flashback. In Sweden, we are currently in the worst pandemic in the country since the Spanish flu entered the country at the end of World War I. The Spanish flu was, just as covid-19 is, very severe and deadly. In Sweden, 38 000 of the country's 5.8 million inhabitants died. Just as we are referring to the Spanish flu today, in 1918 and 1919 reference was made to the Black Death. In 1918 there were 6,000 places at Sweden's epidemic hospital and about 2,500 nurses. At that time, just as now, what measures should be put in place, which measures were the right ones and which measures work best. When the covid-19-pandemin pulled in over Sweden just over a year ago it was something new and unknown, at least for me. I had seen and read news about the pandemic, but I could not imagine its consequences. In Järva, where I live and work, we immediately set up Järvahjälpen to help the elderly and people at risk with food and medicines. It didn't take us long to realize that the infection got a firm grip in Järva early on. Overcrowding and many people with community-supporting jobs who had to move are said to be some of the reasons. Järva has healthcare professionals, preschool staff, public transport workers and more. It is simply not possible to work from home for many people in Järva. Therefore, it is good to continue to make it easier for all people in the country to take the car to work in order to reduce congestion in public transport and reduce the spread of infection and the burden on health care. It is also good that many people are currently working hard in the country. They can earn an extra gift. That is why this proposal makes it easier for the employer to give them an extra gift. Madam President, I would like I'm going back to 1918 one more time. History does not repeat itself, but it often rhymes, as Mark Twain once described it so beautifully. Arnold Josefson was one of the leading debaters during the Spanish flu. He is described as a most ideal person driven by optimism, not least for his view of the doctor's role as a social guardian. During the spring and autumn with Järvahjälpen I felt how the wing strokes of history echoed. Healthcare professionals such as Roma and Mirja, nurses such as Mirja, nurses and doctors helped as volunteers in Järvahjälpen. The spirit as a social guard lives on within the corps. First they were at work. Then they volunteered to make sure that the elderly and people at risk were helped with food, medicine and other needs. One day in Järva, I saw five ambulances coming to pick up accommodations. Some of them never came home again. During their last time in life, they had health workers by their side who held their hand and patted them on the cheek. I knew that it was really only a matter of time before I would be infected myself. So came that day, too. Unfortunately, I did not get the easy version, which thank God most people get. A summer day that must have been beautiful, because I remember the sun shining out there, I also ended up in the hospital. There, health workers worked around the clock. First there was the emergency room, where there is someone who has to make the first necessary priorities and meet all the worried people. Then it was the ward. It's part of a job, some say. That's right, isn't it? But now we are also in the most difficult pandemic in a hundred years, and it also requires much more than it has done in the past for a hundred years by health professionals. That is also why, for both political and personal reasons, I see the benefits of this proposal, which originally comes from the Moderates and from the government. In special circumstances in a special time, this gives healthcare professionals the opportunity to perhaps stay home a little longer with the family if you can take the car to work and thereby also reduce the risk of being exposed and exposing others to infection and perhaps stay a little longer at work just to hold in the hand that needs this hand and care, all of this without having to worry about the economy. It is also good to make it easier for the employer to give the staff an extra gift, a staff that wears and lasts during this time. I would like to thank you for the proposal. It saves more jobs. I would also like to thank everyone in care who makes endless contributions. People in many other professions also work very hard during this time. It is also good that we agree on this issue together and that all health professionals continue to act as social guards.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-253	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the proposal in the report of the Committee on Taxation which enables health professionals to take the car to work without worrying about being taxed in favour of a parking lot and which enables the public and employers to support the people working in the front line against the pandemic. Madam President, I would like It is becoming increasingly difficult to discuss and debate matters relating to the pandemic, not because we know less– we know more– not because hope is now completely out– it seems as soon as possible to be closer than ever with vaccines and that we are moving towards brighter times– but because we are more and more people who know more and more people who have lost their lives, who have lost a loved one or who have lost their lives themselves but are still alive but are alone, isolated and perhaps even depressed and despairing. It has been a year that resembles nothing else, and a whole new everyday life has emerged for many of us. It is a daily life that for many is characterised by loneliness, fear and anxiety. It is a daily life that has changed character and for many become much more difficult when working at home while having the children at home and partly doing the school's and preschool's tasks. Even to the extent that schools and preschools are open, people are constantly affected by staff being sick, departments being closed and the uncertainty in everyday life is difficult. That is why, Madam President, it is increasingly difficult to talk about these things. But let's remember, there's hope around the corner. A vaccine can have a good effect. And hopefully the good results of sun, heat and outdoor stay last spring and summer can be repeated. But it is also difficult not to feel a frustration that it has gone as bad as it has done in Sweden. It's hard not to feel: What if it could have gone as in Norway or in Finland instead? Now that it is holiday weeks, we think about why Sweden did what it did a year ago when people from full airplanes from Italy and other infected areas were allowed to go straight into society. Why have we in Sweden been so slow with different types of measures? This should of course be evaluated. But the Promise Strategy that we have had in Sweden has undeniably put us in a situation that many other countries have escaped. It has had serious consequences for many people throughout our country. This crisis has mainly health implications, but its impact on the economy is also considerable. It is not only those who have fallen ill, those who have had relatives who have fallen ill, those who have died, those who have relatives who have died and those who feel bad because the disease is around those who have been affected. There are also many people who have lost their entire income or part of their income as a result of the pandemic. This time Sweden stands out differently from previous crises. The last time that there was a crisis in the economy, Anders Borg was Minister of Finance, and Sweden was appointed The Nordic Light – one of the countries in the world that was absolutely the best at managing the crisis. This time we Swedes have put up with being in a different situation when we compare ourselves with other countries. Unfortunately, Sweden has not done very well in terms of the spread of infection, disease and death rates. When it comes to financial management, Sweden has managed perhaps mediocre but with high unemployment figures. Here, the Moderates and Elisabeth Svantesson have done their utmost to do as many jobs as possible. From day one, the goal was clear, namely to save as many jobs as possible, to carry as many people, households and families as possible through the crisis with as little impact on their economy and their security as possible. It has, on the one hand, been a tough task to deliver this, given that the government has often been slow. On the other hand, as today, the government has acted on our proposals for some time. It has been about proposals on the basis of proposals to safeguard jobs and protect growth as best as possible. Whether it has been a matter of protection against dismissal, aid in the case of lay-offs, conversion aid or turnover aid for companies, the Moderates have been there. We have been first, and together with others we have built political alliances to secure as many jobs as possible. I spoke earlier about all the people who have been affected by the pandemic in various ways, but there are still those who have been hit hardest or have made the biggest efforts. The proposals presented today by the Moderates, which have won the ear of all the parties in Parliament, are addressed to the people who stand in the front line against the disease. It is about those who get up early every day and fall asleep late and in between working to make those who get sick as little sick as possible, so that those lives that cannot be saved will end in as dignified a way as possible and so that the spread of infection in society will be as small as possible. It is all the great people who work in health care and care for the elderly who are there every day for the people for whom the rest of us cannot be there, because we lack competence or because we simply cannot be there for the sake of spreading disease. They deserve all our respect. It is not just about crowns and crowns, although the proposal is designed so as not to be taxed preferentially for meals and gifts. It is about something bigger than that, namely that the people who work in care for the elderly and in health care, who take care of us when we get bad, those who take the greatest personal risks in a pandemic, should feel that they not only have the economy on their side but also have our wholehearted support in their important work.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-264	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia still has a grip on Swedish society. This applies to both the direct spread of infection and the number of people ill, death, sick leave, quarantine, mental illness as a result of isolation and an extraordinary burden on health care, etc. In addition, we are very likely to face the third wave. The Swedish Democrats have worked throughout the pandemic to cooperate constructively with the government and other opposition parties to develop effective tools, equipment and financial resources to address the acute crisis. We have always advocated that a precautionary principle should clearly characterise the actions, in which measures that have the potential to reduce the spread of infection are preferred to be taken rather than not. These include increasing access to and use of protective equipment, introducing more extensive sampling and, not least, reducing the amount of social contact areas that are particularly vulnerable to the spread of infection. We believe that, among other things, offensive policy measures are needed to make it easier for healthcare professionals and other critical social functions to carry out their work with the support of society. We have therefore chosen to support this proposal for a committee initiative which, if it is approved in this House, as it appears to be, means that the Parliament will issue an announcement to the government to reintroduce the temporary tax and tax exemption for the benefit of free parking and the gift to employees. For the same reason, the Swedish Democrats have also put forward other proposals in the field of taxation. These are proposals that would make it easier for all the staff who, after all, have to appear at work physically and cannot work from home. As early as March last year, we proposed a committee initiative on the temporary cessation of congestion charges. The purpose of this is to make it easier for private cars, which means a lower risk of infection compared to the use of public transport. This could very easily have been done in Stockholm and Gothenburg, both of which are populous and where crowding in public transport often occurs. To this it can also be mentioned that the Public Health Agency still advises everyone to keep a distance in public transport and avoid trips in rush hour, which can be expected to apply in parts of 2021. We therefore believe that there is a continuing need to be able to get to and from work other than by means of public transport for reasons of infection protection. Although that proposal by the Swedish Democrats was only heard in words during the sitting of the committee, but not in action, it is positive that the report we are debating now appears to be supported. On Friday, the government sent out a memo for consultation on the issue of temporary tax and tax exemption for the benefit of free parking and gift to employees. Swedish political parties should work together during the current pandemic to take all possible measures to save both life and Sweden's competitiveness in the long term. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-271	Madam President, I would like I'm sure we've all been through different crises over the years. It has been economic social crises, civil society crises and local difficulties that may have led to local crises in our neighbourhood. But this pandemic is probably the crisis in modern times that has struck consistently throughout society. Yet some industries stand out and take bigger blows than others, not to mention the effort of our health care professional. I would also like to take this opportunity, as many others have done, to express a great, deep and warm thanks to both health professionals and the companies that are struggling to keep jobs. Let me return to the various crises. I have the great privilege of owning forests, and I go with horror every summer the forest fires that arise. I've felt the horror when the fires have been so close that I've felt the fire smoke when I've been standing on the front stairwell. We all remember the great fire in Västmanland, which made clear both the need for a system and the need for civilian and voluntary action that works in crisis. This was made clear again in the summer of 2018. This meant that this autumn we discussed and received information on issues of benefits, free nutrition and more in the Tax Committee. The question is not new. Nevertheless, a specific decision was needed in 2020 to ensure that people's voluntary efforts would not have a negative impact on people working in healthcare, for example. An additional amending budget was adopted where the abolition of preferential taxation for free parking and gifts to employees was adopted. Madam President, I would like The same proposal is now part of what the Center Party and Liberals have negotiated with the government after the matter has been brought before the Tax Committee by the Moderates, and it will apply from the end of the year. The abolition of preferential taxation will apply during the same period as the Temporary Pandemic Act. It's a perfectly reasonable decision. There has been a broad consensus in this House that different breaks are needed in how different benefits are taxed during the pandemic. For obvious reasons, there have been many concerns from citizens about various issues which are partly outside today's discussion but which show that preferential taxation is a major issue. How am I taxed when my employer pays for my car commute now during the pandemic? If I get taxis paid by my employer, how am I taxed? These are tricky issues such as these which form part of today's debate. Madam President, I would like It is important that we raise our eyes now beyond the pandemic. The Centre Party has long exercised the need for a review of the entire system of preferential and withdrawal taxation. There are two examples from the last few years– I have drawn them into this speaker's chair before, but I will do it again, because this is so important– where it has become apparent to most people that preferential taxation needs a review. Firstly, it concerns aid workers in the forest fires, which I spoke about, in the summer of 2014 and 2018, who have been taxed preferentially for food and housing. Secondly, in 2019 it turned out that farmers whose activities had a clear need for a four-wheeler were taxed in favour of huge amounts just because they own a four-wheeler. Anyone who pulls out to help people in emergency situations should not get a tax punch; that goes without saying. It is also obvious that a farmer would not have fun driving with a quadricycle that can only be used in agriculture or forestry, for example, and not even be driven on public roads. The Center Party has repeatedly stressed in 2020 that when the pandemic begins to subside, we must ask ourselves whether things should automatically return to normal. Madam President, I would like What exactly is normal? If private individuals donate lunches to health professionals for simply doing a good job– is it really to be taxed preferentially? If municipalities buy gifts to their employees through local merchant associations, for example – does it really have to be taxed preferentially? When the pandemic is over, I hope that we can agree on a major overhaul of the system. It is not obvious that everything should go back to the same regulatory framework as before the pandemic. The temporary changes that have been made, including the deduction of gifts, need to be assessed together with a major overhaul of the preferential tax system. That is what the Center Party writes in our committee motion, and I look forward to discussing this issue in committee and on more occasions in this House. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-286	Madam President, I would like More than a year has passed since the coronapandemy crippled the whole world. This crisis is unprecedented in our modern history. It is a crisis that is neither provoked by poor public finances, structural problems in the banking sector nor by housing bubbles that have burst. It is produced by an invisible virus that the whole world is fighting together right now. It is a virus that has spread like wildfire, extinguished millions of human lives and destroyed economies in country after country. My thoughts today go unabridged to all those who have been affected. They go to all those who have lost a close relative, a close friend, a relative, a colleague, or a fellow human. Looking back on this dark time in the future, we must never associate the pandemic with either statistics or stacks. We must remember forever that behind every number is a person who is no longer alive. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to highlight how proud I am to have acted as a Member of Parliament in this Parliament during the past year, last spring and beyond. We have shown that, at the most difficult moments, we have been able to put aside our quarrels and have shown that we can fight the crisis together. We are still living in a trying time. It has been a heavy period, and we have a heavy period ahead of us. But together we have taken a great joint responsibility, and I am very proud of that. We Liberals, who are part of the cooperation with the government, together with the Center Party, have presented countless and powerful crisis packages to save businesses, protect jobs, prevent more people from becoming unemployed, prioritise welfare both for municipalities and for regions, and support health care, care for the elderly, school, the judiciary and more. When we have done this at the same time as we have combated the spread of the disease, it has not been met with resistance. On the contrary, we have been able to cooperate, and sometimes the opposition parties have also taken their own initiatives. They have put forward other emergency packages than those we have put forward. This has also been very important, because that is how we have been able to reinforce each other. But, Madam President, I have also heard and noted in the debate so far that the opposition has complained a little bit of a close look. To some extent, I agree with the criticism. For who can say that enough has been done when companies continue to go bankrupt, when more people are warned, when unemployment is at its level, when more people are infected, when death rates are increasing and when we are still in the midst of crisis management and have to deal with a third wave that is now washing over our country? It's always easier to be a little critical when you're in opposition and don't have to take this responsibility fully. Nevertheless, I am grateful for the Borg peace that has existed. And I promise that the day will come when we will both evaluate the strategy, evaluate the crisis packages and evaluate and analyse what has been. In particular, the policy must be assessed by the electorate. But we're not there yet. We still have a crisis to fight. Madam President, I would like I could have been somewhat selfish, and perhaps a little mean, and in my introduction have pointed out that it was indeed the Liberals who discovered in the spring this injustice of preferential taxation for the very professions at the front, in the front line, in the struggle to save more lives. They were taxed because they were allowed to park free of charge outside their workplaces or because they received that gift or lunch from the employer after working around the clock. I could have said that it was we who were driving the government to actually ensure that this tax would be removed over a certain period. But I'm not going to, because I'm glad the Moderates and Niklas Wykman have drawn our attention to the fact that the exception expired at the turn of the year. I'm glad Niklas Wykman and the Moderates acted quickly. As a result, we eight parties can once again jointly take a decision to ensure that the extension runs throughout 2021, as long as the crisis continues. This is also retroactive, so the employees who have taken the car during both January and February and who may have been given that lunch by their employer or by the public should know that they will not be punished for the important efforts they have made during these two months. It will not result in them having to pay for the incredibly important efforts they have made for our society. The report covers all professions. You might actually think that this is coffee money in relation to the hundreds of billions we have pumped into crisis packages in a year. This deserves all those who stand there saving lives every day, those who have given up their privacy and given up time with the family. They have also taken great risks to ensure that more people can be saved from this horrendous pandemic. Madam President, I would like Finally, I think it is now more than ever, when we begin to glimpse that little glimpse of light in the tunnel and when the vaccination of the population has started – although it did not get the start that we would have liked – that we have to endure. We must keep our distance, continue to wash our hands, continue to distance ourselves and continue to work from home if we have that opportunity. It's incredibly important, and we do it to protect ourselves. Above all, however, we do so to protect others from sickness and infection. With this in mind, I would like to endorse with pride the proposal that this exemption from preferential taxation should last for another year.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-299	Madam President, I would like When you are the last in this debate, it feels like you may not have much more to add. It is also gratifying to hear and note the consensus we have in committee on the welfare of society and on the gratitude we all express for the heroes who make sure to help the people who need care most. The Corona virus and the pandemic we live in have taken thousands of lives and caused people to live in tremendous stress and anxiety, which has contributed to a great deal of suffering. Now there's a risk of a third wave. At the same time as vaccination is now ongoing, mutations also occur. What I usually contribute and also want to take this opportunity to contribute to this debate is that we and all humanity have a lesson to learn from this pandemic. The whole pandemic and the situation we find ourselves in originate in how we handle animals and nature. There is research showing that if we had worked preventively and had not handled animals and nature disrespectfully and ruthlessly, the cost of this would have been a maximum of one-tenth of the cost of dealing with such a pandemic. But now we are where we are, and we must take political decisions to alleviate the situation as much as we can. For more than a year we have lived with restrictions and social distance. We've been recommended to work from home. But, of course, that's not for everyone. Those who work with socially important activities and those who take care of our sick and elderly must be able to get to work in a safe way. In order to reduce the spread of infection and congestion in public transport, it is important to be able to transport by car. At this point, it is natural to exempt the heroes of society from certain taxes. As we have heard before, there is normally preferential taxation if staff receive gifts or free parking. The committee's proposal is to extend the derogation that already exists to apply throughout the year. Madam President, I would like We have also seen during the pandemic a great willingness to support those who have been most affected. Many good and good initiatives have been taken to promote the local business community, including by companies and other employers giving gifts to their employees. These gifts should also normally be taxed preferentially, but in order to encourage this type of initiative, we decided last year to exempt smaller donations to employees from preferential taxation. Since the will to help and the need to support local businesses remains, we think it is reasonable that we should now extend this exemption from preferential taxation.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-305	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate MJU6 Adaptation of rules on control in the food chain to the new EU control regulation. It is in principle a question of changing Swedish legislation to an EU regulation on controls in the food chain. I commend the Moderates' reservation number one. I thought I'd talk a little bit about our two reservations on the matter. The first reservation concerns competent and equivalent control in the food chain. We believe that there are some problems here today. Above all, we hear from the industry that there are problems. You don't think you get an equal assessment depending on where you are in the country. It may even be that you do not think that you get an equivalent assessment depending on which inspector you get, even in one place. We think this is a problem. We would have liked the government to have taken any action against this. In another context, we have exercised that our inspection veterinarians at slaughterhouses would need to be more equal in their assessments. It is a completely different matter, but it shows that there is no equivalent assessment today. There are many questions of interpretation. It is not legally certain how one feels treated within our industries. At the end of the day, this can go out on both the preparedness and the food production spray. It can go against our food strategy in some ways when it does not work. You hear producers who choose to close down instead of betting and moving on, and that's really unhappy. That is why we believe that it would have been necessary to broaden this and look in a different way at how we get competent and equal control, simply to ensure that it is legally safe to engage in activities in the food chain. Our second reservation concerns a proposal raised in the report that states that authorities should be able to make purchases with hidden identity. We have also previously on the Moderate side, in connection with a bill called 2019/ 20:137 Improved environmental supervision, exercised about this with hidden purchases. We think it is something that should be used very restrictively. It's on the verge of what you're actually supposed to be able to do. Government control and official work should be carried out in public and can be seen by people. When you do it with hidden purchases, it's not really like that. We are very restrictive about the use of hidden purchases. We believe that there are tools for authorities to use today. You can actually make purchases without being hidden to see, for example, that a food is of the right quality. So here we are sceptical. Madam President, I was not really going to spend much more on this. I'm brief and just wanted to make our two reservations.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-314	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the EU's control regulation on the food chain. For time winning, I only ask for reservation 2, but we support all our reservations. This debate may seem to be about small variations in how we in Sweden should transpose EU legislation. However, I would argue that a proposal we are making today is about the very essence of the exercise of authority and concerns the question of the exercise of the power of society against individuals, where the limits are and how fair that exercise of power is. Government work is about implementing political decisions and ensuring compliance with rules. In this way, the exercise of authority is a prerequisite for a civilised society. But let us be clear that exercising authority also means that society limits the freedom of the individual. Bad exercise of authority can result in injustice, inefficiency and a sense of powerlessness in the one under control. In my previous working life as a public authority, I have seen a fairly wide range of ways in which this can be done. The good practice of authority takes place with an understanding of the people who are to be induced to comply with the regulations and the conditions within which these people operate. The bad practice of authority takes place with a lack of interest in these people and their reality. The Administrative Act is the cornerstone of Swedish public authority. It shall ensure that the exercise of official authority is legally secure. The Administrative Act ensures, among other things, the so-called proportionality principle. It states that the Authority may intervene in an individual interest only if the measure is likely to result in the intended result. The measure shall in no case go beyond what is necessary and may be taken unless the intended result is reasonably proportionate to the inconvenience likely to arise to the person to whom it is addressed. Consider what is needed to ensure that an authority does not take more far-reaching measures than is necessary and what is necessary to ensure that the measures are proportionate to the inconveniences that may arise, i.e. the limitation that the authority makes of the individual's freedom. This presupposes that the authority and the verifiers are aware of the facts of what is to be regulated, i.e. that they have knowledge of the conditions, working environment and realities of a particular industry. It is not just a matter of facts about what is to be protected by the rules, such as food quality, but also of facts about the activities that are regulated. Otherwise, it's impossible. We cannot strike the balance that needs to be struck in order to meet the requirement of proportionality without such an understanding. The authorities carrying out official controls shall also provide advice and information, thus facilitating the fulfilment by the individual of its obligations under the law. Understanding the controlled activities makes the advice more effective and that it can be adapted to the operating conditions, thus reducing the risk of unnecessary or disproportionate restrictions. Finally, understanding of the activities reduces the risk of disproportionate concessions being made by control personnel. It is therefore impossible to comply with the proportionality requirements of the Administrative Act without knowledge of the activities regulated. Nevertheless, Madam President, there is no explicit requirement in either Swedish or EU legislation that verifiers should have an understanding of the activity or working environment and its realities over which supervision is to be exercised, i.e. the industries that are controlled. There are provisions requiring examiners to have training in the field as a whole, such as on animal welfare, and to have competence in the performance of the supervision itself, such as knowledge of the legislation. It's important. However, there are no provisions requiring the verifier to have an understanding of the activity in question, such as what it is like to work with animal husbandry. This can be achieved, for example, through your own practical experience or through training that focuses on that understanding. We now have a chance here in Parliament to correct this in the vote the day after tomorrow in the area of the food chain. Someone might ask, "Is there a legal requirement or is it not going to work out?" The authorities are working to strengthen the competence of their staff. Surely forward-looking managers ensure that staff have these skills in recruitment and further training, as well as through contacts and constructive dialogue with the regulated. That's what I did in that role. But reality is not perfect. There are times when the manager is not forward-looking and other things are allowed to play a greater role, such as a lack of resources or whether there is strong media pressure or strong political pressure in any direction. It is therefore important that there is a provision which makes it clear that it is necessary to ensure that supervisory staff have an understanding of the activities in question. It is about legal certainty and efficiency. At the same time, if your answer is that we do not need a provision requiring this competence, you have said that we do not need the other provisions requiring other powers of supervisory staff either. Then it would also solve itself by the day-to-day work of authorities and managers. By voting for the Swedish Democrats' motion number 2, it is voted that there is a legal requirement that persons who carry out supervisory tasks vis-à-vis traders should have an understanding of the activities in question, for example through their own practical experience of similar activities. Then there will be an end to strange government decisions at the time of supervision. This will put an end to unrealistic expectations and ineffective bans. That'll put an end to disproportionate concessions. Then demands will be made that combine high target compliance with realistic conditions to succeed in meeting the requirements for the nutrition operator. I note that it is more common for us to debate how much or little regulation we should have. This issue is also important, but I think that the question of how we make regulation work well, effective and fair is even more important. We can decide on that the day after tomorrow. Don't miss that chance! Madam President, I would like I would just like to mention, as a matter of urgency, another of our pleas. With the proposal in the proposal that there should no longer be annual charges for certain checks, but that charges for actual checks should be levied instead, there is a risk that the charges will be passed on to the individual operator. That is why a ceiling needs to be set that protects entrepreneurs from unpredictable costs – a kind of high cost protection if you like. This is particularly important when policies want to increase the frequency of controls. And it can actually be important to do that sometimes.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-328	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the proposal in the report and also say that, because of the Corona situation, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, the government parties, have coordinated themselves in a joint speech that I am now making. Today, the debate is about new rules on food control. There will be less hassle for entrepreneurs, improved conditions for food manufacturers, safer food for consumers and an adaptation to the EU common rules. Madam President, I would like I would first like to say something about the European Union. In many debates in this House, we have touched on the green hand of the European Union, the Green Deal. Although this proposal is not specifically related to the green man, there is an important part of the green man named from farm to table. The food chain is characterised by precisely that, and the control of food also takes place at all stages: in the cultivation of vegetables, fruit and other crops, in livestock farming, in hunting and fishing, in the storage and sale of food and in the production of water, which is our most important food. Official controls cover all stages of production, processing, distribution and use. Food control shall always be risk-based, effective and effective. It shall be equivalent and legally secure. The aim of Swedish food control is to ensure that consumers are given safe food, that they are not fooled about what the food contains and that information about the food is easy to understand. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention some of the most important improvements to these new legislative proposals. There will now be an opportunity to buy under hidden identity for the control authorities. It aims to effectively control food and other products offered for sale, in particular in the area of e-commerce. I do not think anyone in this House would think that an unannounced inspection visit to a producer would be a wrong way of carrying out control work. Purchases with hidden identity is just one way to make an unannounced check in an e-commerce situation. It is most remarkable that the Moderates oppose that proposal. The second issue that really needs to be raised is that compulsory ex-post charging should now be introduced for food control fees. This means that food business operators will have to pay their inspection fee after a verification visit has been carried out, rather than now in advance, at the beginning of each calendar year, regardless of whether or not they receive a verification visit. In this way, there will be a clearer link between control and payment. It also enhances the legitimacy of the levy and helps to ensure that control is perceived as more equivalent. Post-debiting makes it clearer to companies what they pay for. This can also make companies feel that the system is much fairer. Control costs themselves are something that engages us politicians. We are many members of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture who have participated in discussions on inspection fees, most recently in the case of Eldrimner's list of problems. Eldrimner is the National Centre for Food Crafts. They suggest that coordination between different control actors should be improved and that the Swedish Food Safety Agency's hourly rates should be reviewed for companies with smaller volumes and lower turnover. They believe that there is a need for a reasonable analysis, which I also think is a reasonable issue to discuss further. The removal of the annual cost of controls from food businesses is certainly a step forward in terms of the conditions for these companies. I would also like to say that the dialogue I have heard between the Swedish Food Administration and entrepreneurs at Eldrimner's seminars bodes very well. I would like to pay all credit to the actors who are conducting constructive discussions on solutions to problems that exist. At the meetings, the Finnish Food Safety Agency has shown a spirit of service towards small businesses, which I think is commendable. I would like to commend the Swedish Food Safety Agency and other control authorities for having a very active job in improving the service in the control work against companies. Madam President, I would like There is one party, the Swedish Democrats, which questions that control should be carried out by private actors on behalf of the state. If the Swedish Democrats were to decide, then control bodies accredited by the state accreditation company Swedac and all forms of self-control would be discontinued. The Swedish Democrats also believe, as we have just heard from the pulpit, that certain officials in government agencies would do a bad job. I do not think that the kind of expressions of dissatisfaction that the Swedish democrats are spreading should be unopposed. Food control is a socially important activity and it is important that it works and constantly improves. The Government systematically monitors the results of the inspection, including in connection with the annual government dialogue with the Swedish Food Administration and the county administrative boards. The Finnish Food Authority also makes an annual report to show how food control develops and improves.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-341	Madam President, I would like We were mentioned in the speech. That's why I wanted to take a line. What we say in our follow-up motion about purchases under hidden identity is that you should exhaust all other options before using it. It's supposed to be a last resort if you want to think of someone with something. We believe that official control and official work should be transparent and clear, especially on the food side. That is why we have the reservation on hidden identity. So we have not completely opposed the whole thing. But we think it should be used restrictively and be the last resort. It was mentioned in the speech that what is proposed would lead to less hassle. That is something I welcome. I very much hope that this will lead to less hassle. We have been talking for many years about reducing the hassle, regulatory burden and administrative burden in the food sector, precisely because the industry itself thinks it is a burden. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Green Party about this uneven assessment, which is widely heard from the industry. How can we get a more equal assessment? It seems that there is an incredible difference between different inspectors and different inspectors. I was not going to mention it, but there is a not too old report that talks about government activism. What is the Green Party's position on this question? Could it be part of an incredibly uneven assessment when it comes to the food sector?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-346	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal regarding purchases under hidden identity is that a control authority should have the right to buy in food a little secret when it is necessary to check that the food complies with the applicable requirements. The operator shall be informed of the purchase made under a hidden identity and of the result as soon as it has received it. The Government's assessment is that the Food Act, the Act on Feed and Animal By-products and the Act on the Control of Protected Designations of Agricultural Products and Food should introduce a provision giving this right to the control authorities. There are other legislations in which we have introduced the possibility of buying in products for control. Among other things, the Swedish Chemicals Agency can do so when they buy products via e-commerce. There, too, practical things have become apparent. Since it is often not possible to order things online if you are not a single person, individual officials need to use their own name for these purchases. It's a very bad solution. I think this is a practical and good solution. It also provides the opportunity to make the corresponding unannounced visit, fixed for e-commerce.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-349	Madam President, I would like I didn't get an answer to my question. So it's still there. When it comes to hidden identity, it sounds to the government that it is something that should be used very restrictively. Well, that's good, then. That's what the Moderates have been exercising about. Then we should have said yes to that reservation, I think. But, as I said, we have not opposed it; we think it should be used with great restraint. I see bigger problems with official control. The representative of the Swedish Democrats highlighted many worrying examples. We need to get away from that. In fact, if the industry or companies feel that there is a problem with public control, that they do not get a fair or legally certain assessment, I believe that there is a risk that they will choose to close down their activities rather than continue. What we need to come up with is how the whole piece of government works in relation to the purely theoretical proposals in this. That is why I think it is interesting to hear how the Green Party and the Government are opposed to government activism and to the fact that it is such an uneven assessment depending on which controller you get or where in the country you are. Should the trader, for example, be able to request a change of controller? Should the entrepreneur in a control from the municipality because of bad personal chemistry, for example, be able to say, no, I want that municipality to come and control me instead. Because this doesn't work? It would be interesting to hear the environmental party's and the government's assessment of those opportunities.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the question! In my speech, I mentioned Eldrimner's list of problems, on the subject of equivalent controls. It is an example of how companies have come together and pointed out problems that they experience and that are about when controls have not always worked well. One example mentioned here is that control operators do not always have all the knowledge that they would need when visiting a small-scale dairy. This is very different from a large-scale dairy. The answer from the Swedish Food Administration was that they were happy to see that their own inspectors are trained and can be offered the training that Eldrimner has to learn more about production. This was a very good example of how courteous the Swedish Food Authority is to criticism such as this. They show that they take the criticism constructively instead of throwing out comments such as that it is a matter of government activism or that you pull all the controllers over a comb. Madam President, I would like The question of government activism is taken out of the air, in my opinion. There is a researcher at Örebro University who has written a report and claims that this exists. In Sweden we have legislation that says that government employees can organise themselves exactly as they want in their free time. We shouldn't accuse them of being activists at work.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-356	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me what specific measures I and the government intend to take with a view to influencing Mahmud Abbas and the Palestinian leadership to immediately cease the spread of anti-Semitism and whether I will act in order to review Sweden's official relations with the rulers of the West Bank in view of what he describes as the Palestinian leadership's pronounced Jewish hatred and refusal to comply with demands for an end to all forms of anti-Semitism. I answered a similar parliamentary question(2020/21:1548) on 10 February. The government condemns anti-Semitism and other forms of racism and, of course, rejects all expressions of anti-Semitism, wherever and by whomever they are presented. These are the expectations we have for all countries – both in Europe and the Middle East and elsewhere – and this is a position that Sweden is regularly in front of. Since the interpellant specifically mentions statements made by President Abbas in a speech to the Alestin National Council in April 2018, I would like to draw his attention to the clear criticism and need for an apology that Sweden then made. On May 4, 2018, a statement was published from President Abbas in which the President apologizes, describes the Holocaust as the most abominable crime in history and rejects anti-Semitism in all its forms. This can also be read about in previous parliamentary responses. Sweden is actively engaged in the fight against anti-Semitism in the EU and in the UN and has contributed to the appointment of a special coordinator against anti-Semitism at the European Commission and a senior UN contact person to combat anti-Semitism. Through our OSCE Presidency in 2021, the Malmö Forum on Remembrance of the Holocaust and Combating Anti-Semitism in October 2021 and the Swedish Presidency of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, IHRA, 2022–2023, the government is working to mobilise the international community in the fight against anti-Semitism. In fact, one of the first major events during the Swedish OSCE Presidency was to hold an expert meeting on anti-Semitism, in which representatives from OSCE participating states, civil society, religious communities and multilateral organisations discussed how broad coalitions can be built to prevent and combat intolerance and discrimination. Palestine and Israel attended this meeting together with other OSCE Mediterranean partners. In addition, as Chairman of the OSSE, I have a special representative against anti-Semitism. The government will continue to fight all forms of anti-Semitism and all attempts to deny, excuse, justify, distort or trivialize the Holocaust. Sweden does not accept and will never accept anti-Semitism.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-362	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer to the interpellation. When the Foreign Minister rejects all forms of anti-Semitism, she speaks not only for the government but for the entire Swedish parliament. No one in this House wants to see primitive hatred take root and poison our society. As an example of efforts to combat anti-Semitism, Ann Linde mentions the government's support for a special coordinator in the EU and a contact person in the UN. She also refers to the rotating presidencies of the OSSE and the IHRA as the appropriate opportunity to raise the issue. This is fundamentally welcome and important. However, my interpellation is specifically about anti-Semitism in Palestinian areas. I am referring to this in the light of the messages that were circulated on the official television channel of the Palestinian Authority on the occasion of the Holocaust Memorial Day this year. Among other things, this television channel reported that before World War II, Jews were hated for their racism and their dirty behavior. Furthermore, the Holocaust was taught to be the price that the Jews paid for their wicked conduct, their conspiracies, and their malice. Madam President, I would like The hatred of Jews did not begin with the Holocaust, and it did not end with Hitler. Deeply repulsive anti-Semitism is not uncommon in the media and public debate in Palestinian areas. Since freedom of the press does not exist, it is the regime that controls the messages that are being transmitted to the population. Thus, anti-Semitism is high in the Palestinian leadership. President Abbas himself has made statements directly related to what was recently distributed on Palestinian television. In May 2018, he said that animosity against Jews was due to their social function in society associated with usury and banking. Hardly pressured by an upset international opinion, Abbas was forced to publish an apology. The Secretary of State takes this on board. But an important question arises: Was the apology serious? Why do Palestinian representatives, under Abbas's leadership, continue to spread the same poor message? Madam President, I would like It is good that the government talks directly about the spread of anti-Semitism in Palestinian areas, but it has had no effect. The truth is that the Palestinian leadership ignores the Swedish government; the spread of anti-Semitism continues unabated. The question is no longer what the government says, but what it does. What are you doing, Ann Linde?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-369	Madam President, I would like The government condemns anti-Semitism and all forms of intolerance wherever and by whoever expresses it. This also applies in the case of the Palestinian television programme mentioned by Lars Adaktusson. Opinions that somehow suggest that the Jews are to blame for the Holocaust are undoubtedly anti-Semitic. However, I must object to the image given by the Palestinian leadership of anti-Semitism. There have been occasions when representatives have expressed anti-Semitism. We have then raised it with Palestinian representatives in clear terms. As I mentioned before, President Abbas has taken a clear stand against anti-Semitism following criticised statements. He has described the Holocaust as the most abominable crime in history and has renounced anti-Semitism in all its forms. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Palestinian leadership has long recognised Israel's right to exist. It has made commitments not to use violence in its efforts to achieve peace. We expect them to continue to comply with these commitments. President Abbas reiterated last December in a UN speech that Palestine adheres to peaceful methods of bringing the conflict to an end in accordance with international law. Sweden should support Palestine in this determination. As is well known, Sweden has long supported efforts to bring an end to the occupation and to a two-state solution based on international law, in which the two countries of Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. The overall focus of Swedish aid to Palestine is precisely on strengthening Palestinian state building and contributing to respect for human rights, strengthening democracy and the rule of law, sustainable economic and environmental development and social inclusive peace. The government is clear in its dialogue with the Palestinian Government on the importance of rejecting violence, hate speech and sedition. We have expectations of all countries. The government will always condemn anti-Semitism. We know that anti-Semitism and racism thrive in prejudice and ignorance and benefit from intolerance, hatred and violence. You can see that in different parts of the world. In Israel and Palestine, Israelis and Palestinians live, admittedly, in each other's immediate vicinity geographically but equally completely apart. The Israeli occupation restricts the freedom of movement of Palestinians in various ways and has affected the lives of generations of women and men in the West Bank and Gaza. The contact points between Israelis and Palestinians are few and distrust is deep. Then the negative stereotypes of the other side tend to take the upper hand. No one can dispute the existence of these in both Palestine and Israel. There is no simple recipe for creating greater understanding and tolerance in such a context, not least when the contradictions are as harsh and the fear and anger so felt in people's everyday lives as in this conflict, which has lasted for more than 70 years.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-376	Madam President, I would like I asked what the government is doing. The Minister for Foreign Affairs replies as she usually does: that anti-Semitism is unacceptable and that this is stated in contacts with the Palestinian leadership. While this is repeated, anti-Semitism takes hold in broad layers of Palestinian society. Jewish hatred and demonization of Israel have become socially accepted after years of hateful propaganda. According to the international organisation Anti-Defamation League, Palestinian territories have the most anti-Semitic population in the world. 87% of Palestinians agree with the claim that people hate Jews because of how they behave. There is no doubt that this is serious and has consequences for Israel and the Jewish people, but also for the opportunities for dialogue and negotiations on a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Palestinian leaders are not capable of anchoring a possible peace settlement with Israel in a population fed with hatred of Jews. The spread of anti-Semitism burns bridges, crushes prospects, and overturns any possibility of compromise with Israel. If the Swedish Government wants to contribute to a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it needs an understanding of this and a willingness to act concretely. Conditional aid, targeted sanctions, downgraded diplomatic relations and clear rejection in international contexts from the Palestinian leadership – all of this, Ann Linde, are reasonable and relevant measures to increase political pressure and to put an end to the spread of anti-Semitic messages by the Palestinian leadership. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable, but if the need for such concrete measures is not heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's quiet, which puts important questions at its head. What are the words about combating all forms of anti-Semitism worth if they are not followed by action? What happens to the international conference on anti-Semitism if the Swedish government as host chooses not to act against a political leadership whose anti-Semitism poisons an entire population? There are probably more than me who would like answers to this, Ann Linde.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-380	Madam President, I would like I object to Lars Adaktusson's unilateral and misleading description of the Ramallah-based Palestinian leadership and that it would cultivate anti-Semitic notions and be engaged in inciting hatred and acts of terror against Israel. Such notions and rhetoric have occurred, and this is of course serious. However, we have reacted to the comments that have been made. We did so, as I have already mentioned, following President Abbas' critical speech in April 2019. The strong reaction from the outside world led President Abbas to withdraw his statement and clearly marked the distance from anti-Semitism. We reacted when statements were made in the name of a Fatah Party Committee in January 2020 in connection with the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, which contained elements that were deeply offensive to anyone fighting anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred. We also reacted when a Palestinian newspaper related to the Palestinian Authority published a report calling for terrorist acts in connection with the World Holocaust Forum in Jerusalem in January 2020. It should be clear that the official and dominant Palestinian line is to seek an end to the conflict with Israel by peaceful means through negotiations whereby borders and other final status issues are agreed and that Israel and Palestine can then live side by side in peace and security. Lars Adaktusson should be able to acknowledge and show support for this. It is easy in a conflict to take sides for one party and uncritically embrace its perspective and nail danger the opponent's errors and flaws. Lars Adaktusson criticizes Palestine often and gladly on various issues, sometimes with some right. My view is that it does not help to promote understanding and better relations between the sides of a conflict by unilaterally supporting one side. The government supports the UN and EU international law-based approach to the conflict and strives to have a good and constructive relationship with both Israel and Palestine, a relationship that also allows for sincere criticism when necessary. Israel and Palestine are two parties which must ultimately agree on a negotiated solution. Blackwashing one side or the other does not move forward. Instead, we should do what we can with others in the international community to help them draw closer together. Anti-Semitism unfortunately exists in Palestine as well as in the EU and other parts of the world as well as in our own country. That cannot be accepted. We must never settle down with that. A consistent, conscious and sustained effort is needed to combat anti-Semitism. It is a work that needs to be done widely at different levels and in different forums, both nationally and regionally as well as internationally. It is more effective to bring about positive change through dialogue and cooperation rather than cutting off relationships. I hope Lars Adaktusson wants to see that too.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-388	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs stands here in Parliament's pulpit and relativises anti-Semitism in Palestinian areas. It is regrettable, though not surprising. I asked a question about the conference that the government is organising this autumn. There are many of us who hope that this conference will be successful. But that presupposes Israel's presence, and no such news has been given to the Government Office. Everyone knows, Ann Linde, that the government has chosen to have close relations with the current Palestinian leadership. Stefan Löfven has said that the ruling Fatah is the dear sister party of the Social Democrats. At the same time, relations with Israel have been driven to the bottom. Since 2014, it is not possible for either Stefan Löfven or Ann Linde to conduct dialogue in Jerusalem. Six and a half years have passed, Mrs Wallström has been replaced by Mrs Linde. But the imbalance and the one-sided approach persist. Madam President, I would like It is bad that the government does not intend to take any steps whatsoever to persuade the Palestinian leadership to put an end to hatred against Jews. It certainly does not strengthen the work against anti-Semitism that the government claims to prioritise. The fact that a party imbued with anti-Semitism can be the dear sister party of the Social Democrats does not make things any better. That is deeply problematic, Madam President. Thank you for the debate.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-393	Madam President, I would like It is deeply problematic that Lars Adaktusson is standing in the pulpit of the Riksdag and, although he has better knowledge, claims that the government does nothing against anti-Semitism or rejects anti-Semitic statements. That is very regrettable. The government is clear in its dialogue with representatives of Palestine on the importance of disassociating itself from violence and hate speech. These are expectations that we have on all countries. We do not accept anti-Semitism and other forms of racism in any context. We are engaged in a broad and active international effort to combat anti-Semitism. As I mentioned at the outset, this is happening both in the EU and in the UN and during our current OSCE Presidency. One of the first major events we held in the Swedish OSCE Presidency was an expert meeting on anti-Semitism in which representatives of OSCE participating states, civil society, religious communities and multilateral organisations discussed how broad coalitions can be built to prevent and combat intolerance and discrimination. Palestine and Israel attended this meeting together with other OSCE Mediterranean partners. We intend to make full use of the opportunities offered by Malmö International Forum for Remembrance of the Holocaust and Combating Anti-Semitism in October 2021 as well as Sweden's Presidency in the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, IHRA, 2022 – 2023 to gather the international community around an even more proactive joint work against anti-Semitism. Through the contacts and dialogue we have with both government and civil society in Palestine, we can help to counter anti-Semitism there too. Through Palestinian aid, we are helping to strengthen democracy, human rights and the rule of law. It promotes peace and tolerance and combats violence. Thank you for the debate.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-397	Madam President, I would like On the occasion of Mr Borrell's visit to Moscow earlier in February, Mr Wallmark asked me whether Sweden had sanctioned the trip in advance, if Sweden had supported Josep Borrell's statement that no more sanctions against Russia are in place on the EU side, what I intend to do about the fact that many points before the Foreign Ministers' meetings are not included as formal points of discussion and what analysis I am making of what Borrell's visit to Moscow entails for the EU. Markus Wiechel has asked whether I was aware of Josep Borrell's trip to Moscow and how I looked at it, what consequences the trip will have for the EU and for the relationship between the EU and Russia, whether I have expressed my views to the Commission, and how I view departure claims made against Josep Borrell. The EU High Representative has the right of initiative within the framework of the common foreign and security policy. For Member States such as Sweden, which strive for greater efficiency and greater impact on the EU's common policies, this is important. We should safeguard the High Representative's ability to make statements and to carry out EU policies in other ways. Of course, it is up to the High Representative to properly represent the policy that has been decided in the Council. The High Representative's trip had been discussed with the Member States, both during topical issues at the Council meeting on 25 January and in the preparatory committees in Brussels. However, it is important to point out that such discussions do not aim to guide the action of the High Representative in detail. I won't be working for Borrell to be removed. Overall, we share Borrell's conclusions from his trip to Russia. I met the EU Foreign Ministers on 22 February – on Monday – to discuss the next step concerning the EU's relationship with Russia, and the outcome of Borrell's trip was taken into account there. At the meeting of the EU Board on 22 January, I informed that the government does not exclude further restrictive measures. This was also what I said at the Council meeting on 25 January. I understood that there was already a consensus in the Council at the time that sanctions were an alternative. Later, on 19 February, I have also consulted the EU Council on this position. I noted that following the Moscow press conference, the High Representative clarified that the next step for the EU would be discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting on 22 February and that sanctions were not excluded. He was even clearer about this in his speech to the European Parliament after the trip. I share the frustration expressed by Mr Wallmark on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Ministers' meetings. I can repeat what I have said in the EU Council: we want to be able to prepare well, and I want to consult with Parliament in a good way. I myself and other Swedish representatives make regular comments on the agenda and remind you of our need for parliamentary support. It should be noted that yesterday's agenda for the Council had a better balance between topical issues and points of discussion. I hope this is because the High Representative and the External Action Service have taken on board our views. The events surrounding Borrell's journey demonstrate the need for close cooperation between the Member States and the High Representative. At all times, we need a common understanding of European policy. Long-term and strategic discussions can contribute to this. It was therefore welcome that Russia was discussed at the Council meeting yesterday. It is essential that the EU remains united in its common Russia policy, based on the five guiding principles that we reaffirmed last October. These five principles include a position of principle against Russia's aggression in eastern Ukraine, strengthened engagement in the Eastern Partnership, resilience to Russian influence operations, selective engagement with Russia on issues of interest to the EU and support for civil society in Russia. The principles remain a flexible framework for responding over time to negative Russian action and at the same time testing Russia's willingness to cooperate on issues where the EU has an interest. I share Mr Borrell's conclusions after his meeting that Russia is currently showing little will for constructive dialogue or cooperation.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-408	Madam President, I would like After all, there are some who have extra-notified themselves to the debate, so we will have to see this as a connection to tomorrow's major foreign policy debate in connection with the declaration that will be presented. There is good reason to believe that both the EU and Russia will be affected there. Madam President, I would like I think we all have respect for having a bad day at work. The problem is that one must not have too many bad days if one is the EU's High Representative and responsible for the foreign policy line within the EU. In my opinion, Borrell has a little too many bad days, and the one in Moscow was exceptionally bad. One can say that timing – as it is called in modern Swedish, Madam President – could have been better when Borrell visited and met Lavrov and when he was also embarrassed. I am not the one who claims that, but this is the review that Josep Borell's journey to Moscow has been given by independent assessors and media. The High Representative of the European Union has also taken it on board, because when he re-reported to the European Parliament, he was much more humble and realized what pits he had trampled in. To mark the bad timing, one can mention the mock trials against Aleksej Navalnyj after Putin's underwear poisoning of him. One can also mention the violence shown against the courageous demonstrators who demand freedom and righteousness in Russia and who are defeated, imprisoned and arrested. There are three diplomats who are being thrown out on completely incorrect grounds, as the Swedish Foreign Minister has also confirmed with regard to the Swedish diplomat. In that situation, going to Moscow and also being quite unprepared is not good. It can be described as exceptionally poor timing. What is understood from the foreign minister's reply is also that other countries – and I assume, hope and assume that Sweden was one of them – had explained what was about to happen. This with Navalnyj and the demonstrations was quite obvious, but three diplomats would also be thrown out in principle when Borrell was in Russia. Madam President, I would like I think Josep Borrell is quite good at statements. What I am calling for is action on the part of the European Union. Action can only arise if countries like Sweden are pushing, demanding and demanding responsibility, not so much against Josep Borrell as against those countries that destroy the security regime. This is now happening in Europe, but it also applies to China's actions in Hong Kong and against Xinjiang and the threats in Taiwan. This requires action – not just a hot fax machine in Josep Borrell's room. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister also referred to the meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers yesterday. For my part, she is happy to develop a little more what was said and exactly how it came about. After all, the answer is given before the updated meeting, so the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be happy to say something about what happened during the deliberations. The brutal truth is that the reality is going in the wrong direction when it comes to Russia. As I said, we have seen a mock trial against Navalnyj, demonstrations being suppressed and diplomats being thrown out on false grounds. That, Madam President, requires action – not words.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-416	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply and for this very urgent debate, which, as Mr Wallmark said, is certainly the beginning of tomorrow's very interesting and fun debate. Josep Borrell's trip to Moscow was not very successful; most people would agree with that. The Foreign Minister said in his reply that she shares Borrell's conclusions on the journey, but this really has nothing to do with the very confidence in him as a person and his way of acting. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also said that it is important for him to have his own room for manoeuvre and responsibility in his role. That is, of course, true, and it is precisely in view of this that it is particularly important for him to act properly and to be able to deal with situations such as the one we saw in Moscow. This applies not least to visits to authoritarian countries such as Russia, which is, of course, a direct security threat to Sweden and the EU and is currently engaged in war in Europe. On the contrary, we see the opposite in the EU's current Head of Foreign Affairs. We have seen how peaceful demonstrators have been knocked down during this visit. We have seen how Mr Borrell quite wrongly – I hope – has said that the EU will not impose any further sanctions on Russia. We saw him passively standing by the Russian Foreign Minister while Russia scornfully expelled three European diplomats, one of whom was known to be Swedish. We saw the ridiculous mock trials of opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj going on without any further demands from Borrell for release or any further demands to meet with the opposition leader or his staff. We have simply seen how he has repeatedly screwed up and that he was unable to deal with this situation. Nevertheless, the Foreign Minister does not think that he should resign – I find that odd – despite the damage it has caused to the EU Member States. Madam President, I would like Everyone can have a bad day, just like Hans Wallmark said. Everyone can have a bad day at work. Everyone can fail sometimes. But there are limits. Social Democrat Josep Borrell is the EU's foremost representative for foreign affairs. He is there to ensure that the Union has a strong impact on a common line. He exists to protect our interests towards countries such as Russia. The result of this scandal journey was the opposite. Borrell became Russia's useful idiot when Sweden and the rest of the EU were humiliated. Borrell will be used by Putin as a tool to hit Europe. What I ask myself is how the Swedish Government can think it is okay with such a representative.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-423	Madam President, I would like The EU's Foreign Secretary, Josep Borrell, is one of the EU's leading representatives. Of course, we must safeguard the High Representative's ability to make statements and to carry out EU policies in other ways. However, this does not mean that the High Representative can make any statements, but he must follow the Council's decisions on various issues and represent the policies decided on there. So far, we agree. But, Madam President, what is this soup really about? Mr Borrell, the EU's Foreign Secretary, has travelled to Moscow and has had a press conference with the Russian Foreign Minister Sergej Lavrov, where he has clearly announced that the EU is not planning any new sanctions against Russia. We have also seen how the EU's Foreign Secretary and the Russian Foreign Minister, side by side, voiced criticism of US policy. But nothing was mentioned about Russia's massive aggression, challenging the European security situation, or about Russia's violation of international law. Madam President, I would like On 17 January, Russian opposition leader Alexej Navalnyj was arrested. Despite the fact that several EU Member States have called for sanctions at the highest level, Borrell has made it clear that there is no ambition whatsoever on the part of the EU to impose new sanctions on Russia as a result of what has happened to Navalnyj. In addition, three foreign diplomats, including one Swedish, have recently been expelled for allegedly participating in a demonstration in favour of Navalnyj and for democracy and freedom of expression. Madam President, I would like Russia is a dictatorship that repeatedly violates the right to freedom of expression and opinion. What is shocking about this soup is that the EU's main foreign representatives are not taking a clear stand against the dictatorship of Russia, which is carrying out a massive repression of political opponents. So this is the EU's Foreign Affairs Commissioner who shows that he can ignore following the Council's policy; he can do whatever he wants. Although Borrell has acted against the Council and mismanaged her mission and despite all his statements, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde says that she will not demand his resignation. He lacks confidence after this. Madam President, I would like I have no answer as to why he should remain in office at all, given his actions and his lack of confidence. It is not enough to discuss Borrell's journey alone. Sweden must clearly take a stand and work for his resignation.
i-CbNXvww1ymjZT6ruveACNb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you, too, Mr Wallmark and Markus Wiechel for having tabled the two interpellations concerning Borrell's visit to Moscow and the meeting with Lavrov! There are very many of us who find it highly problematic that a high-ranking EU representative on his own initiative chooses to represent the EU with a highly personal line. When you sit in the position that Borrell currently sits on, clarity is expected, especially when carrying out this type of travel. The journey was politically sensitive, and unfortunately there was a great lack of clarity in Borrell's appearance. Furthermore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament had stated that he would not leave at all. Now he did, and I agree with the rest of this debate that it can only be seen as a failure. The widespread criticism – Wallmark spoke of a review – which took place in the aftermath was telling enough. Apart from the fact that the High Representative had obviously not done his homework for the meeting, it has been described as degrading to the EU. Markus Wiechel spoke of confidence in the European Union, and Mr Wallmark had a question in his interpellation that is very clear, namely what the consequences of this visit are for the European Union. I do not think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly explained in his reply what the consequences for Europe will be, so I wish I could have some further answers in that part. During the meeting with Borrell, Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said, among other things, that the EU is an unreliable partner. He also said that European leaders such as Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron lied about the poisoning of opposition critic Navalnyj. Lavrov also openly criticised the USA about Cuba. Mr Borrell did not respond to the criticism of either the EU or the US and also announced that the EU is not planning new sanctions against Russia at all. This is remarkable. Madam President, I would like Not only is this wrong, but it also seriously affects the confidence of the European Union to pursue foreign policy. Mr Borrell himself has said that foreign policy cannot be reduced to written statements from my office. That hardly makes things any better. I interpret the foreign minister's response here today as sharing Borrell's conclusions from his trip to Moscow. However, I wonder, aside from my previous question about the consequences of this for the European Union, whether she does not think it is damaging to trust and serious when the EU's highest representative does not stand up for our common values and mark against Russia, for example when Lavrov criticises the European Union or claims that Merkel has lied about poisoning. Finally, Madam President, I have a question for the Foreign Minister. She referred to yesterday's meeting of foreign ministers. As far as I understand, Mr Antony attended this meeting. Then I wonder if Antony Antony said anything about whether there are criticisms even from the United States because Lavrov also criticized the United States at this meeting.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-438	Madam President, I would like Sweden is working towards greater efficiency and impact in the EU's foreign and security policy. An important part of this is that the High Representative has the right of initiative to pursue a policy that is in the interests of the EU. At the same time, as the inter-pillars have said, he is going to present a policy that reflects the Member States, particularly on an important and sensitive issue such as the common Russian policy. Yesterday's discussion on Russia's policy was part of ensuring this consensus. I note that, before Mr Borrell's trip, a few Member States felt that he should not travel. A dominant majority thought he would travel, including Sweden. Yesterday, no one demanded his resignation, not a single country, not anyone, but a unanimous support for Borrell. He has made it very clear in retrospect that there was a misunderstanding that there were no further sanctions. There was not, because we decided on them yesterday because, among other things, I and many with me were pushing it – and there were additional sanctions. Technically, we decide to impose sanctions, and then we do a list of people. After reconciliation, for us in the EU Board, the formal decision comes. We hope that this time it will go fairly quickly. I know from my own experience that meetings with Lavrov can be very challenging. But difficult times require difficult talks, and that is why I went there, mainly as a representative of the OSSE but also of Sweden, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Finland Pekka Haavisto was there last week and Borrell went there. The EU has a very clear five-principle approach to Russia, as I explained in my reply. This is what Borrell was going to discuss, which he did. His conclusion, like mine and Haavistos, is that Russia does not want to cooperate with the EU. It wants to work with individual countries on individual issues. That is why it is even more important for the EU to stand together and not undermine the High Representative, but to give him the EU's support. It is not about Josep Borrell, it is about the High Representative of the European Union. It is essential that the European Union is united in its Russia policy and that we vigorously defend the interests and values of the European Union. We all know what problems exist in Russia, and it is definitely going in the wrong direction in several ways. Neither the EU nor, for that matter, Sweden benefits from undermining the role of the High Representative. I note that Mr Borrell could have been clearer in his presentation of the EU's principled Russia policy. It is the responsibility of the High Representative to clearly represent the Council's agreed policy in its relations with Russia. Finally: No, Antony Antony had no criticism of Borrell.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-447	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister says that the EU's High Representative should not be undermined, and that is quite right. The problem is that the EU High Representative is undermining his own role. I would like to stress, also in relation to some of the previous speeches, that my attack is not aimed at Europe or the European Union. I am pleased with the Union and the Community and I am in favour of having a High Representative. Ultimately, however, he seems, although he has some free drawing rights, under the conditions laid down by other countries, that is to say, the Member States. So my criticism of Borrell affects Member States like Sweden with greater force, because it is they who set the framework within which the High Representative of the European Union acts. Madam President, I would like Let me be very frank. A government other than the Social Democratic would probably have advised Josep Borrell to go to Moscow under those conditions. Madam President, I would like I would also like to make it clear that I have never criticised our Foreign Minister for her trip to Moscow. I think it was reasonable and correct. Given what happened in Moscow during Borrell's visit, it was right that Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto was also there. I must say, however, that I am surprised that a Member State such as Sweden thinks it reasonable for the EU High Representative to be in Moscow while Russia intends to throw out a Swedish diplomat, a German diplomat and a Polish diplomat without any factual basis. I think it is wrong for a Member State such as Sweden to say that it is okay for the EU High Representative to be in Moscow while the mock trial is taking place against Aleksej Navalnyj after he has been poisoned by Putin. I think it is wrong, above all given the outcome of Josep Borrell's journey, that no more could be done to stand on the side of the demonstrators and the opposition. It is not a criticism of Europe. It is not a criticism of the role of the EU High Representative. However, it is a criticism of the conditions that Member States impose on the EU High Representative. Madam President, I would like Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think it is good that Sweden has been a driving force when it comes to additional sanctions. It is also gratifying that the new legislation that we in Sweden call the Magnitsky legislation is now being used. This means that a number of people who have been practically responsible for human rights violations in Russia are now being hunted. In addition, there is a deafening majority in the Swedish Parliament that believes that other sanctions should be added, for example against Nord Stream 2. I assume that the Minister raised this at Monday's meeting, and I am convinced that this will be the subject of tomorrow's foreign policy debate. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the government, together with equal-minded countries, has pushed through other agendas, because it enables us in parliaments to democratically monitor, examine and impose demands on the representatives of the Member States. It is a strong frontal shift for the better than before. That, Madam President, is good.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-460	Madam President, I would like I am also in favour of the sanctions that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has tried to impose and, as we know, has come about much because a majority in the European Council wanted to do so. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who, although not every day, may sometimes be needed. She is often very fast in her role and has a keen ability to analyse. That is precisely why I am a little perplexed about how we have acted in this case where Mr Borrell has mismanaged his role so badly that the whole of Europe is actually ashamed. There are a number of basic measures which he should have taken on the ground in order not least to symbolise where the Union stands. As I said, he is the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and symbolises the whole of the EU. For example, not marking clearly and clearly against obvious violations of human rights, false trials and so on is strange. For example, not leaving when Russia expels three diplomats from Europe is also extremely strange. The question is: Where is the limit on how much Sweden can tolerate the High Representative's mismanagement of his mandate? I personally think that limit has been crossed. Where's the line, anyway?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-464	Madam President, I would like I still do not understand why the Swedish Foreign Minister will not work for Borrell's resignation. The minister must start to be upright. After all, she is the Swedish Foreign Minister. I would like to know exactly what further restrictive measures it is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions, when she and the government are not going to work for Borrell's resignation. Not least in the light of the fiasco we saw during the visit, it is especially important to have a powerful marker. Can we even expect this from the Foreign Minister?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-466	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I understand that the Foreign Minister is saying that undermining the High Representative does not benefit the EU. I would have liked to have heard more about the opposite, that is, when the High Representative is undermining the EU and what its significance is. I would like to make a statement: do not interfere in our internal affairs – that is unacceptable! That was the response from the Russian government quarter in the Kremlin after the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR, called on Russia to release the opposition politician Navalnyj. Russia indicates that it no longer complies with the ECHR's calls. The Russian Minister of Justice calls the decision an unprecedented intervention in the work of the Russian courts. It's hard but clear words. Relations with Russia are very strained. Mr Wallmark spoke in his first speech on timing. I agree with the Foreign Minister that it was welcome that yesterday the Foreign Ministers decided on sanctions against Russia. The Moderates have long taken a tougher hold. The situation in Russia is serious, with deteriorations in democracy and human rights. My final question, Madam President, is: how does the Foreign Minister intend to work for the government to be clearer towards Russia and for the EU to speak with one voice, as the Foreign Minister himself raised?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-471	Madam President, I would like To begin with the answer to how to mark against Borrell: We will not mark against Borrell. As I said earlier, none of the EU's 27 government representatives – 27 foreign ministers from Social Democratic, bourgeois and mixed governments – demanded Borrell's resignation. On the contrary, there was support for how he has handled the situation afterwards, because he realized himself that things had not turned out well. Then he became very clear that there will be sanctions and how we will deal with the criticism of the three diplomats, our criticism of Navalny's mock trial and so on. As far as restrictions are concerned, there are no restrictions on Borrell, but there are restrictions on Russia. According to the Magnitsky sanction regime, a number of people who were responsible for the human rights abuses are listed. That is what is being done now: a number of people are being set up. They're the ones who get restrictions, not Borrell. It is very important that Sweden's role and policy towards Russia is clear and principled. Jessika Roswall asked us how to become even clearer. I find it difficult to say that one can be clearer than me and Sweden are against Russia. This does not mean, however, that we have a policy of isolation; on the contrary, we have a two-track policy towards Russia. We are constantly observing when Russia violates human rights and international law, as in Ukraine, for example. Then we should be clear in the criticism, but where there is interest, for example, in climate, health and the environment, we should be able to have cooperation and people-to-people contacts. We have a strategy to promote democratic development in Russia. Julia Navalnaja called me up on Friday, and we had a long conversation. It is important that we have contacts with the opposition on how to carry out the work. I also had a long talk with Volkov, who is Navalnyj's political director. How to promote democratic development in Russia while increasing so-called foreign agents? People and organisations are therefore called foreign agents only because they operate in support of other countries. How are we gonna do this? We have almost 400 million in support of democratic efforts in Russia, but it will be difficult when they have to stamp themselves that they are foreign agents. It is stigmatising and problematic, but it can still be supported in different ways. Within the EU, we fully support the five guiding principles of the EU's relationship with Russia. There, the EU's relations with civil society are a particularly important component.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-476	Madam President, I would like I think there were more people who were amazed when Josep Borrell announced that there would be no further sanctions. Now it turned out that he had to eat that several times over. He made his Canossa migration to the European Parliament, and the Foreign Ministers of the European Union were already able, at yesterday's meeting in Brussels, to gather behind the first lists of sanctions in accordance with the so-called Magnitsky legislation. That's good. But that is precisely why I and others were surprised, to put it mildly, that he was able to announce that there would be no sanctions. It was not sanctioned, to put it that way. But the result last Monday was far better than Borrell's statement in Moscow. I think it is a good thing that the new legislation in place, which we call the Magnitsky legislation, is now being used. I also wish that we would see more countries pushing for the use of Nord Stream 2 as a sanction tool. To this we will come back tomorrow, Madam President. The Foreign Minister mentioned the five guiding principles, and I think some of them are good. At the same time, I think it is important to say that it is not a one-track or two-track policy or even a three-track policy, but that we should pursue the right kind of policy. Then it must not be the case that behind formulations about climate, the environment and people-to-people contacts conceal the criticism that one has. The principles include Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The war has continued since 2014. With regard to strong engagement in the Eastern Partnership, there has just been a communication today on what is happening in Georgia. And we have what is happening in Moldova, so it does not seem to be moving in the right direction. And so we must have resistance to Russian influence operations that are going on. Madam President, I would like My final question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not agree that Mr Borrell's trip to Moscow was a failure?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-481	Madam President, I would like It is almost as if Hans Wallmark has read my mind, because that is precisely the question I was going to raise here. I have not heard so far that the Foreign Minister himself has called the trip a failure, which is sad given that she herself has done very well on her own Moscow trip. It is not the journey itself that is the problem, but how to act during such a journey and how to tackle this type of regime. Russia is not just any regime. It wages war in Europe. It is a clear security threat not only to Sweden but to the whole of Europe. It wants to destabilise the EU in different ways. The intelligence business in Sweden is larger than in a very long time, perhaps larger than ever. There are therefore several reasons why there should be clear views on Borrell's journey to Moscow and the essence of this journey. But I will stop by the question that Mr Wallmark also asked: how does the Foreign Minister himself view this?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-484	Madam President, I would like It is important that Sweden and the EU stand united in their common Russia policy. In the light of developments in Russia, a balanced and strategic implementation of the principles is more urgent than for a long time. This requires close cooperation both between the Member States and with the High Representative. It is not in Sweden's interest for a split to arise in the way Russia policy is designed or for the High Representative to be undermined. It was positive that the Member States yesterday confirmed the consensus that exists and that we agree on the direction of new restrictive measures, or sanctions as we say in Sweden, against Russia. The government will continue to operate both within the EU and bilaterally to break the negative trend of civil society space, democracy and human rights in Russia. It is essential that we maintain support for civil society organisations and strengthen the work of people-to-people. Through unity in the EU and support for democratic development in Russia, we are building security in our own area.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-487	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether the government intends to take any measures to increase the safety of those who have the road as a workplace, and what measures will then be taken. First of all, I would like to emphasise that I take very seriously the fact that someone has been injured or killed on our roads. It is particularly regrettable if this affects any of those who have the road as their place of work. The government is working purposefully and systematically to improve road safety as well as the working environment on the country's roads. We have set an ambitious interim target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2030, which of course includes those who are killed in traffic while they are doing their work. In addition to the planned investments in infrastructure that will contribute to increased road safety, the Government has made a special effort to improve information for citizens and road users in order to improve road safety. The effects are expected to increase speed compliance. Another measure we have implemented is a ban on the use of mobile phones or other communication equipment while travelling by motorised vehicle. We have also introduced requirements for heavy-duty vehicles to have winter tyres on all axles on winter roads. In particular, in order to protect those who have the road as a workplace, the Government last year commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the safety of staff performing work within or in connection with the road area where they propose, among other things, a clearer protection for certain occupational groups working on the roads. The Swedish Transport Agency's investigation is now being consulted. The Government has also developed a strategy for health and safety at work for the period 2021 – 2025. One stated goal in it is that no one should risk life or health because of the job. In order to make the work more concrete, the Swedish Work Environment Authority, among others, has been tasked with developing and implementing an action plan in this area. With this, I can assure Thomas Morell that the government is actively working to strengthen the safety of those working on and on the roads.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-494	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his reply. We have discussed this earlier in this House not so long ago. But what made me write this interpellation was the effort of the traffic police at Hallandsåsen. There 66 drivers were reported for speeding. Of these 66 drivers, 55 were withdrawn. This measurement was thus carried out at a workplace where people stood and worked along the road. Thus, out of 66 reported drivers, 55 lost their driving licence. What is even worse is that the police said: We could have taken even more if there were more of us. It shows, as one policeman says, that the respect of road users is gone. You don't care about the people who have the road as a workplace. Whether it is people who fix and repair the road, towers, rescue services, ambulances, police officers or others who have the road as a workplace, you don't care. A couple of weeks ago, I was talking to a trucker in the bus business. His driver had suffered something really eerie. He had stopped to drop a child off the school bus. The children are escorted across the road to make it go well. When the boy gets out of the bus, there will be a car on the inside and driving over, because he could not drive over on the right side. When you have lost respect for the lives and health of others, something is wrong. Not long ago, I was talking to a traffic cop. He had helped a couple of car inspectors in Gävle. He went there in a painted car and carried out the passport. Then he would go back to his station. Then he was overtaken by a passenger car. He made a measurement of this passenger car. It was so fast that the driver lost his driver's license. When the policeman stopped this driver, he asked him if he had not seen that it was a police car that he was driving by. The comment from this driver was: Yes, but you don't do this anymore, do you? So this driver didn't think the police were doing speed checks anymore. The policeman then said: Now you drove past the wrong police car, because this is a traffic cop. This ended with the driver losing his driving licence. That is why I am a little confused about the answer I have received from the Government when he says that citizens' and road users' information should be provided for increased road safety. The effects are expected to increase speed compliance. Then I have to ask the question: do you really believe it yourself when road users have so completely lost respect for other people's lives and health on the road? You don't even care about dropping the gas when you see a police car but even drive past it so fast that you lose your driver's license. Then something's wrong. This can be traced to the effect that it has been along the roads for so many years when you have removed the living police and set up a post instead. This has made drivers feel that breaking the rules is completely harmless. It puts other people's lives at risk. I think it's sad.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-505	Madam President, I would like When I saw that it would be a debate that partly concerned the safety of those working on our roads, I felt that I wanted to enter this debate. The reason is that on several occasions I have highlighted a motion in this particular area. I have also taken part in a debate in Almedalen on the safety of those who work in roadwork and who move on our roads in the service. When major road work takes place or there are large machines on the roads, there are tough rules on how to sign and make temporary speed reductions. Often there is a small blue or black sign on the vehicle with a number – 30 or 40. It looks suspicious as a road number and attracts little attention, but it means recommended speed reduction. On the other hand, you must not put up the normal ban signs – yellow with a red ring around. If such signs are to be used, I have received the answer that an official decision must be taken, and the decision cannot be delegated to the site manager or the person responsible for the road work itself. Would it not be a good solution, Minister, to delegate the right to put up a concrete ban sign in connection with road works? The ban sign would be binding on those who pass by, and those who violate the explicit ban would be punished. With all due respect, we know that a recommendation sign does not attract the same attention. Moreover, it is easy to confuse the recommendation signs with road numbers, and no one even understands that they have to do with speed. It was a concrete proposal on my part that I think would make a big difference.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-508	Madam President, I would like I really appreciate the commitment, Thomas Morell and Jan Ericson, to the safety of traffic. It's important. We are living at a time when I often have to face a debate in which some criticise speed reductions, speed controls and increased efforts to monitor speed. It is important that we safeguard the Swedish tradition of zero vision, of road safety, of a vehicle industry that builds increasingly safer vehicles. We want to ensure that we show concern and concern not least for those who work to improve our infrastructure. It's incredibly important. I have been concerned about the speed populism that I have seen spreading in parts of the country and in certain parties. I would like to answer Thomas Morell's question about the traffic information. Actually, it does matter. Although, of course, there are those who will never absorb any information in the world and who obviously ignore the signs of police officers, police vehicles or government regulations, I believe in improved information, clear signage and experimentation in terms of flexible speed monitoring. Research shows that this is being more complied with. It is basically a question of increasing confidence not only in the police but also in the authorities. There we all have a responsibility to ensure that trust exists. It is important to remember to make efforts. During the years 2015 to 2019, three people died in connection with their work on or off the road. There were two rescuers and a flag guard — three for many. It is clear that further efforts must be made to limit the risk. Therefore, there is an investigation that looks over penalties for heavy driving and for drunk driving– they are sometimes combined. The investigation is under way to increase the penalties for those who commit such crimes. The task we have given to the Swedish Transport Agency is to look at various actions, such as the obligation of road users to show consideration when passing a place for salvage or similar work. There are a number of proposals for referral to 1 March 2021. All proposals are welcome, that is to say, Jan Ericson's proposal together with proposals which, not least, Mr Seko has made on increased possibilities for speed monitoring. I am prepared to try many suggestions to ensure the safety of all those who work on the road, not least. There will be more people who will work on the road ahead because the government spends more resources than ever on road maintenance, namely 164 billion. In the budget after the budget, we are pushing for additional resources. I said last summer, or if it was the past summer, when some saw that there was a lot of roadwork to blame me; blame the government. After years of underinvestment, we are now making sure to renovate and repair the Swedish road network. It will need a long time to come after years of underinvestment. But then we must ensure that those who work in the roadwork, or towers or others who work in the road, have a sheltered place and a safe existence. This is where the work environment work is located, where the monitoring possibilities lie, and there is also the background to the assignment given to the Swedish Transport Agency and where proposals have now been submitted that have been submitted for consultation.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-516	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas. Three people have died in connection with road work. Three people are, in my world, very many. It's not just one person who's affected. It could be a father, mother, brother or son. If you look at the circle of people around the deceased, there are many who are affected by a death. A lot of people aren't killed in a hit-and-run. A few years ago, a tow truck was hit at home in Skövde. He lost his leg. He got squeezed between the tow truck and a car where the driver didn't see the tow going on. You can have a lot of perceptions about speed limits, but there is a regulatory framework to deal with. When you break the rules, it should also cost money. If you make it so obvious that you put other people at risk, it must cost money. I've had the road as a workplace myself. It is more than once that cars have passed at a distance of a few inches [100 km] per hour. Look at how we stand in this room right now. I don't think the government would want to stand here if it passed a car at 100 kilometers an hour. They literally strip off one of their clothes. Then we still have blue lights on the roof, which usually have some respect with them. It happened on a number of occasions in the event of road accidents that we simply cut off the traffic to ensure the safety of the rescue workers. There is another aspect to road work. There must also be better order for road workers. When there is road work, signs should be there. When the work has finished, the signs should be removed. Otherwise, road users lose respect for the signs. Let's see how it is. I can recommend the Government to look at frozen roads. The new season premiered yesterday on TV3. Or look at the heroes of the Road. There is not a single section where they are out on the road without someone driving far too fast and too close when they are to tow a vehicle at the roadside. It is a workplace, and we must show respect for those who work there. The effort made by the traffic police at Hallandsåsen, which I mentioned in my interpellation, where 66 drivers were reported and 55 lost the driving licence, shows how something has gone really wrong when one does not respect the speed limits set, nor the people who have the road as a workplace. The other day, a friend of mine got a wheel bearing fire on his vehicle. This means that it stops; you stay where the fault occurs. He went out with fire extinguishers and put out the fire on the vehicle – a heavy vehicle. Then he jumped over the railing and stood a step away to wait for help. At the same time, he filmed how fast other vehicles passed his damaged truck. That reputation still from the wheel with the bearing fire. Vehicles crossed along the side of the entire combination, and no one let go. It's creepy. I would like the Government to go out and talk to to towers and police and look at the workplace. There are measures to be taken and, therefore, opportunities to curb the problems, and I will refer to them in my final speech.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-526	Madam President, I would like Allow me first of all to object a little to the Minister's assertion about road investments. In fact, when the Alliance Government took office in 2006, it was a hugely neglected maintenance of our roads. We spent a record amount of money to fix it. If you look at what it has been like since the 2014 elections, you see that we moderates in each budget have invested as much or more on the roads as the government has done, so that was not a correct description of the minister. When it comes to speed, the Minister mentioned speed activists, and certainly that can be the case. Nevertheless, I believe that people can more easily have respect and a better understanding of temporary speed reductions in connection with, for example, road work or in particularly vulnerable areas along our roads with a high risk of accidents if they feel that otherwise the speed limits are reasonable in relation to the standard of the road. In fact, I believe that this constant effort to just lower and lower is undermining confidence in temporary speed reductions where they are needed. I am not sure that strategy is particularly good. But I must say that I am very pleased that the Minister seems to appreciate my proposal. I do not know if he has heard this particular proposal mentioned before, but I think it should be taken into account. I know that the proposal also has strong support from the trade unions for those who are working on the road. I talked to them, and they thought this was a very good idea. I hope it can become a reality.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-530	Madam President, I would like Thank you for all the good suggestions. They are needed, because we need to do more to strengthen security. It is fascinating, Jan Ericson, that the Moderates now in opposition have chosen to invest more money on the way, but once you had the government power you did not do it enough. It was years of underinvestment that we had to deal with when we took government power. We presented a national plan with SEK 100 billion more for the infrastructure to start the renovation work that was needed both on our roads and, of course, on the rail system. This challenge remains. There is still much to be done to ensure quality. As recently as in the last budget bill, we added almost 11⁄2 billion over three years to roads, not least rural roads, to strengthen the quality there. There's a lot to do. However, we have also done a great deal in terms of road safety. When I took office as Minister of Infrastructure, there was no ban on sitting and talking on the mobile phone while driving. That's what we've introduced. It is clear that only that says everything about how important this is, for one has to focus attention on the road and cannot sit and pay attention to that everything else. We have introduced requirements for winter tyres, which make heavy vehicles better able to stop when they arrive at a road site. There were no requirements for winter tyres on heavy-duty vehicles earlier, because it was considered burdensome for the riders. My firm opinion is that Swedish hauliers have chosen almost exclusively to have good quality of their vehicles and on the tyres. It is sometimes with some foreign companies that you may not have the same experience of what winter road law means, but now the rules apply to both Swedish and foreign road hauliers. Now it's winter tires. I also hope and believe that the police will check and ensure that this is followed. We have increased our efforts properly for what is called speed monitoring. Of course, this is not least about speed cameras but also about other speed monitoring. Respect for speed is important because speed kills. I believe that, together with the use of TMA vehicles, increased police controls and increased awareness, not least through the proposals that the Swedish Transport Agency has now drawn up, this can continue to improve the safety of our roads. Three people are three people too many. Thomas Morell is absolutely right; there are three people who have relatives, relatives and friends. That is why we will do everything we can to ensure that those who really help us to ensure the quality of our roads, those who salvage accidents and others have the most safe working environment possible. Therefore, this government has had the ambition and clear strategy to strengthen work environment management and to target resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and to preventive work. Here, unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats have a rather difficult result. They have been involved in reductions at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, on the previous closure of operations in the area of health and safety at work and on limiting the possibilities for regional safety representatives. For me as a social democrat, this has been extremely important. Safety work is a work carried out by trade unions together with employers at the workplace. They do so together with authorities that can carry out inspections and who, in addition, together with regional safety representatives, should be able to know what the right action is. Here the Swedish Democrats together with the Moderates have made savings. Why have you done that, Thomas Morell?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. If we are to stay on the road – because that is the issue – there is no legal right for either the Swedish Work Environment Agency or trade unions to go out and stop a vehicle and take action when someone has not complied with the legislation. Only the Police Authority can do that, and this government has for a long time shown that it is not investing in the traffic police. In recent years, the curve has just gone down. One of the proposals I will now make to the Government is to get more policemen on the way. We must have that, and it must cost money when we do not comply with the rules. Then we can discuss speed limits and such things; you have to do that in ordinary political order and sort out how it should be. But we have a set of rules, and one should relate to that. If you break the rules, it'll cost you money. If you put other people at risk... because that's what we're talking about right now... in roadwork, traffic accidents, civil protection, and so on, it's gonna cost more money. In other countries, double fines are imposed if the speed limits are not respected, for example, in the case of road construction. I cannot understand why this should be pulled on a long bench, because it is possible to go in and make efforts to ensure the work of those who are on the road. I receive daily calls from drivers or hauliers who have been exposed to incidents on the road. I think it is a bad thing that the government does not take this seriously. Only three people, no-- that's three people too many. There is something we can do about this, but we must move forward in order to achieve it. We need to get cops out on the road and make sure it costs money when you put other people in danger.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-546	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I get a little upset when Thomas Morell says just three people. There are three people who have relatives and families. You shouldn't belittle that. That's three people too much. It is extremely serious when one is killed or injured in one's work, which is much more. Then I can understand Thomas Morell saying, "Let's stay on the road." He avoids the question of resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency or that you want to withdraw resources for regional safety representatives and their work. Systematic protection work is crucial for increasing safety at work. I myself have been the main safety officer for a long time and worked on systematic protection measures in the industry so that people would not hurt themselves there. Equally important is it for those who work in roadwork, salvage or ambulance transport. Swedish employers together with the Swedish trade union movement are doing fantastic work together with the authorities. Here the Swedish Democrats take a different view. Here they want to dismantle some of the protection work and reduce the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency. I do not believe that this will benefit the safety of those who work on the road. When it comes to police inspectors, the police have never, I think, had as many employees as now. We have provided incredibly large resources to the police to strengthen their work. 100 million is earmarked not least for the control of cabotage traffic. We are now investigating a labour inspection precisely to get more checks, not least on professional traffic, on the way. So this is where it's happening. It is under a Social Democratic-led government that we are getting from a mobile phone ban to increased efforts for road maintenance and traffic monitoring. I can share the ambition to move forward faster, and I can sometimes wish it had gone faster. But it is happening now, unlike at the time when we had a moderate government.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-552	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby has asked me what measures I intend to take to speed up the process around the Gothenburg– Borås railway so that not too much development in the municipalities concerned stops and that conflict with national interests should not delay the railway project for a long time. Unlike the Moderates, the government has the ambition not only to build a new railway between Gothenburg and Borås, but also to complete new high-speed rail lines. In order to minimise uncertainties in the planning of the new main routes, the government would have liked a broad political discussion on the financing of the new main routes, but the Moderates have declined to participate, despite a broad commitment to an expansion among municipalities, regions and a large part of the business community. The Finnish Transport Agency has the task of providing information for the areas that the Finnish Transport Agency assesses are of national interest in terms of communications. As the Swedish Transport Administration's planning work for new infrastructure objects continues, it is possible to reduce the scope of the areas that need to be covered by a designation of national interest. The planning work gradually clarifies the prerequisites for future transport infrastructure as well as for other planning. In the admissibility trial of the new main railway part Gothenburg – Borås, the government will take a position on the location of the railway. As a minister, I cannot and must not comment on what assessments the authorities or the government may make on a future individual matter.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-556	Madam President, I would like For over 20 years, new railway between Borås and Gothenburg has been planned. The tours have been many, as have the setbacks. Borås, Gothenburg and the intermediate municipalities have several times consulted the Swedish Transport Administration and the Government. The Alliance government planned to start construction in 2020, but after the election loss in 2014, these plans were dashed – despite the fact that Magdalena Andersson, after a visit to West Sweden during the 2014 election campaign, promised a rapid expansion. The Borås – Gothenburg stretch is very busy, and a well-functioning infrastructure is important for a cohesive labour market region. Today, the train is being removed because of outdated infrastructure and too few departures. This is bad not only for those commuting but also for the environment. The disappointment of those who hoped to see a new, modern railway in the near future is great. But there are still plans, Madam President, and with them there is hope. In the meantime, other problems arise and for the development of municipalities. Several different corridors for the new railway section are drawn up, and the Finnish Transport Agency cannot or does not currently wish to exclude any. There is no development in these potential corridors. No new homes are being built. No urban development is taking place. People who already live in the area are worried and afraid that they will be forced to abandon their homes. The constant setbacks and government's broken promises put a wet blanket over huge areas. This is not sustainable. This process has already been going on for too long and cannot be further extended. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth does not answer the question I asked, but instead tries to blame and hide behind the obvious of what he as a minister cannot or cannot do: I do not want to know, Madam President, what Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth cannot do. I, the burrowers, the Gothenburgers, the people of Landvetter, the people of Bollebygd and all the others waiting for a construction start want to know what the minister actually intends to do. That is why, Madam President, I am now rewording the question and hoping for a better answer: what measures does the Minister intend to take to drive the process around the railways so that not too much development in the municipalities concerned will stop, so that conflict with national interests will not delay the railway project for a long time and that the work commuters will have a better alternative than the car? The difference from the original question, Madam President, is simply that I have replaced the words
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-561	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister is once again trying so hard to doubt the Moderates' line on investment in the railways in Sweden. Let me be very clear: during the alliance years, we made record investments on the railways to equip it after decades of mismanagement from the previous S-government. And since we left government power in 2014, we have moderates in every budget invested as much as the government or more on the railways. As far as new main rail lines are concerned, as my fellow Member, Mr Cecilie Toftby, has already mentioned, we have clearly said that we prefer a traditional high-speed rail to the very expensive high-speed rail lines, simply to get the maximum benefit per bet crown. The high-speed trains would have cost about SEK 400 billion by 2045, and the project has been sawed by leading researchers as well as the National Audit Office and the European Court of Auditors. Madam President, I would like I had a debate with the Minister about new railway between Gothenburg and Borås a couple of weeks ago. Even then, we discussed the situation of all the people affected by the great and far-distant uncertainty about what is to happen to railway construction and where the railways are to be drawn. Already in 2012, the alliance government decided to build a new railway for traditional high-speed trains between Gothenburg and Borås, with a planned construction start in 2019. This was the important route Mölnlycke – Bollebygd with station at Landvetter airport. Money was set aside in the 2014 budget. With this new section, the worst part of the tracks between West Sweden's two largest cities would be replaced by a completely new railway. Travel time would be reduced properly, regional commuting would be facilitated and Gothenburg and Borås would have direct train connection to Landvetter airport. Unfortunately, that was not the case. After the turn of the government in 2014, everything changed. At first, it was three years when nothing happened. In 2017, the government then withdrew the previous decision from 2012 and the money the alliance government had set aside. Then the money was returned a few years later and called it a bet, and the start of construction was set at 2023. Now, construction starts at the earliest 2025 - 27. The Finnish Transport Agency was forced to start again from the beginning with a completely new feasibility study and new consultations. Now we are investigating a number of possible draws of the new railway, which, as I said, places a wet blanket over large parts of Härryda, Bollebygds and Borås municipalities. Municipalities do not dare to plan or even grant building permits for dwellings in the areas in question. Several of the routes under investigation pass through villages and communities, which will require the redemption of homes. Since you work with three different corridors at the same time, very many people are affected by the Swedish Transport Administration's limitations. Many are forced to go unnecessarily for years and worry about the redemption of their homes and are prevented from developing their properties. The buildings in the corridors are also in principle unmarketable. The lack of clarity about whether the Finnish Transport Agency intends to build ordinary, traditional rail or high-speed trains that require wider rail corridors also helps to block unnecessarily large land areas pending a decision. I asked the Minister last time when final notice from the government came regarding the choice of railway corridor and construction technology. Unfortunately, I did not get a clear answer. The Minister could not even promise a reply before the 2022 elections. I find this very disrespectful to the landowners and municipalities concerned. Madam President, I would like I also asked the Minister how quickly the trains will be able to run on the planned track that the government calls high-speed rail. I only got one evasive answer. I followed this up with a written question and received an answer last week. It was again a non-answer. The Minister only replied that the Finnish Transport Administration will in the future account for the speed of the system. Nevertheless, the Minister continues to argue that the Government intends to build high-speed rail lines. Then you might think that he should at least have a thought about how fast you should be able to drive on these tracks. I therefore repeat my question to the Minister in a different way: how quickly does the Minister think that one must at least be able to drive a train in order for it to be called high-speed? It can't be that hard to answer for an infrastructure minister.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-571	Madam President, I would like I really appreciate the commitment of both Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby and Jan Ericson. The answer to Jan Ericson to the last question is simple: I think the definition of high-speed trains is usually 250 kilometres per hour or more, so then we know it. Then let me just replicate by quoting a finance minister that we had during the time when the Moderates ruled this country, Anders Borg. I choose to take two quotes from Anders Borg: Roads are five times more important than railways. The second quote is: We have overinvested in railways. I think that the two quotes highlight in an excellent way the efforts of the bourgeois, moderate-led government for the Swedish rail system and the deep commitment that was then apparently there for the extension of the rail system. On the contrary, this was where the Norrbotnia Line was lifted and it was not built. Imagine how important it would have been for the entire Norrland coast with Northvolt's establishment and the announcement that we have received today about steel without coal in Boden and for that matter LKAB's investments and Hybrid. What if one had not been so eager to remove railway projects from infrastructure planning? It had had an incredible significance not only for Norrland and those who live in Luleå and Skellefteå but for the whole of Sweden's growth and the conditions to lift more goods and more passenger traffic on climate-smart transport. In the same way it was during the time when the Alliance ruled. There was no investment in infrastructure, because other things were more important. It was only in 2018 that we took Gothenburg – Borås into a national plan and gave the commission to Trafikverket to develop the planning for the entire route as it is an important part of the construction of new main roads. Let me then turn to the question of Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby. I think it's important. How do we deal with national interests? That question is difficult, because it is a conflict of interests. We have chosen, from the government's side, to commission the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Riksantikvariebetet, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration, together with Boverket, which becomes the coordinating authority, to review their respective claims on the areas of national interest. It will review and specify the criteria for which sites are considered to be of national interest, evaluate whether the current claims on the sites of national interest correspond to the criteria developed and decide whether these claims need to be changed. Overall, the review will lead to a significant reduction in both the number of claims for sites of national importance and the total area of those sites. I think it is extremely important, because I think that everyone who follows this debate understands that there is no particular interest in looking at land for a long time cannot be provided for housing or other important social planning. Therefore, it is also the task of the Finnish Transport Administration to narrow the corridors as quickly as possible in order to define routes and not create uncertainty for individuals or for municipalities and regions. This has been a challenge for many years. I belong to a government that is now taking hold of it and giving this mission and ensuring that we now create greater clarity so that we can reduce both the construction times and the planning times and the uncertainty that this entails. Sweden needs more rail, and during this time we have launched the largest railway investment in modern times. It's happening under the leadership of this government.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-578	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Tomas for explaining how national interests are being investigated. That's good. It is now the case that this particular debate is about a particular area, namely the area between Borås and Gothenburg and the railway expansion there. Once again, Tomas Eneroth is trying to put the blame and responsibility for nothing happening to anyone else, in this case the Moderates. The claim that we do not want to build new railways is wrong. If Tomas Eneroth had taken note of the Moderates' decision from the 2017 working session, he would have known that. There the Government could have read that we need to maintain what we have. It says in the Minutes: At the same time, we see that in many places it is crowded on the tracks, and therefore the railways need to be expanded with new tracks and new capacities. In this way, we can strengthen the conditions for regional commuting, long-distance travel and industry's need for reliable freight transport. Madam President, I would like In the same protocol, the Government had also been able to read: Every tax chandelier should be used where it does the most good. Economic viability and efficiency, together with future capacity needs, will guide the choice of investment in infrastructure. The Eneroth Government is right to state that we do not support the development of high-speed rail. Building high-speed rail is not socially sound. It's not using the tax crowns where they do the most good. Although there is still hope of a new railway link between Borås and Gothenburg, it is unfortunately evident that the number of people who lose faith that the Red-Green Government will deliver is constantly increasing. The Government said something else in its answer that I actually agree with, namely that there is still a broad consensus on the extension of the railway between Gothenburg and Borås among municipalities, regions and a large part of the business community. Last night, my moderate opposition council in Borås, Anette Carlsson, said: The most important thing for us is to get a railway that connects the labour market Borås – Gothenburg. We need to make it easier for commuters. I understand that the Red-Green Government has grandiose plans for high-speed rail to Europe, but at some point we have to start building, otherwise it will only be air castles. Start building now, I'd say, but you can't do that. But at least do not delay the process further! Make sure to keep Magdalena Andersson's election promise from 2014, although it is now 2021 and you can say that it is a bit late. Madam President, I would like Again, I ask the Minister for Infrastructure: Where does Minister for Infrastructure Eneroth do to comply with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson's 2014 election promise? How does Minister Eneroth intend to push forward on this issue? I expect to hear something other than just the record of ongoing investigations into national interests.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-586	Madam President, I would like Firstly, during the years of the alliance, we invested much more money than the previous government had done to heal the neglected maintenance of the then railways. Secondly, we decided to build the Gothenburg – Borås section. Nothing's happened. Thirdly, it is not we Moderates who are going to solve the government's problems with the financing of high-speed trains. In fact, it is Tomas Eneroth who has that responsibility as a minister and not us moderates. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight another issue that I touched on in my previous interpellation, and this is about station modes. If you build a railway and want many to take the train, it's pretty good with stations. The Finnish Transport Agency has now apparently been tasked with reducing the costs of railway construction and the construction of high-speed trains because the government cannot finance the cost with today's estimated price tag. One of the savings that Trafikverket is working with is to control or move station modes. Then you should know, as Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby just said, that the Västra Götaland region and the municipalities concerned have emphasised that the most important thing about a new railway between Gothenburg and Borås is regional commuting and connecting Landvetter airport so that you can take the train there from Gothenburg and Borås. The Swedish Transport Administration is now talking openly about removing the station location at Landvetter Airport and moving the station in Borås from the centre to the outskirts of the city. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure if he thinks it reasonable to build a terribly expensive railway and hardly have any stations where people can get off and on the train, that the station in the large city of Borås is located outside the city centre and that the region's newly built airport is not connected to the new railway. Is that really how the government thinks it benefits a more environmentally friendly train travel? And is that really how the government thinks you can get the economy in this? And as I said: When can we expect a final message from the government about rail Gothenburg – Borås?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-591	Madam President, I would like Thank you to both speakers for their commitment! Let me first put the question to Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby, who claims that the claims are wrong: Does the former Minister of Finance, Anders Borg, quote wrong when he says that he prefers to spend more resources on roads and thinks it is unnecessary to invest in railways? I think those quotes were right, and they still sum up quite well how little commitment the alliance government under moderate leadership had to rail investments. I think it is extremely important that we realise that. We must strengthen the capacity of the Swedish rail system and we must ensure that it is increased. When I took the millionth train about a year and a half ago, I did it to manifest that there has never been so much train on the Swedish railway but that we soon hit the capacity ceiling and therefore have to build more capacity. That is why we added Gothenburg- Borås as an important part and decided in the national plan that it should be built. That is why Trafikverket now has work to develop a basis for the implementation of Gothenburg – Borås. We also invest resources – 100 billion more. I note that there is a strong commitment, not only in the region but also among the business community and other actors, to pursue the construction between Gothenburg and Borås, but not only there. It will also continue and connect to Jönköping. What is the significance of this for the whole labour market region? That is how I think we should see investment in infrastructure. It is to ensure that labour market regions are enlarged. This will be important when building, not only in Borås but also in Norrköping, Linköping, Hässleholm or in other locations along the construction of new main roads. For those who follow the debate, it may be interesting to know that it was still under the alliance government that the project was started. But then, unfortunately, the Moderates have dropped out and say that they do not want to invest in the construction of new main tracks. If we are to meet climate requirements, we now need to make investments that allow us to shift more passenger traffic and more freight on precisely rail, on climate-smart alternatives. But not least at the beginning of the term of office, we noticed that the Moderates chose instead to propose a reduction in climate funding. In addition, they made an important priority in reducing the price of petrol. Is this how people's concerns about climate change are taken seriously? Is this the way to listen to the world's accumulated research on climate change and what efforts need to be made? We have the ambition that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We are making major efforts to ensure that Sweden is able to change its position throughout the country. We make the largest railway investment in modern times and put more resources, already in the current national plan SEK 100 billion more, than the bourgeois government did on more infrastructure. We are doing this because we need to move from words to action and ensure that it is built. It will create jobs. It will create growth and confidence in the future. I believe that this is far more important than the tax cuts that the Moderates normally choose to prioritise.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-601	Madam President, I would like Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth quoted the former Minister of Finance, Anders Borg. I quoted Moderates' 2017 working general meeting decisions. Actually, it's the last card that applies. And finance ministers, at least in our party, must also comply with the decisions of the Court of Auditors. As far as Eneroth's assertion of the government's efforts is concerned, I can tell you that the Moderates invest as much in our draft budget as the government does in its budget. Now we have heard several times how Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is trying to blame the Moderates for the fact that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson's election promise from 2014 has not been fulfilled. The Alliance government actually made decisions about the Gothenburg railway – Borås. Construction was scheduled to start in 2019. In 2017, the Red-Green Government chose to delete it. Then they moved it back and called it a bet. Madam President, I would like Last time I checked, it was still the S and MPs that formed government, not the Moderates. It will therefore be somewhat impetuous to blame a lack of ability to act on an opposition party. It was you who asked for the voter's confidence in forming a government, Tomas Eneroth. Then the voters also have the right to expect you to put forward proposals on how to finance your election promises. What proposals does the government have on how to finance your grandiose plans? There we live in uncertainty. It is also strange when it comes to the Borås railway link – Gothenburg – that nothing can happen unless the Moderates opposition party is involved. Madam President, I would like We are happy to take over power in Sweden. It would probably be the best solution, not only to finally get the construction of the railway between Borås and Gothenburg started, but also for all the other unresolved societal challenges facing Sweden. Until then, however, it is the government's responsibility to present the solutions.
i-PWiRC12MV8neK2hMx4ftrb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby! I am convinced that the honourable Member has a strong commitment to Gothenburg – Borås. It's important. For those following the debate, it may be important to know why. It is one of Sweden's busiest routes. There, a substandard train runs at far too low speed while road 40 is completely overcrowded with trucks, buses and other vehicles. It is therefore necessary to make investments. It's been known for a long time. I would like to quote Anders Borg, who at the time was responsible for politics and the investments made by the moderate-led government: Roads are five times more important than railways. We've overinvested in railways. It was that doctrine that made it not bet enough. It was the Moderates' priorities that put tax cuts ahead of investment. That is why we have for a long time found that it has been underinvested in both roads and railways. As Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby now reads aloud from the 2017 Momentum Decision of the Moderates, I think it symbolizes exactly what happens to the Moderates when they end up in opposition. Then the interest in infrastructure is aroused, but not when they are in power. It is easy to put forward proposals in opposition for more resources. But once they have the opportunity, they once again choose to give priority to what is closest to the Moderates: tax cuts. It is a question of reducing vehicle tax or petrol tax, which was the latest proposal, and of reducing climate subsidies. Sweden must meet the climate challenge. We must be a country that has the strength and the power to invest. We signalled this clearly already in 2014. In 2018, we presented a national plan with 100 billion more investment in infrastructure, the biggest railway investment ever. Let's keep it up. Gothenburg – Borås will be an important part. But I would like us to continue, to Jönköping, Linköping and Hässleholm. I want us to build the Norrbotnia Line and get the South East Link in place. That is how we ensure that we meet the climate requirements. This is how we ensure that we strengthen competitiveness and create jobs in Sweden.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-612	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me if I will review and adapt the Act so that children and young people can do sports without any regulatory problems and whether I will review and adapt the Act so that you can take extra equipment with you in order to be able to practise their parasport. The service meets an important need for a large group of people who, as a result of disability, are unable to use public transport. The responsibility for organising transport services rests with the municipalities or the regional public transport authority of the region, if the municipality has transferred responsibility to the authority. The Finnish Transport Service Act stipulates that each municipality is responsible for ensuring that good quality transport services are organised within the municipality and, if there are special reasons, between the municipality and another municipality. Thus, the Transport Services Act does not regulate in detail between which destinations a journey is to be granted or what conditions apply to the journey. Within the framework of the law, it is then the respective principal who determines what conditions apply to their own residents. I think that this principle is important because it gives a local and regional basis to the responsibility for ensuring that the service is of good quality.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-615	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! However, I had hoped for more understanding of this problem. I perceive a certain arrogance in the Government's response. I hope, of course, that this is not the case and that this debate can sort out any misunderstandings. However, such an attitude towards this law by the government and the minister responsible makes me frankly angry and disappointed. You refuse to see a problem. I was brought to the attention a few years ago, but this summer the Swedish Parasports Association intensified the work. They struggle with beaks and claws to bring about a change. But it is in vain, because the government does not see the same problem. It is quite incomprehensible to me how bureaucraticly narrow-minded this law has become after the responsibility was transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Infrastructure, over which Minister Eneroth is responsible today. The law came into being to facilitate people's everyday lives, to make it easier for wheelchair users to get between point A and point B. A distance that is simple, fast and problem-free for us is the opposite for a person who is in a wheelchair. The right to travel services is now governed by the Transport Services Act, and it is now under the Ministry of Infrastructure. Road transport, assistance and access to assistive devices are today the three most restrictive factors for a person with disabilities to be able to engage in sports. The Travel Service Act should include travel in order to be able to exercise and sport. Does the Government agree with me on this? Madam President, I would like Today, many children and young people have to rely on their parents to drive them directly from school to activity – this is because they are not allowed to take travel directly from school to activity. In other words, the law does not live up to its purpose, and that is the responsibility of the Government. A change is needed. It cannot be reasonable that it should be this bureaucratic for a child to first go home from school and lose a lot of time and energy and then get to his leisure activity. It means an extra trip instead of going straight from school. This will be absurd not least in view of the debate on emissions that is going on in parallel, although this is certainly not the primary issue in my interpellation. The Government's answer refers to the fact that the question is a municipal matter. I therefore wonder whether the Government's answer means that we will never ever see legislative changes affecting municipalities. Or how should I interpret the answer? Madam President, I would like The second part of my interpellation is about equipment, but I will mention it in my next post. Again: I am still looking for answers to my first question. Does the government see a problem with people who are entitled to travel services not being able to go directly from school to their sports activity or another activity for that matter, given how the law is formulated today? Will we see a change in the directives?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-624	Madam President, I would like I really appreciate the commitment, but I'm a little surprised by the tone. Basically, this is a municipal responsibility. It is the responsibility of municipalities, regions and regional public transport authorities to listen at this level of detail to the requirements of adaptation, timing, and equipment. For quite a long time, Parliament has considered this system to be a good one. Should I interpret this as meaning that the Swedish Democrats now think that we should return the travel service to the Social Services Act? Is that the question of the possibility of travelling by parasporters to be regulated? I don't think that would be a happy development. The Transport Services Act as a whole has worked well. In the surveys and surveys conducted by Swedish Public Transport, 92 per cent of travellers with travel services and sick trips say they are satisfied with ordering and travelling. They are also satisfied with the driver's response and that they arrive on time. There is therefore a high level of satisfaction. However, I share the view that it is incredibly important to find ways to meet the needs of both individuals and practitioners of parasports locally and regionally. But we have an order in Sweden that means that this is not regulated in detail in the Riksdag or in the government. I still have to ask if the Swedish Democrats think that the transport service should be returned to the Social Services Act. Is that where people who practice parasports, for example, should turn? The order we have today has worked well. Should it turn out that further clarifications are needed, I do not hesitate to take initiatives, but so far we have not received any clear signals that this would be necessary.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-630	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by answering the questions. It doesn't really matter to me where the law is, but just that it works. According to the signals I receive, it is clear that today's system is not working. Some form of review is needed and must be done. Let me take up the second part of my interpellation. Today you can't take your equipment with you if you're on the road. You can't take your special wheelchair with you if you need one when you're going to sports. You can only carry the one you use out in the streets and squares, and it is not adapted to sports and parasports. The special wheelchair is essential for exercising your sport. Within the parasport the wheelchair is a tool. Why can't you take it with you when you're on duty? You can compare it with going to a tennis court without a racket or to an ice track without skates. It will be pointless to play sports without your equipment. Why can't you take it with you when you're on duty? The Government again refers to the fact that the content of my interpellation is a municipal matter. But we must be able to change a law or rule that does not work as intended. That is the case today. This is not just about a single person who is not allowed to go directly from school to his activity or who is not allowed to bring his equipment with the transport service – this applies to several people. Hundreds of thousands of people in Sweden are currently in need of travel services. Since the Transport Service Act was transferred to the Minister's Department, problems have been revealed. It is therefore appropriate to do a review to see what has become worse and how to change it. Another problem is that you are entitled to a certain number of travel services per year. This means that the number of trips is not enough for more than two workouts per week. If you want to invest in a sports career in parasport, two training days per week are not enough. Can the government consider reviewing this and possibly changing the law and the number of trips per week so that it is more adapted to those who, for example, want to make an elite effort?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-636	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Angelika Bengtsson, for the commitment! I appreciate it. But I did not really get the answer if the Swedish Democrats think that the question should be returned to the Social Services Act. My view is that the Transport Service Act has worked well, as evaluations show. A great responsibility lies, as I said, with municipalities and regions to develop rules for how to apply the law and what opportunities to have. What this should look like depends partly on how politicians in the region to which Angelika Bengtsson belongs have chosen to prioritise when it comes to what opportunities should exist. It is also they who balance the costs for operators to include specific equipment. Of course, my basic attitude is that this is important. This applies not least to those groups where the transport service is the only means of transport. Generous assessments must be made within the framework of the resources put in place. The study on special passenger transport carried out at my initiative contained a thorough analysis of the possibilities offered by the current regulatory framework and the possible requirements that may need to be changed in the future in order to make its application even more flexible. I am, of course, prepared to try several different measures to improve the possibility of travel services for several, but this should be done within the framework of the costs that exist. I feel that there is strong support in the Riksdag for the order we have that means that we do not go in from the national level and detailed rules on how to apply the Transport Service Act. Municipalities and regions shall have this responsibility. It is also they who will talk about how the trips are to be carried out, how the trips can be coordinated and what equipment you can carry with you.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-641	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that the government does not intend to change current legislation. One refuses to see a daily problem that affects many people and affects their lives. Every time I meet someone connected to the Parasports Federation, they ask me for a change. I wanted this debate for them and to make their voices heard in this House. I wanted to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that here we have a problem that hampers their everyday lives. Why does the government make their lives difficult? If you want to make a change, you can. I note that the government does not want to bring about a change. I regret that, because those who suffer from this law cannot therefore have a simpler everyday life. In this case, a small change would mean great results. I hope for a change in the matter in the near future and thank you for the debate.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-644	Madam President, I would like As I said, I appreciate the commitment, but I am surprised at the tone. Angelika Bengtsson says he can say that the government does not want to simplify people's lives. But seriously – this is a law for which we in Parliament have a rather broad support. The scheme is such that local and regional authorities are responsible for its implementation in detail. If Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats want to change that principle, you are of course welcome. Then say it! Please tell me that you want to transfer this to a detailed regulation in the Social Services Act or in what other way you want it to be changed! I think it's important that we follow up on the Travel Service Act. We have an investigation that looks at ways to develop it further, and I am of course prepared to try this. It should be there for people to have that support. But we have also found it a pretty good order in Sweden that municipalities and regions, which are closest to the citizens, have a great influence on how to manage the service, to which operators you give the assignments and not least what opportunities there are for those who need the service to get the best possible support. In fact, I think that the vast majority of people think that this is a fairly reasonable assessment.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-646	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me questions about Sweden's transport infrastructure. Good transport opportunities are crucial for the whole country to grow and live. The Government decided in 2018 on a national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure for the period 2018 – 2029. It means an investment of over SEK 700 billion. The plan enables investments throughout the country and results in a record investment in road and rail maintenance of a total of SEK 289 billion. The Government's initiative enables Trafikverket to implement urgent maintenance measures throughout the country. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to take specific measures to increase safety at level crossings on the state railway. At crossings which have increased accident risk have been identified. The Finnish Transport Agency has started functional investigations to develop proposals on how these priority crossings can be made safer. The speed adjustments carried out by Trafikverket are linked and take into account the design and safety standards of the roads. They are not due to a lack of maintenance. In the national plan, the Finnish Transport Administration now allocates up to SEK 1 billion to co-finance road safety measures on the regional road network. This means that the speed can also be increased on parts of the road network. As far as new high-speed rail lines are concerned, I would like to remind Kjell Jansson that it was the bourgeois government that set up Sweden with the aim of enabling rapid implementation. Unlike the Moderates, the Government has the ambition to complete new high-speed main lines as well. In order to minimise uncertainties in the planning of the new main routes, the government would have liked a broad political discussion on the financing of the new main routes, but the Moderates have declined to participate, despite a broad commitment to an expansion among municipalities, regions and a large part of the business community. The Government has started work on developing a new national plan for the development of the transport infrastructure and intends to present an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021. Following the parliamentary decision on the financial framework, work on the so-called action plan continues. It identifies the actions to be prioritised in the national plan. Decisions on a new national plan are planned for 2022.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-652	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Eneroth for the answer – or the non-reply in part. Some answers were given to me, like you're going to pursue the high-speed track. It will be interesting to see how you will get it with all the environmental testing and other things. It is not possible to apply to expand a small jetty in the archipelago without it being no from the County Administrative Board. It will be exciting to see how to draw new tracks. It is well known that Sweden has the worst maintenance of roads and tracks throughout the Nordic region. In the past, Norway was probably the worst, but they have settled. During the winter we have had great damage to roads and tracks. For example, several kilometres of rails have calved in Häggvik after a freight train has passed. As a result, traffic has been suspended there for a long time. There are many county roads that are very poor after decades of poor maintenance. Instead of increasing maintenance, Trafikverket then chooses to reduce speed to such a low speed that people become faster. We have at home in my municipality many roads where you have lowered speed. About 30 years ago, it was 100. Now you drive 80, and the road is basically not renovated in all years. It has been asphalted at some point. That's what happened. The Finnish Transport Agency also classes down roads outside the cities in the countryside. So-called BK3 roads are classified down to BK2 due to lack or no maintenance. Which vehicles are worst hit by it? In fact, it is the forest industry and log cars that do not come to load timber. The forestry industry is a basic industry in Sweden. It is remarkable, I think, that the government is not investing more in making sure that maintenance works. Most small roads in Sweden are currently run by communities in rural areas with little government funding. Up to 2025, it is estimated that 425 miles of speed will be reduced. I've never seen any road in Stockholm County get higher speed – just lowered all the time. In Norrland you can drive 120 on the motorways – in Stockholm County at best 100, sometimes 90. The transport companies warned in Today's industry on 27 January that the road network would fail and strongly criticized the government for its severely neglected maintenance. According to their estimates, the maintenance debt will be around 42 billion by 2030. Coating maintenance would need to increase by 2 billion annually from present-day 2.9 to 5.4 in order to maintain existing standards. Madam President, I would like There is nothing to argue against increased resources for road maintenance, not even environmental reasons. Nevertheless, environmental reasons are often given for not increasing resources. At the beginning of the year there was a serious accident, a collision between a snowmobile and a train, up in Timrå in Sundsvall. As a result, two younger women died. The reason is under investigation, but it should not be any surprise to the Finnish Transport Administration that this is happening and will happen. It can be noted that the Finnish Transport Administration has for a long time failed to have safe transitions. The light signal was a lamp, Madam President. Why hasn't the Swedish Transport Administration installed real light signals that glow red, yellow and green as in other passages?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-662	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the very important interpellation about the major shortcomings in Sweden's infrastructure that my colleague Kjell Jansson has written. I do not know why this government is so busy talking about new investments in infrastructure when it is not even able to maintain what it has. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, the Swedish Parliament's car network held a seminar where the target director of the Swedish Transport Administration spoke about reality – the reality that is so far from the Minister's statements here in the Chamber in various interpellation debates. He talks about bets and one and the other, and he will cut ties all over Sweden. However, anyone who owns a property, Madam President, anyone who owns a car knows that you maintain what you have if you want to preserve value. Madam President is from the same constituency as me, Gävleborg. She knows that Gävleborg has Sweden's worst state roads. This is not because there is some evil at the Finnish Transport Administration, but because this government is simply removing infrastructure. The seminar that we held in the Swedish Parliament's car network showed that during the current planning period there are very large deficiencies in resource supplements. So resources are not given for the need to maintain as we do. As bad is likely for the next planning period. Madam President, I would like What are the consequences? What are the consequences for those living in Gävleborg? What are the consequences for the forest industry? What are the consequences for those living outside Ockelbo? Well, it's that it takes almost a tank to get through in the spring. It's a health and safety issue. Professional drivers simply cannot have a reasonable working environment when they cannot get through. Another consequence is that the Swedish Transport Administration, as Kjell Jansson said, responds to the lack of maintenance by reducing speed. There's a lot of hard work on the commute in my home country. The councillors are collapsing. Many of them have the same party color as Tomas Eneroth. They are right to do so because it makes it difficult for people to commute and work. I do not understand why the Minister for Infrastructure does not put his fist in the table before the Minister for Finance and say: It cannot be reasonable to raise the register and go free when people have to have tanks to go on the roads in Gävleborg. That is a completely unreasonable priority. Unfortunately, there is very little to suggest that this government, made up of two parties, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, will succeed in agreeing to maintain – not expand and not improve, but maintain – the existing road network we have. Had the Minister ever listened to the traffic reports in P4 Gävleborg, he would have been able to hear how a number of times every day there is a stop on the E4. It is simply clogged because of the recurring traffic accidents that occur there. Since it's a file and cable rack, it's stopped, abruptly. In previous interpellation debates, I have asked: What is the socio-economic cost of the E4 being suspended for 18 hours through Gävleborg? Unfortunately, there are no statistics on it, and the Minister does not want to give statistics on it.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-675	Madam President, I would like I have entered this debate to talk about the lack of road maintenance. I am in the Government's response to Kjell Jansson a couple of sentences that I find a little interesting. It was clear that good transport opportunities are crucial for the whole country to grow and live. In another place, he said, the Government's efforts enable the Finnish Transport Administration to implement urgent maintenance measures throughout the country. ..................................................... The speaker before me, Lars Beckman, is from Gävleborg. Although I live in Tibro, I also belong to that constituency. With the contacts I have with professional traffic up there, I can see that the roads are a disaster. This even applies to those who are going to take care of winter road maintenance. It is almost impossible, because the road itself is so bad that it is difficult to maintain good standards in the winter before. As a result, traffic has been stopped for longer than is necessary. Road stops have consequences for our industry. Tomas Eneroth and I have had that debate before. The government's answer has been: You can stay. Of course you can say that as a measure. Nevertheless, the industry must be able to continue. If you go out in the country on the roads you can see how bad the road standard is. The answer is that you keep lowering your speed. The road cracks along the track, pushing out the asphalt into the ditch edge. It further degrades the road body itself. That's it. Those who are driving in the important forest industry are suffering a great deal of vehicle damage. Sometimes the road even gives way so that the whole ride is put to rest alongside all the consequences it has. This applies, in particular, to the risk of injury to the driver. If you look at the report that has come, you can see that maintenance needs will increase in the future if you do not add more money. The report states: To minimise maintenance debt by 2030 – nine years ahead – a road maintenance budget of 7.4 billion per year is needed, which is more than a doubling of the current maintenance budget. Although the Government says that it is making record investments in road maintenance, the report notes that it is not enough to keep a reasonable standard. The only thing that will happen is that the maintenance debt is increasing. Finally, you get to the end of the road. What do you do when you can't drive anymore? How are you going to manage to live and live in forest areas, and how are you going to cope with the important industry that is part of our export industry if it can no longer carry out its transport? What we are talking about is a lifeblood in Sweden. It is about getting the material that our industry produces in the world. We export a lot. If the bloodstream stops, we've got huge problems. It is a capital destruction of gigantic dimensions that we see. If you do not add more money, it will be an extremely difficult nut to crack in the future. The debt's increasing.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-685	Madam President, I would like The advantage of having several similar interpellation debates is that if you do not get an answer to the question in the first debate, you can repeat it in the others. I will continue to talk a little about trains, high-speed trains and infrastructure with Minister Tomas here. I did not get a real answer to my question about how the government intends to finance its investment in high-speed rail. I understand, Madam President, that it would like us Moderates to present a solution that is possible and feasible. But it is still the Social Democrats and the Green Party that form the government and not the Moderates. I believe that the voters and the people out there expect the government, when it says what it wants to do, to tell us how it intends to do so. I can agree with the previous speakers here, and also with Minister Eneroth, who points out that today's main courses are in a bad state. I myself didn't dare to take the chance to take the train up to Stockholm today – I wasn't really sure when my interpellation debate would begin – for fear that the railway would not work and that the trains would be delayed. I got an extra night in Stockholm. We need to upgrade, and we need to build new railway infrastructure. As far as the red-green government's ambitions are concerned, one could say if one is kind, to build high-speed railways, we are still in a cloud of funding. The Government of Eneroth has told us several times during today's debates that this government spends more than anyone else on infrastructure, SEK 100 billion. The Swedish Transport Administration's estimate of what the cost of high-speed rail would be is from 2015. Now there may have been new numbers. In 2015, the Swedish Transport Administration estimated that a high-speed infrastructure would cost SEK 190 – 320 billion. The 100 billion that the government says it wants to invest is not enough. This was also in 2015– if it is estimated at 2019's monetary value, it is between 216 and 364 billion. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce has other figures. They say that a high-speed railway investment in Sweden would be around SEK 400 billion. I understand that this government is eager to be ambitious and willing to bet. But it is not only possible to want to, but it must also be possible to finance the whole thing. Then it is not enough to blame itself and say that the Moderates do not want to talk to the government and that the Moderates do not want to tell the government how to fulfil their promises. Madam President, I would like I still expect the answer I did not get in my previous debate, where I asked how the government intends to finance the investment on rail in Sweden. How do you plan to pay and finance the investments? Are you going to come up with the proposals yourself, or are you going to wait for someone else to solve the problems for you? In that case, I think the voters will resolve that issue for you next year.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-693	Madam President, I would like It is interesting how pressured the Moderates are apparently on infrastructure issues and when one realizes the difficulties one had during one's own reign in making sufficient efforts for road maintenance and railway maintenance. Anders Borg's quote, which I mentioned in the previous interpellation debate, is well known. That is also why we are suffering from underinvestment both in the Swedish rail system and in the road network. On the issue of funding, I want to be clear. The government has announced its ambition to leave an infrastructure bill in April of this year, which tells us what framework there is. It is the Riksdag that supports this. There, the Moderates, as well as the Swedish Democrats and others, have a direct influence on the framework to be set for future infrastructure planning. The Finnish Transport Agency will, based on this framework, be tasked with preparing the basis for a national plan that the Government then decides on 2022. That is the order we have; we have had it in the past, even under bourgeois governments. The difference is that when we had bourgeois governments it was much less money, because then they chose to prioritise tax cuts instead of investments in roads and railways. The investment is now SEK 164 billion on the road. There has never been so much resources for road maintenance, and that was in the 2018 plan. Added to this are investments in BK4, which, as Thomas Morell rightly pointed out, is incredibly important for not least the forest industry to ensure that heavy transport, which can now become trucks up to 74 tonnes, can make its way as an important part of Swedish export industry. This has been an important part of the course of this and previous government. We have strengthened the profile of industrial policy and increased the possibilities for both heavier and longer trucks in order to achieve more efficient transport. This has been done together with the freight transport strategy, where we sit together with the industry and transport companies and develop intermodality, as it is called, in the Swedish transport system – i.e. the interaction between shipping, rail and road transport – and thus increase transport efficiency. That is why a great many initiatives are now being taken to improve the capacity of freight transport. This is not least thanks to the investments we make, but more will be needed – be so safe – both in terms of rail and maritime transport as well as in terms of roads. This is what the Swedish Transport Administration points to in its focus paper, which has come to the government and which we have ordered. This is also the basis on which the Swedish Transport Administration will soon report on new main roads. This is how it should work – we get the basis, and we also have a dialogue with regions and with industry to then be able to make an assessment of how the infrastructure and not least new main roads can be financed in the future. What is interesting when you hear Lars Beckman is that he does not think that any investments are needed for the railway. It should be remembered that Gävle – Kringlan in Lars Beckman's constituency is one of the most important investments made – it is about SEK 6 billion. Should it be removed? Would you like to remove double tracks on the Ostcoast Line? Is this where the Moderates plan their future savings to afford road investments? Are you going to do what you're going to do with the Norrbotnia Line? You lifted an important infrastructure item that would have been so incredibly right to have in place today to afford tax cuts or other things. It is well appropriate for Lars Beckman to talk about whether he is behind the important railway initiatives, not least in Gävleborg County, that this government has proposed and now has in national plans. Let me conclude by saying what is known: if we propose a reduction in petrol tax, a reduction in air tax and a reduction in climate subsidies and say no to more investments on rail, it will not be easier for Sweden to achieve the climate targets.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-704	Madam President, I would like You can always discuss taxes – we can do that. But introducing plastic bag tax and other things is pure symbolism that MP pushes forward while you're in the trailer boat. Instead, you should steer the government and allow the Green Party to have less influence. I note that the government does not give sufficient priority to maintaining our road network and the main rail system. I think we all agree on this; I think that even the Government agrees with that. An effort to upgrade the main rail to full capacity by X 2000 would not make it necessary to even consider high-speed trains in terms of travel time, for the difference in travel time would be marginal. Instead, the government, driven by the Green Party, chooses to plan for new high-speed trains for astronomical money. There's a rumor in 500 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office has hit back and says that it is a mistake, but yet the government continues to plan for this. If the government used reason, this jippo would be stopped immediately. The money spent on high-speed trains is basically enough for everything else. They're enough to rearrange the main line. They are sufficient for any new investment in the national plan that the Government has just presented. I know it's coming. A referral is out in Stockholm County as well, and there I am in a corner and overseeing. Madam President, I would like In 2008, I signed the Cederschiöld package. As Municipal Commissioner – or Chairman of the Municipal Board – for Norrtälje, I signed a lot of objects there. Among other things, we would get a road 77 between the county border towards Uppsala and Norrtäljes E18 at Trafikplats Rösa. This was 2008, but nothing has yet happened. You plan, and you change the stretch here and there, and time and time again. Of course, the LRF has opinions because they lose agricultural land. That is if roads are to be built; it is to land. You change the attraction with surgical precision to keep stalling the project. This is done despite the fact that much of the goods from Kapellskär to the entire Mälardalen go on this road, i.e. road 77. Every year an average person gets to kill himself on this road, and the rear-view mirrors of the trucks hit each other because the road is so narrow. Nevertheless, the Finnish Transport Administration is delaying this investigation. That's remarkable. It was part of the Cederschiölds package, and it is the only object left to be implemented since 2008 – everything else has been built. Madam President, I would like Road investment in new routes is another problem. The desire to build roads in the Stockholm region seems to be zero. Is it the Green Party that is slowing down, or is the government's conviction that Stockholm does not need to have more roads? For example, a new port has been built in Norvik, in which the state has been involved. The County Administrative Board has been involved in the permit process and approved everything. Yet today the estate is first driven 50 km into the Southern Link, then around the Southern Link and then out on the E4 south. It will be ten miles detour instead of having Södertörnleden, or Cross-connection Södertörn as it is called. I really hope it's part of the national plan or it's a back job.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-713	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct, as the Minister says, that the government has set aside 164 billion for the road today. The problem is that the need is 197 billion to preserve what we have. So it is a shortage of 23 billion. Is there, then, any evil Moderate who stands and says this here in Parliament's pulpit? No, these are direct figures that we received from the Swedish Transport Administration's target director at the seminar for the Swedish Parliament's car network. The deficiencies in the railways are also very large. That is why, Madam President, the motorists in Gävleborg are reduced in speed. That is why, as another speaker said here, professional drivers warn against the poor working environment when it comes to road safety. That's why the money isn't enough to keep the E4 safe. These are serious and serious shortcomings. Then I might think that before the Minister makes lists to go and cut bands elsewhere, of course, you should maintain what you have. Sweden is not an old Eastern country with a bad economy. But perhaps it is the case, Madam President, that this government thinks that a family week for 30 billion, to raise subsidies and to consider introducing free years is more important. The freedom now planned could cost 10 billion a year. If you put together the family week, 30 billion, with a free year, 10 billion, then we are up to 40 000 million that we could have improved the road network and railway in Sweden with. This would mean that commuters in this country would actually have an opportunity to get to and from work, because infrastructure investments are, of course, linked to the work line. Madam President, I would like When will the government give priority to road maintenance?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-717	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I don't know if it's a privilege to be a little older. I've been there for a few years now. When I was growing up, my dad was an excavator. I was standing in the cabin next to him when he was building roads, which were basically what he was doing. During this period roads were built around the country. Today we cannot afford to entertain them, and that is a little strange. Since the fine network of roads is so important for our industry and for the opportunity to live and live around the country, it is remarkable that not enough funds are set aside to make it work. If it is not possible to live and live and manage the vital transports, it will of course be to the detriment of the entire country's economy, because we are talking about a basic industry, mainly if it is in the hinterland of Norrland, as forest transport is. They just have to work. Just as Lars Beckman said here before, it has been switched off on the E4 on several occasions this winter. I don't know how many times, but I follow it pretty well. But it is not only on the E4 that it has been stopped, but it has been the same on the E6, the E22, the E20 that goes through Skaraborg, the highway 26 and the E45 up the inland. These stops cost society huge amounts, and if accidents happen at the same time, the cost is even greater, so it is counterproductive not to spend money to ensure a reasonable standard on our roads. I look forward to increased investments.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-722	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard several speakers here during the debate pointing out the lack of maintenance on both road and rail, and I can only agree. Now I intend to continue to stick to the railways instead of to the road, Madam President. My colleague Thomas Morell said he's been around for a while. I haven't been around this long. But when I met my current husband, who is from Borås, my old grandfather took out a dictionary and read about Borås as a railway hub and textile center. That's it. Now not many trains go either to or from Borås, unfortunately. But we have great hopes that at some point there will be an effective, climate-smart and fast way between the two largest cities in West Sweden. There have also been discussions on freight traffic here today. And I have a little wonder here about how Minister Eneroth sees mixing freight and passenger transport on his planned high-speed railway. I don't think that would be very effective, but I'm sure he's been thinking about it too. Politics is a will, but politics is also a priority. The colleague also asked when the Minister intended to give priority to road maintenance, but I do not ask about that. My question to Tomas Eneroth is: If the government has to prioritise, does the government give priority to upgrading existing infrastructure and building new ones where necessary, or does the Red-Green Government prioritise technology over people's needs for a well-functioning, modern and efficient infrastructure?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-727	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the interpellants! I note that it is a bit sprawling in the moderate parliamentary group. On the one hand, it's rail, on the other hand, it's roads. I notice a greater consensus when I meet moderate regional councillors and municipal councillors, whether in Jönköping, Gothenburg, Malmö, Linköping or elsewhere, about the need to make railway initiatives. When Kjell Jansson says that it is enough to upgrade the current railway system, all the experts say that it does not, because we hit the capacity ceiling. When I was on the millionth train, it was precisely to manifest this. Although there are more trains than ever in the Swedish rail system, it is not enough because more people want to travel by train. It was a train boom we experienced before the corona certainly, but it will probably come back. That's because a lot more people want to travel climate smart. More people want to commute to work and not drive. You want to travel climate smart. The same is true of freight transport. More companies want to send goods by rail. That is why we need to increase capacity. I think a good example of this is when we built Västerdalsbanan in Malungsfors and electrified railway. At that time, the number of lorries decreased by 7,500 a year. Instead of tearing down the road where the residents needed to drive, we got over the forest industry's transport by rail, so that they could be transported climate smartly with electricity. That's what this trip is about, but that's what the Moderates don't really understand. I can reassure Kjell Jansson that Tvärnändning Södertörn is already on a national plane. It was included there already in 2018. It is an important investment in infrastructure in southern Stockholm to reach Norvik, if nothing else. I also note that Lars Beckman owes the answer if the Ostcoast Line is to be removed. I perceived it as a very important initiative for the entire region when the government in the national plan chose to lift the billion-dollar investment on double tracks on the Ostkustbanan. Now the moderate Member of Parliament is saying that there are other things that need to be prioritised instead. It may be appropriate to provide clarification. Otherwise it may be the case, as we heard and as I quoted Anders Borg, that the Moderates once it kniper chooses to prioritise other things than railway initiatives. Sweden is currently facing significant challenges. We are over 10 million people who live in Sweden. We need to properly upgrade the transport system. After years of underinvestment, we are tackling it with record investments in road maintenance, with a 47 percent increase in rail maintenance, but also with new investments, for that is needed. We need to increase capacity. Now, when you hear moderate Members of Parliament say that we should not invest in new investments, does that mean that you then say no to Ostkustbanan, Norrbotniabanan, Sydostlinken or other important new initiatives, not to mention new main tracks? It is efforts that so many see as absolutely necessary to strengthen transport capacity but also to achieve climate objectives. I find it interesting to hear how the Moderates choose to prioritise reduced petrol tax, airline tax or other things instead of important investments in Swedish infrastructure. I notice, when we have meetings with regions and businesses around the country, that you see it in a completely different way from what the Moderates do. They want more investment in rail. They want improved standards on our roads and electrify the road network to meet climate targets but also to equip Sweden so that we can expand the labour market regions. It creates hope, it creates jobs, and it also creates faith in the future.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-736	Madam President and Minister Eneroth. Aviation tax and petrol tax are really symbolic policies. If you're concerned about the environment, it's the coal that's to be attacked. China is building a new coal power plant this week. When we cut down on the cars that account for about 5 per cent of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions, it is symbolic documents. Carism is needed to keep the whole country going. We must agree that there are no signs everywhere in Sweden. As far as the national plan is concerned, we are neither against an off-shore link nor against a southerly link. We're against the high-speed train and nothing else. It's the high-speed rail we want to stop, no other investments, if I wasn't clear. Electrifying roads is good, but where are we going to take the power now that you've closed Ringhals? Should we have wind power for that? And when there's no wind, electric buses and cars can't drive on those roads. The national plan is extremely important for the Stockholm region, not least for Arlanda because you are planning to close Bromma. We need to develop a fourth runway at Arlanda and strengthen the traffic site around Arlanda, which in parts is a bottleneck. What about Swedavia's investigation? Why is it classified? Is there too many truths in it that go against the policy of the Green Party? Why doesn't it come up into the light? I hope it will come up for debate and as a basis. When adopting a new national plan, it is important to have all the evidence available. Thank you for the debate. It's always nice to debate.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-742	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's always nice to debate. There are no doubt differences of opinion, and this should be the case in the Swedish Parliament. We're meeting here to break our differences. I still want to take the ball on the climate issue and electrification. What we do in Sweden is electrify not least road transport, but there are also legitimate development activities of electric aircraft. We are introducing biofuels for vehicles on the road, but also to a greater extent for aviation and shipping. In addition, we are increasing transport efficiency. These are the three elements of the government's strategy to change the transport system. Why is this being done? Yes, in order for us to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the climate targets. The 2030 target is to reduce emissions by 70%. We are well on our way in Sweden but we need to continue to work with both instruments and efforts, not least electrifying the road transport sector, in order to achieve the goals. By 2045 we will have net zero. This calls for substantial investment. Then you can't hold on to the old. Where are the Moderates whom I have met in my day as politically active and who long for the future, who trust new technologies, who hope and want and do not cling to old technology? I lead the Electrification Commission's work and notice how the Swedish automotive industry and the aerospace industry feel about the future of developing new models with zero emissions while seeing new export opportunities. This creates hope, jobs and confidence in the future. I regret that the Moderates do not always see this. I think it would be important and good for Sweden if we could all see the opportunities for both being brave in the climate transition and realizing that it creates hope, jobs and faith in the future. You're welcome into the game!
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-748	Madam President, I would like I was alerted to the fact that there is an error in the answer. Let me therefore assure my old colleague, Johan Hultberg, that I will say the right name. I'm terribly sorry. Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me several questions about a faster train connection between Gothenburg and Oslo. Cross-border transport infrastructure has a major impact on both growth and accessibility in our respective countries. It is important that cross-border infrastructure between our countries makes it attractive to live and work across borders and makes it possible to travel and transport goods between our countries in a more sustainable way. The Swedish Government and the Norwegian Government have signed two agreements in connection with the new Svinesund connection. In accordance with these agreements, fees shall no longer be charged when the loans taken out to cover investment costs are more reimbursed. The governments of Sweden and Norway agree to comply with these agreements. The Government's decision on the current national plan included a commission to Trafikverket to continue to investigate the straw Gothenburg – Oslo. The aim is that the string is so well-examined that it can be considered in the next planning round and plan revision. The government has begun work on developing a new national plan. The intention is to present an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag in spring 2021. Following the parliamentary decision on the financial framework, work on the so-called action plan continues. It identifies the actions to be prioritised in the national plan. Decisions on a new national plan are planned for 2022.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-754	Madam President, I would like As I highlight in my interpellation, there is a common ambition among the Nordic countries that the Nordic region will be the world's most integrated region in 2030. Unfortunately, the ongoing coronapandemine has also attacked Nordic cooperation. People and companies in the border regions have serious concerns, and now border commuters who live in Sweden but work in Norway are not paid because they are prevented from crossing the border and getting to their jobs. I am deeply concerned about how this will affect Nordic cooperation and the common ambition to create the world's most integrated region. My answer is that we need to make new, stronger ties and that we need to make efforts to heal the wounds that are now, unfortunately, being torn up. I believe that infrastructure is important here. We have seen how the construction of the Svinesund Bridge and the extension of the E6 in northern Bohuslän have meant a great deal to the border regions on both sides of the fjord that separate Sweden and Norway. The same applies further south, in Öresund. The Öresund Bridge has connected Malmö and Copenhagen and created a strong region with a common labour market, which has led to better competitiveness on both sides of the Strait. Now we are seeing a substantial decline in Nordic cooperation, and I am deeply concerned, as I said. I am also very concerned about the disregard that the government has shown to the border region. The unemployment rate in my neighboring municipality Strömstad has increased by 100 percent, and border commuters, as I said, are not paid. I will not burden the Minister for Infrastructure with these questions, but I think that the casualty may go again in the answer to my interpellation. As I said, it was not even the right name from the beginning, and most of the text is cut and glued from the answer to the Member whose name was originally in the answer, Patrik Jönsson – an answer to a written question about the Stockholm – Oslo section, not the Gothenburg– Oslo section. Perhaps this is a little significant because the government is not showing sufficient commitment to this important issue. Madam President, I would like I hope I'm wrong. I hope that the department and the minister responsible will feel a great deal of commitment to the cross-border infrastructure and to the need to build a double-track railway between Gothenburg and Oslo in order to achieve a cohesive infrastructure in the corridor from Oslo all the way south to Hamburg. That is my pious hope, and I hope that the Minister can show that commitment here in the debate and then, of course, in concrete action. Why is this investment so important? It is about Norway being our most important trading partner after Germany. It is about the fact that we already have a comprehensive border commute of 60 000 commuters today. It is about the fact that today, between Gothenburg and Oslo, we almost only transport goods as well as people with rubber wheels on the road. An investment in double-track rail is needed here to move goods from the E6, which will otherwise be corked again in the long term, to rail and to create opportunities for the increased integration that I hope the Nordic governments will still want to see. I am happy to repeat the questions I asked in my interpellation. Is the Minister prepared to take the initiative to make this development a reality? I have to stay there and return to my next post.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-765	Madam President, I would like As my colleague has just described, the relationship between the Nordic countries has been better. It needs to get better. The Nordic labour market has served us well. When I grew up my peers went to Trollhättan and worked at Saab, because it was a bad labour market in Norway. Right now, relations between Norway and Sweden are not very good. Those of you who hear my accent understand that it is not very fun to experience this. It is not funny not to be allowed into your own former homeland. But that's not what we were going to talk about today. Freight traffic between Gothenburg and Oslo is huge. Gothenburg is Norway's largest and most important port. Every day 1 500 trucks cross the bridge over Svinesund. They don't because there isn't a railway, because there is--I've been on it many times--but because it's not up to the mark. We need a new railway between Gothenburg and Oslo because of what my colleague Johan Hultberg mentioned about work commuting and that Norway is our most important trading partner, but also – not least – for the environment. We have heard the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth several times during this evening's various debates highlight the government's environmental and climate initiatives. A very important environmental and climate effort, Madam President, would be to extend the railway between Gothenburg and Oslo so that we can move goods from road to rail. That's 1,500 trucks. I have passed the queue to customs in Norway – it is several kilometres long on Sunday evenings. It's not sustainable. This railway section is crucial for relations between Norway and Sweden in the future. As Johan Hultberg said earlier, Madam President, the Oslo – Gothenburg railway line is incredibly important, not only for the environment and the climate, but also to show that there is actually value in cooperation between Norway and Sweden. Then, Madam President, I understand that this is not a decision that Tomas Eneroth, the Swedish Minister for Infrastructure, can make on his own. We must have good cooperation with Norway here too. I myself sit on the Nordic Council, and we have requested a Nordic Council of Ministers for Infrastructure for two terms of office – our Swedish terms of office. We have not succeeded, and unfortunately we are now receiving signals that one of the two countries opposed to a Nordic Council of Infrastructure Ministers is Sweden. This saddens me, Madam President. I would very much like to see us have a Nordic Council of Ministers for Infrastructure, because it is more than a Nordic symbolic issue. These are important infrastructure efforts to tie our countries together, to promote work commuting, trade and tourism, and to ensure that our borders are once again opened up when the corona lets us go. The Nordic region is and will be the world's most integrated region, and where, Madam President, Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth plays a major role.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-771	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby and especially Johan Hultberg, for the commitment! I really do share it. I have always been anxious for us to develop even better border traffic between the Nordic countries. Experience during the pandemic shows the need for this, when we have guards along the border or, as is the latest, when we have a discussion about the fact that those who commute work do not receive their salary. That is not acceptable. This is worrying for two countries which have so much in common and which have a common labour market and a common history. I can assure not least Johan Hultberg that I have had a well-functioning collaboration with my Norwegian counterpart Knut Arild Hareide during this time. We have regular discussions between Sweden and Norway, both on infrastructure investments and on maintaining well-functioning freight flows. Although there have been restrictions on passenger transport for reasons of infection protection, which I believe everyone understands, it has been important to maintain well-functioning freight links. New freight connections have even been opened for shipping between Sweden and Norway during this time. In the same way, cooperation between the Nordic countries has worked. We are export-dependent countries. The port of Gothenburg is Norway's and the Nordic region's most important port, so of course it is very urgent. Therefore, it was important to commission Trafikverket already in 2018 to look at the deficiency list and do an in-depth study on Gothenburg – Oslo. Similarly, a mandate has been given for Stockholm – Oslo, on which there was also a discussion in this House. It is this type of basis that is now the basis for future revision of the national plan. It will, of course, be crucial what framework the Riksdag decides on and how much resources are available. The action plan will then begin and we will see what priority there is. There is no doubt that we must signal the continuation of well-functioning border traffic. Now it is up to us to talk about Oslo connections, but I would like to remind you that not long ago I opened the bridge over Great Hell. For those who don't know where it is, it's about Storlien. When the middle track, which we have electrified on the Swedish side, glides through Jämtland and Härjedalen and comes to the Norwegian border is the last stretch of the bridge over the Great Hell. There is the idea that Norway will electrify its part of the route over to Trondheim, so that we get a cross-connection, which is incredibly important. Now Norway is somewhat delayed, but I hope and believe that we are told that this electrification will continue. If we go a little further north we see that we have Lofotenbanan and Malmbanan and the importance of fast transport there between Sweden and Norway. Whether it is magnetites and iron ore or Norwegian salmon to be transported, we have common major transport needs. My ambition and that of the government is that we should continue to work very well and closely with Norway, not least with regard to infrastructure issues, because this is important, not least in those areas where we see a common labour market. The answer to Johan Hultberg in particular is that Trafikverket has a planning work in progress. This is the basis for the discussion ahead of the next action plan. I note that regional representatives in Västra Götaland have already stressed to me the importance of the initiative, not least Gothenburg– Oslo.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-779	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the reassuring message that there is a commitment both to the Minister and to the Ministry for this issue. It's extremely important. At the same time, I would like the Minister to do something more concrete in order for something to happen on this issue. I understand that when I and the Minister last had a debate on this issue one or two years ago, the Minister also raised the infrastructure effort over Great Hell. Perhaps it is significant that the Minister would rather talk about other initiatives than how we can move forward with this effort. This is, of course, the one I want to discuss – how we can take concrete steps to get closer to the realisation of the ambition that we obviously share, namely that there should be double-track rail between Gothenburg and Oslo to enable further integration of the labour market and, not least, what my colleague Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby pushed for, namely the transfer of goods from rubber wheels to steel wheels, from road to rail. There are 1 million trucks that pass the Svinesund Bridge every year. There has been a 40% increase in freight transport in the 2020s. There's not enough goods to go on rubber wheels. In addition, 60 to 70 percent of the trucks south from Oslo go down to Gothenburg empty. This is not sustainable from a climate point of view. What is positive about this stretch and the opportunity to do something about it is that it is not just me or Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby who think it is important, but the whole of Europe thinks it is important. It points out that this route is an important part of the European corridor from Hamburg up to Oslo and that this is something that affects the competitiveness and development of the whole of the European Union. Madam President, I would like Here Sweden has exceptionally good conditions for co-financing. We do not need to finance everything with Swedish funds, but up to 50% is actually possible to be financed through EU funds. But it is clear that we need to move forward in cooperation. I am therefore pleased that the Minister says that there is good cooperation between the Swedish Minister for Infrastructure and his Norwegian colleague Mr Knut Arild Hareide. I understand that Ministers have had a meeting at the end of January and that Mr Hareide had then pointed out that he would like to see an analysis of how other alternative financing solutions for cross-border infrastructure could be found. That's exactly what I want to see, too. I believe that it is possible to finance this extension with rail charges combined with substantial co-financing of EU funds. I would like the Minister to look at these possibilities carefully and take the initiative to continue digging into them. We need to review the regulatory framework for cross-border charging schemes in order to co-finance expansion. We need to look at different models to calculate the socio-economic benefits of cross-border infrastructure investments. There is not enough evidence there today. We have different models for how we calculate the social benefits and socio-economic benefits in Sweden or Norway. Here we need a handshake between Sweden and Norway where we do a joint bilateral analysis to look at what this investment would mean for Sweden and Norway. Madam President, I would like These are some concrete calls to the Minister, whom I hope he can comment on and that he takes these balls that I am now playing.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-787	Madam President, I would like It is quite refreshing to stand in the speaker's seat and feel that one is so in agreement between government and opposition when it comes to a railway venture. A number of years ago we arranged a seminar here in the Swedish Parliament on this particular railway route. We were then visited by, among others, Eastfolds fylkesordförare, who represented the Arbeider Party's Minister for Infrastructure. She put it this way: I would like us to stop thinking about borders and instead think regions when it comes to Gothenburg and Oslo and that we are a labour market region. She said that as soon as you start thinking boundaries, all planning stops. Madam President, I would like I asked Norway's Prime Minister Solberg Erna a number of years ago about the Oslo – Gothenburg railway. She said something like this: We prioritise Intercity trains, which means Oslo – Halden. I understand that it is not easy to tie two countries together in terms of infrastructure. But, Madam President, if we do not invest in infrastructure, we will never be able to achieve good cooperation. When I asked the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation a while ago about how they looked at infrastructure, they said: Right now it is more important than ever that we build our countries together. We have to show that we see that we are a region. We in the Nordic region will be the world's most integrated region. On the basis of the positive signals I received from all the co-operation ministers, I think that Minister Tomas Eneroth should forge while the iron is warm. Take your chance!
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-794	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment. I think that is quite right. If it is at some point that it is important to mark between our countries, from both the Swedish and Norwegian sides, it is now about the importance of strengthening border transport. Given the experience we have with regard to the pandemic, which I think has been sad in large parts, it is even more important for me as Minister of Infrastructure to also deepen cooperation and look at opportunities for cross-border transport. We depend on each other. I also think it is absolutely right to stop thinking about borders and instead think about regions. The best example of this is in the Skåne region – the Öresund region. We see how Katrin Stjernfeldt Jammeh and others in Malmö lead the cooperation with Copenhagen and broaden the entire labour market region, which has 4 1⁄2 million people, and integration there has worked very well. We can see that the infrastructure with the Öresund Bridge was a crucial investment. And we, together with Denmark, have now examined the conditions for a connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör. It is important in the same way as the new Svinesund Bridge is important in terms of the capacity increase it entails. It is also necessary to develop and explore all the funding possibilities available, not least with CEF funds and European funds. Of course we are looking at this too. On the other hand, we should be careful with some other funding proposals that we have heard about in the debate. I do not want us to end up in a model like Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm or other with excesses where it is thought that things pay off because they are placed on a market, but where it is ultimately very expensive. We shall have order and order in relation to the financial responsibility for infrastructure planning, and we shall be able to do so properly in Sweden. But basically this is about how we choose to prioritise resources in the future. In this debate, there are two moderate debaters who want to see more cross-border transport, not least by rail. I appreciate that. But so far it has been that when the Moderates as a party have had to decide, it has not been investments on the railways. On the contrary, they have lifted investments on rail. Norrbotniabanan is the best example of this. Had they not done so, it would have been an incredible difference for northern Sweden and for the whole of Sweden, not least now with the investments of SEK 1 000 billion made in northern Sweden. I think it is important that there is also a discussion in all parties about the importance of now investing more in climate-smart transport routes and increasing the capacity of the Swedish rail system for goods – not least important – because we are an export-dependent industrial country, but also for passenger transport and realise that it also means less wear and tear on the roads. Earlier today we discussed the Gothenburg railway – Borås. I think a very good argument for this investment is to reduce wear and tear on road 40, which is a road that is heavily burdened right now. There's a need to rearma the railroad there. This is the Government's ambition. We already showed this in the previous national plan. And in the basis that we are now receiving for the work on infrastructure planning, requests also come from all over the country. There we signal that we must continue to make the right choices, not least in order to cope with climate change. I appreciate, as I said, the commitment, and I consider it important and urgent to have an in-depth discussion and relationship, not least with the Norwegian Government. And we have a good dialogue, whether we are talking about the Gothenburg– Oslo or Stockholm– Oslo relations or whether we are talking about other cross-border connections. At a time like this, it may be more important than ever to give these signals.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-804	Madam President, I would like It is always exciting to listen to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Few people so quickly throw themselves between different images. In the last debate, he closed the criticism of us Moderates by saying that we are not forward-looking. Now he throws himself back and reviews what has been instead of just talking about how we are going to move forward and how we are going to build the infrastructure that we both obviously want to see. I want this future perspective, and I am happy to take this ball because I am convinced that we will achieve this vision of the Nordic region being the most integrated region in the world. Then it will be necessary for us politicians to invest a great deal of time, energy and commitment in order to rebuild the relationships that have now unfortunately got a thorn. In fact, however, we will also have to invest money in better infrastructure in order to link our countries closer together. We have also seen how successful it has been when we have done just that. Both the Öresund Bridge and soon the Svinesund Bridge are paid, and they were completed not very many years ago. It shows how fast payment times such cross-border infrastructures can be due to the fact that they kick-start the economy and lead to deeper integration of labour markets. That's what I think would happen if the double-track investment became a reality. I hope that in his last speech the Minister for Infrastructure will be able to give concrete answers as to whether he is prepared to review the regulatory framework for cross-border charging systems in order to allow for expansion. Will he look at other options together with his Norwegian colleague and really make sure that we move from words to action and take steps closer to making the extremely important investment in infrastructure a reality? Thank you for a good debate.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-808	Madam President, I would like I also thank Johan Hultberg for a good discussion, a good debate and a good commitment. It's important. As far as charging systems are concerned, an agreement was concluded between Sweden and Norway with regard to the Svinesund Bridge, where the agreement was that when the bridge is paid, the charges will disappear. It was a clear and strong wish from the Norwegian side, and that moment is now taking place. Then the fees will be completed. This was a good example of how good common solutions can be found between Sweden and Norway. Let us continue to look at the conditions for having good joint projects that strengthen, not least, the labour market regions. Basically, this will be determined by how much resources the Riksdag supports that we will spend on infrastructure investments in the future. We are now receiving evidence, which I have told you about before, from the Swedish Transport Administration on the various objects that we have asked the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate. There are, among other things, the Gothenburg – Oslo section. It will, of course, be a tough priority work. Experience has shown that the desire for investment in infrastructure always far exceeds the framework set by any government. The government and I will be clear about cost control. We will not accept a development in which the costs of infrastructure construction run out, but there will be proper cost control of all infrastructure investments. Today we can see worrying signs that building infrastructure is becoming more expensive and sometimes more expensive in Sweden than in other parts of the world. Then you have to ask yourself the question: Why? Therefore, I have also given Trafikverket a clear mandate to make a proper analysis of the cost increases we can see. Once that is said, it is important at a time like this to strengthen Swedish-Norwegian relations physically and in all other ways. I appreciate the commitment of Johan Hultberg and Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-813	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to strengthen young people's hope for the future and their perception of being able to influence their own lives. Let me begin by thanking Tobias Andersson for the question. The national objective of youth policy is to ensure that all young people have good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence social development. The youth era should be characterized by faith in the future and a sense of increased opportunities, not the other way round. At the same time, we know that today's young people face other, and in many cases larger, challenges than older generations have done. The Covid-19 pandemic has had major consequences for the group of young people. In addition to changing conditions for carrying out their studies and increasing difficulties in establishing themselves in the labour market, it has also meant that young people have been restricted in their leisure time and in their everyday social contacts. It risks reinforcing existing challenges for young people, such as increasing mental illness, lack of power and influence, and increasing socio-economic gaps. In addition, specific events that are significant for youth years, such as student celebrations, have been cancelled and postponed. Madam President, I would like It is worrying that the recent Youth Barometer survey points to the fact that many young people feel that they are unable to influence their future or their lives. According to the same survey, the list of social issues that are most important for young people is top of issues related to healthcare and care, the environment and climate, gender equality and anti-racism. These themes are also recurring about how young people choose to organise themselves. Several of the social movements that have emerged in recent years have involved many young people, and other initiatives are also specifically from young people themselves. Fridays for Future is one such example that has engaged young people around the world in their fight for more comprehensive measures to prevent global warming and climate change. The exploitation of young people's experiences, knowledge and values is a key element in meeting the youth policy objective. We in power have a responsibility to listen to what young people say. At the same time, it is not enough to listen. Young people also need to be involved and given the opportunity to exert influence in decisions that directly or indirectly affect them. Facilitating and creating the conditions for young people to find ways to and forums for influence is an important part of this work. Young people's opportunities for democratic organisation are important for young people's power and influence over social development. Children's and youth organisations play an important role for many young people's faith in themselves, in the future and in society. As part of this work, the Government decided last autumn to increase the state grant to children's and youth organisations by SEK 50 million for the years 2020– 2022. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, has been commissioned by the Government to develop and disseminate models for how municipalities can work strategically, cross-sectorally and in the long term to strengthen young people's knowledge of local democracy, develop young people's democratic skills and competences, and promote and strengthen young people's participation in democracy. The government will also shortly be presenting a new youth policy letter. The letter contains an account of progress towards the youth policy objective and an action programme aimed at contributing to the achievement of the objective. For every young person who does not feel that they have the power to influence their future or everyday life, our common task is to remove obstacles and promote opportunities for influence and participation. It is my firm conviction that both society and the faith of the future will become stronger when young people have more say.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-820	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Amanda Lind for her reply. I hope that young people's well-being and hope for the future do not have to be a polarising issue between the parties, but rather that we can try to act constructively and jointly. My interpellation was caused by the release of the Generation Z 2021 report by the Youth Barometer on 1 February this year. The report is based on survey responses from around 18,000 young people aged 15-24 years and measures attitudes, hope for the future, and more. In other words, the age span consists exclusively of what the so-called generation Z thinks. Generation Z is also sometimes referred to as "again". It's a word game linked to the various Apple products that start with I and that generation Z at least in the Western world grew up with. Madam President, I would like I was born in 1996 and am therefore one of the very few members of the Parliament who belong to generation Z itself. Therefore, when I took note of the Youth Barometer report, I found it justified to raise the result to a debate with the responsible Minister of State. Having said that, it is of course extremely difficult to shift the results of an individual study too much, but as the Youth Barometer does these studies each year, certain trends can still be discerned. However, parts of the result are still difficult to interpret, even more so if it is to be analysed what it actually says about a youth. One of the greatest identities among young people, for example, is being a dog person. Exactly what conclusions can be drawn from it, in addition to the fact that there are more dog people than cat people among respondents, is difficult to say. Similarly, interest in individual issues as well as young people's self-selected concepts to describe their own identity is likely to be linked to current trends and societal issues. Furthermore, it can be assumed that, as is so often the case, there is an underlying tendency to want to describe oneself, and in this case its identity, with concepts that are believed to be appreciated by others. Despite the problem attitude I have made, the report clearly points out a problem, namely a great deal in young people's hopes for the future. According to the report, young people are more concerned about the future today than a year ago. For the first time, less than half feel hopeful about the future. At the same time, the percentage that fully agrees with the claim is down, and I have great opportunities to influence my own future, and only 39 percent fully agree that they have great opportunities to influence their lives here and now. Madam President, I would like In her answer to the question of what measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to strengthen young people's hope for the future and their perception of how they can influence their own lives, Amanda Lind focuses on civil society organisations and young people's participation in democracy. I definitely think there are important cogs in this wheel. Nevertheless, I would say that perhaps the most important reason why we see the developments we see in the report is directly linked to the pandemic. Although Amanda Lind mentions something in her reply, I would like to hear her further develop this problem. Above all, I would like to hear her answer if there are any measures that can tackle this particular part of the problem, because I have some doubts that more money for MUCF or other organisations is what will make young people feel more confident about the future given the situation they are in right here and now as a consequence of the pandemic.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-828	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Tobias Andersson, for this debate! In my reply, I focused on the overall work on youth policy, for which I am responsible as Minister for Youth. For example, we are going to present a youth policy letter, and it is for me, as Minister for Democracy, of course, also about the direct issues linked to young people's influence and participation and also about young people's leisure time. But it is clear that the efforts of the group of young people are something that spans all the ministers in different ways, I would say. In the letter that we are planning to present, this will also come out. When we started working on the youth policy letter, the pandemic had not yet struck. When we then present the letter, it is clear that we will have to consider the pandemic in the form of a current situation report on where we are in our work and also in the future. The direct impact on the youth group following the pandemic is a bit difficult to see today. But we can certainly see how the labour market has been affected very much for the group of young people. The jobs that usually are clear entry-level jobs for young people into work in hotels, restaurants, culture and entertainment and seasonal work in the tourism industry are hard at the edge. It's problematic. As I said in my reply, the possibility of completing schooling and education has also been greatly influenced, although I would like to say that it has been important for the government to maintain the opportunities for young people to remain in school as far as possible and to try as far as possible to avoid closures. Now we are at a stage in the pandemic when this has been necessary to limit the spread of infection, but it is still something that the government has very high on its priority: young people should not have to lose their opportunities for a good education, and there should be valves for the young people who are most vulnerable. We note that those young people who are farthest from education, farthest from culture, sport and active leisure time, those who may have a disability or other difficulties in entering the labour market, for example, and in making their voice heard, are also at risk of being hit hardest by the pandemic. Another area I would like to raise is mental illness. It is also an area where an even more strained situation can be feared due to the pandemic. I had a dialogue the other day with youth representatives of the FUB, an organisation that brings together young people with intellectual disabilities. It is a typical group of people who are having an extremely tough time during the pandemic. Perhaps they already had limited social contacts, and these opportunities are now becoming even more difficult. Digitisation also creates gaps because not everyone has access to iPhones and the like or to a quick wifi at home. To conclude: we need to remember, as the Minister for Youth, the group of young people in all policy areas. It is a question of involving young people in the preparation of proposals. It is a strategic exercise dealing with influence, and there youth organisations have an important role to play. There, the NOD also plays an important role in combining civil society's and government's efforts to engage in dialogue with civil society. It is important that we look at the labour market, mental health, safety issues and also the work with influence. There we have a golden opportunity this year when democracy turns 100, when we can and will make extra efforts precisely to include young people in democracy.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-837	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the answer from Amanda Lind! I would like to think that our description of problems is very similar in many respects, so I, too, look forward to seeing the youth policy letter that the government is working on. I believe, without knowing, that we can probably find common ground on quite a few issues and measures on this subject. Again, I do not wish to see young people's declining hope for the future as a polarising issue in the party political debate. On the contrary, my ambition, both as an individual Member and as a party representative, is that we can reach a constructive solution together. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to come back to the fact that in my first speech I emphasised precisely that the initial response from Amanda Lind did not really develop the pandemic's guilt in this context, although I am grateful for her mentioning it further now. When I was younger, I was a team athlete. It was a big part of both my life and my identity. I can therefore say that I am suffering from those young people who have not been able to exercise this as usual in the past year. In addition, add distance learning and how it deprived many young people of the social environment of school days. Add that school closures and student celebrations have not taken place as usual, so you understand the strain the pandemic has put on many young people. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that partying is a large part of many youth years. Not being able to hang out with friends, not being able to eat out, not being able to go to a bar or a nightclub, and so on have undeniably made the lives of many young people more gray. Moreover, whether the restrictions have actually resulted in a limited spread of infection is not clear from the fact that it has not yet been demonstrated that there has been an uncontrolled spread of infection in restaurants, for example. On the contrary, it can be assumed that many young people have secured an outlet for their party cravings through tight home parties rather than within a regulated and controlled restaurant environment. However, Madam President, we are not here to debate the accuracy and impact of restrictions, but I would just like to highlight how a number of them have affected young people. My point is that this is likely to have been a major contributor to the results of the Youth Barometer report. At the same time, we must not forget other problems facing the young people of Sweden. It would not be far-fetched to assume that young people's hopes for the future are influenced by the well-being and security they experience, or do not experience, in their daily lives. Unfortunately, mental illness among young people has grown over time, and the trend has continued under the two governments of Lövven. Every other young girl has suffered from mental illness, while care is not offered on time. Furthermore, insecurity spreads. Every other ninth grader is worried about being subjected to crime, and every other woman between the ages of 20 and 24 often worries about being raped or being subjected to other sexual abuse. The youth robbery has increased by 250 per cent since 2013, and one in three young women reported sexual crimes in 2019. And we can go on. In a daily life of insecurity, one is unlikely to be an optimist about one's own future. Of course, all these issues that have resulted in young people's situation today, Amanda Lind is not the sole minister for which she is ultimately responsible. Nevertheless, it can be noted that the government has failed in this area.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-848	Madam President, I would like I want to come back to the management of the pandemic and the spread of infection, because I think what Tobias Andersson says is important: many young people belong to the group that has been affected by the restrictions. That is absolutely the case. It has been important for the government to ensure that children and young people have as normal a daily life as possible. It has been a priority, not least for sports and leisure activities. The period when the restrictions were the hardest and when the children were not able to practise their sport in the most common and normal way possible was a very tough period. The first thing the government and the Swedish Public Health Agency did when it was possible – we had a completely shared view – was to give the very youngest children the opportunity to return to their leisure activities. The next step was the older children, the teenagers. Because we know that going to your football club and playing, being part of the cultural school or being part of another context with other people is very important for a youth's development. I hope that we will have the opportunity to hold on to this as far as possible, with respect, of course, for the spread of the disease. We have also tried to be as pragmatic as possible in terms of children's schooling. There the government has made it possible for so-called local education with different flexible levels. You don't have to work with a complete closure of a school or get back to being at the school, but you can find different flexible solutions based on the spread of infection – also so that there are valves for the children who have the greatest needs. I think we need to come back to this when it comes to the debate on young people in particular: it is not that the youth group in Sweden generally has more problems than any other group or would be particularly affected in the greater sense. On the other hand, there are specific problems facing the youth group, not least the most vulnerable young people. I see a great risk now with the pandemic that that group will then have the most difficult to recover. Madam President, I would like We have a great deal of effort that was launched even before the pandemic by the government, of course also in other policy areas than those for which I am responsible as a minister. We are making a major effort on mental health with a special focus on child and youth psychiatry, in cooperation and handshake with SKR. This is an initiative that I am particularly passionate about with my background in child and youth psychiatry. We are also making a continued commitment to security. It is a huge problem with the perceived lack of security among young people today, both girls and boys. There are, of course, huge investments in police officers, in prosecution and in countering gang crime. This also applies to other security-enhancing measures, for which the municipalities in particular have a great deal of responsibility. I would also like to return to the important work of including young people when various measures are to be developed to highlight Sweden back after the pandemic. We must remember to have those dialogues. This applies both at national and municipal level, where many of the decisions are made that concern young people themselves. An important work that I see we have now – it applies to all parties – during the centenary year when democracy turns 100 years old is to look at the group of young people in particular and include and involve them in the conversation. Here we have given a mission to MUCF to develop different types of tools and support for municipalities to provide knowledge to young people and help them get into the democratic dialogues and processes. The school plays an extremely important role in reaching all young people. This is one of the focus areas that I see as absolutely most important during the centenary year.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-856	Madam President, I would like For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that I have not claimed that young people would be the most affected group. On the contrary, I think that young people have been neglected for quite natural reasons. For certain reasons, for example, young people have found it easier to survive the virus. As a result, however, the consequences for young people have not rarely fallen into the media shadow. I therefore consider it important to highlight the problems faced by young people. We see that loneliness is increasing among young people. We see that mental illness was unacceptably high even before the pandemic. We know that the queues for child and youth psychiatry tripled during the previous parliamentary term. We see that more and more young people feel insecure to be exposed to crime – etc. This is a trend that was already going on before the pandemic, and parts of it are likely to increase and intensify during the pandemic. I would therefore like to say that the general policy pursued by the government – and I cannot blame Amanda Lind alone for – when it comes to both mental illness and establishing security and security in the country has fallen. It has betrayed Sweden's young people. We see this in a number of different instances, not least in the report we are discussing here, but also in crime statistics and so on. On the subject of involving young people, I am proud to be able to represent our youth association as a national spokesperson and also the people and our voters in the Swedish Parliament and thus be able to involve all our members directly into the Swedish elected assembly. I can also proudly point out that the Swedish Democrats, for example, have the youngest parliamentary group. I therefore believe that the Swedish democrats have played their part in this area.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-860	Madam President, I would like The world faced major common challenges even before the coronapandemy, ranging from gleaming climate change – in which many young people today are engaged – to growing anti-democratic forces and economic gaps that are visible in children's growing-up conditions. Madam President, I would like I have never had a hard time understanding that young people can have a harsh view of the future. In addition, we are now in the middle of a pandemic that affects the whole of society, but most severely those who are already living in some form of vulnerability. Many young people are weakly established and insecure in the labour market and are at risk of being severely affected. As we have already discussed, when activities are closed down, from studies to cultural and sports associations, we know that children and young people are becoming more dependent on their home conditions, which risks increasing inequality. I would like to return to the fact that young people are a heterogeneous group with different interests, wills and values. However, common ground is that we want youth time to be characterised by a sense of opportunity and belief in the future, and that has become more difficult in this crisis. The most important thing I see that we can do is deliver results that make a difference in young people's everyday lives, and here is the opportunity to strengthen young people's influence an important part. I am also proud that we in the government are facing the effects of the pandemic by investing in young people by increasing opportunities for jobs and jobs, investing in schools and supporting sport and culture so that there will be opportunities for young people to return to an even more active leisure after the pandemic. Not least, we also strengthen the democratic participation of young people by increasing support for organisations that organise young people, which we know is an important part of the integration of party politics. I'm convinced that all people grow by being included. We need to build a stronger society, and then the involvement of young people and young people is an important voice in the building work that we have to do after the pandemic.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-865	Madam President, I would like Ciczie Weidby has asked me how I view the problems of the gig economy and the vulnerability of gig workers. She has asked what measures, in addition to those already taken, I am prepared to take to counter these problems. She has also asked how I intend to ensure that those who do the gig economy work are offered secure employment, decent wages and good working conditions within the framework of the Swedish labour market model. Finally, she asks me how I intend to regulate the gig economy and when such regulation can be in place. Bad working conditions do not belong in the Swedish labour market. Everyone who works in Sweden must have good working conditions and a safe working environment, regardless of the form of the work. No one who works in Sweden should have a job where you are exploited or worn out. Technological developments make it possible to create new services and jobs through digital platforms provided by, for example, gig companies. Changes in working life affect how we work, but good working conditions and a high level of protection in the field of health and safety at work should apply to everyone working in the platform economy, as well as to workers in the rest of the labour market. The Swedish model's ability to adapt quickly means that Sweden is well placed to meet the changes that are taking place in the labour market. Wages and conditions are regulated primarily by the social partners. The Swedish model and labour market policy are based on a clear division of responsibilities between the state and the parties. The fact that the parties take a great responsibility for the regulation of the labour market and adapt the conditions to the conditions in different industries is an important part of the Swedish model. D also applies to the platform economy. It has been proven time and again that the collective agreement model is capable of regulating new types of activities and creating order and order in the labour market. The trade unions, such as the Transport Workers' Union and the Union, are doing a very important job here and several collective agreements are already in place. Now more platform companies need to get to the negotiating table and sign collective agreements that lead to secure employment and a good working environment. The social partners have an important role to play, but of course the state also has a responsibility. Since the government took office last term, an increased level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. Resources in the area have been greatly strengthened, with resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency for more inspectors and increased presence at the workplace. We will ensure that the OSH tools are properly designed to address the challenges of the platform economy. There shall be predictable and secure conditions in a changing working life. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Work Environment Authority conducts a pilot project in the form of a supervisory effort focusing on new ways of organising work. The pilot project will be finalised in February 2022. On 11 February, the Government presented a new strategy for health and safety at work for 2021 – 2025. In situations where services are provided through new digital tools, there should be no confusion in the responsibility for health and safety at work. Responsibilities should be clarified and the conditions for such responsibilities reviewed. Everyone working on platforms should have access to a good and safe working environment. In addition, the unemployment insurance has been examined with a view to proposing measures that allow more to be covered. In June 2020, the report presented a new framework for unemployment insurance. The study presents proposals aimed at improving the effectiveness of unemployment insurance, making it more predictable and easier to adapt to changing labour markets. The report has been referred this autumn and is now being prepared in the Government Office. It is also important that the labour market is in order. One issue discussed at EU level is how tax authorities can check that tax is correctly paid by sellers on digital platforms. The Commission has made a proposal requiring operators of platforms providing, inter alia, personal services to report sellers on the platforms and compensation paid to them during the year to the Swedish Tax Agency. In conclusion, the Swedish model is flexible and has repeatedly shown that it can meet the changes in the labour market, but I follow developments in this area closely.
i-TcQoHjHzqTthcfkEJzWt8L	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Nordmark, for your answer. It is a good thing that Eva Nordmark, as she said in her reply, makes clear that good working conditions and a high level of protection of health and safety at work will apply to everyone working in the platform economy, as well as to workers in the rest of the labour market. But that is not the case at present, because they have lower wages, lower working conditions and a worse working environment. Unfortunately, therefore, the question remains: how does the Minister intend to ensure that those who do the work in the gig economy are offered secure employment, decent wages and good working conditions within the framework of the Swedish labour market model? Eva Nordmark makes it clear that the state also has a responsibility, but as far as the Government's ambition for health and safety policy is concerned, it is true that the Government has contributed more resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority in recent years after the Alliance's severe cuts. At the same time, however, as the Left Party has repeatedly pointed out, this has not been able to repair the damage and take up the height of new needs that have arisen. For example, the work review shows that Sweden has a significantly smaller government health and safety budget and fewer inspectors than our neighbouring countries in terms of the number of employees. Sweden does not therefore meet the ILO's requirement that there should be one inspector per 10 000 workers. If the government invested more resources in the Swedish Work Environment Authority, more inspectors could be employed, special expertise in different areas preserved and developed and more inspections carried out. The Left Party has long and persistently highlighted the importance of allocating more money to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which we also show in our budget exercise for 2021. We assume that the increase in ambition that the Government has in its work environment strategy is followed by increased funding for the Swedish Work Environment Authority in line with the Left Party's proposal. Madam President, I would like As regards Eva Nordmark's promise to ensure that the OSH tools are properly designed to address the challenges of the platform economy and that there will be predictable and secure conditions in a changing working life, I wonder how it will be done in practice. How should health and safety tools be designed? I also read in the Government's strategy for health and safety at work for 2021 – 2025 that responsibility should be clarified and the conditions for such responsibility reviewed. But when is it going to happen? In our follow-up motion for the Government's strategy on health and safety at work, we suggest that the Government should urgently set up an investigation with the task of clarifying the responsibility for the working environment in the gig economy. My last question will be: will the government set up an investigation in the near future?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-882	Madam President, I would like I intend to come back with information in the near future on the importance of being able to review the health and safety acquis. It is both about ensuring that the work environment law that we have today, which was created in the 1970s, and the regulations as such are better adapted to today's modern working life. It is both about creating a greater gender equality focus in health and safety policy and about that there must be no confusion about who has the responsibility for working environment, whether you work through an app or at your kitchen table, as hundreds of thousands of people do with a pandemic going on and working remotely. Today there are a number of ambiguities, and it is therefore very important that we can also ensure that we have a regulatory framework that keeps up with the developments that we have in the labour market. I would also like to say that, with regard to the platform economy, it contains a lot of different types of activities. It is the bike messenger who delivers food, it is the programmer who takes consulting assignments and it is the student who takes an extra crack in perhaps accounting or administration. Sometimes it is about new ways of conveying services that already existed, and sometimes it is about completely new types of services. Basically, it is positive that technology enables development in our labour market that brings new jobs and new services. But the important thing here, Madam President, on which we agree is that the conditions must be good. I can only agree that far too many platform companies seem to make it their business idea to offer poor wages and poor conditions. I cannot stress enough that exploitation and exploitation do not belong in the Swedish labour market. It has to go, with or without the app. The solutions will look different for different sectors, and they also need to look different for different services. The solution that is excellent for a bicycle messenger can certainly be inappropriate for other types of services. That is why it is so important to emphasise that the solution to this is to do the same as we usually do, namely through the party model and through collective agreements. It is then and in this way that we can get the industry-friendly solutions and also sustainable solutions over time when employers and workers' organisations, so to speak, own what concerns the conditions and can negotiate on this. I would say that the Swedish model is the world best at facing change and a working life that is constantly changing. Madam President, I would like I myself have 20 years of experience in trade union work and have seen many changes taking place in the Swedish labour market. When the temporary agency came to Sweden it was a new phenomenon, and a lot of people said: This means the end of the Swedish model, this changes the whole labour market and it does not fit in with the Swedish model. I can only say that it has been shown time and again that it is our model of strong responsible parties that delivers the solution to new phenomena in the labour market. I am convinced that it is also possible for the apps. It is important that we politicians are not too tricky and try to regulate in detail. Then we risk creating a regulatory framework that is quickly dated, as there are constantly new changes that change the playing field. Collective agreements are always the best starting point.
i-5MXWgW7HUStj5b7te8ArYg	President. - Thank you very much. Thank you, Eva Nordmark! Hundreds of years ago, workers stood down in the harbor with their hat in their hand, hoping to get their hands cut for the day. It was an early version of gig economics. The word gig comes from the music industry. You often lack employment and get to take a job at a time. You don't always have a fixed workplace and have very little contact with the company or with your colleagues. You just connect through an app with a private person or another company who orders a service from you. It could be a food delivery or moving furniture. The salary is paid per assignment, and there is no guarantee of how many hours you will work that week or month. Nor is it certain that you are employed by the company you work for. Companies can often count on self-employed workers. In this way, companies do not have to deal with the labour law that applies to ordinary employers. In this way, they evade responsibility for what happens at work. It is good that, under pressure from trade unions, gig companies recognise the value of signing collective agreements. It provides basic protection in terms of pay and working conditions. It sets a standard for the industry. It can also put pressure on other gig companies to sign collective agreements. At the same time, there is a risk that, despite collective agreements, some gig companies will try to find other ways of putting pressure on their costs, which in principle are almost always wages and conditions. They do so by, for example, hiring people on precarious and fixed-term contracts or by dismissing them and hiring them as self-employed workers. Foodora in Norway did so with some workers who went on strike to get collective agreements. Madam President, I would like Collective agreements are therefore not enough. More is needed to improve wages and conditions in the gig economy. Yesterday I met some workers, Francisco, Isabel and Anders who are all three bike messengers at Foodora. We talked about many things, but there was one thing they wanted me to take with me: Why is union organization and collective agreements according to the Swedish model hailed as the best and only solution when it is so easy for companies to round the rules and create the flexibility that suits them? It is not easy to recruit members of an industry that is so insecure. Maybe one day you're a bike messenger. On the second day, you gig as a dishwasher and the third as a babysitter. What covenant should you organize yourself in? And how obvious is it to engage in trade unionism when you don't know how long to stay in the business? Nor is it certain that you feel a professional pride that makes you want to run the trade union struggle. Flexibility and efficiency are a major part of the gig company's marketing. When working in the gig economy you should always be prepared that a large part of the time is standby mode while waiting for the chance to get a new job. You're supposed to be flexible. How does Eva Nordmark see that flexibility always lands in the fact that employers get more freedom and that those who sell their workers always get less freedom?
i-PQiM5ZkC9KwqaHAkzQvEoN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ciczie Weidby! That is why it is incredibly important to organise yourself, so that, together with others with equivalent work or in the same industry, you can make demands on good wages and good conditions. That's the way. Alone is not strong. It is with its colleagues that you can push demands for trade union improvements. It turns out. The interpellant said it himself. When people a hundred years ago stood with their hat in hand, it was the union organisation that was the way to improve wages and conditions and have a decent life. It is clear that the Swedish labour market has changed enormously over all these years. Changes happen all the time. The organisation of trade unions and trade unions must be relevant, be able to sign agreements and have the strength to make demands on employers. Employers must also take responsibility for fair competition and ensure that companies that try to cheat themselves over with sometimes unreasonable tax schemes or poor wages and conditions do not compete out of the serious employers. I believe that this is the way we are going to regulate this type of new phenomenon in the Swedish labour market. We already see that several collective agreements are signed. Madam President, I would like I'm not saying this is simple. It is hard work, and it is difficult work in many ways. But it is the strength of the Swedish party model to jointly settle the rules of the labour market. The state also has a responsibility. In my introduction, I mentioned that, for example, occupational safety and health responsibility, which rules should apply, is of course an important tool for the state. But this also applies, for example, to security systems. Let's take the unemployment fund as an example. It is important that we receive unemployment insurance that can cover more and that takes up the increase because people today do not have permanent employment, as they had only 10 or 20 years ago. Today there are many more in the labour market with different types of combined services as contractors or freelancers. That is why, of course, we need to take responsibility for our security systems, so that they are also adapted to the new labour market. I also mentioned tax issues. We have a discussion on the European stage about precisely platform companies and the gig economy. I see a lot of things going to happen in the coming years. We will both see new collective agreements signed and new regulations in place regarding, for example, health and safety legislation. We will certainly have great success but also learn from some mistakes. When the labour market changes, major changes are always taking place, and all the different actors – the state, the parties and others – need to assume their responsibilities to regulate and ensure that everyone working in the Swedish labour market has good conditions. That, of course, is also my starting point and the government's starting point. We should not accept any labour law in light version for these companies. The apps will become part of the Swedish model. There are those who want to introduce special rules for platforms. But my answer is: We shouldn't have a cream file with more relaxed rules for apps. We should not distort competition. But sometimes, as I said, we may have to screw our tools.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-908	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Eva Nordmark for the debate, although there are still a number of questions to be asked and there are more questions to be raised. It's about what kind of working life we're going to have in the future. Should we have a hat-in-hand work life where people can be dismissed during the day and where you don't dare stand up for your rights? We've tried that before, and it didn't go well. Then we had widespread poverty, misery, low productivity and the highest number of strike days throughout Western Europe. The debate on the working life of the future in general and the gig economy in particular is highly topical in Sweden. I am concerned that the so-called unsocialist Labour Party, together with its neo-liberal friends, thinks that labour law needs to be modernised in order to meet the working life of the future and that it will be easier and cheaper to lay off workers or give them precarious conditions. There are other issues to which there is every reason to come back. We have an unemployment fund based on income and not on working time. We have bogus self-employment, which is a fundamental problem for many gig companies, and we have gig companies that want to negotiate their own agreements that could lead to the dumping of the agreements that already exist in the industry. Madam President, I would like There is nothing modern about increasing job insecurity. The workers need more freedom and security, not less. The working life of the future should mean secure employment and decent conditions for all. The new sectors emerging in the platform economy must be regulated. This is how we modernise labour law. Secure employment and decent wages and conditions shall apply to everyone regardless of the industry.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-913	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ciczie Weidby, for the important debate! We will certainly have to discuss these issues later on. I think that Ciczie Weidby and I basically want the same thing. We want order on the Swedish labour market. We should not have a working life or a labour market where people stand with their hat in hand, but we should ensure that everyone who works – regardless of the form of work – should have good wages and conditions. The Swedish model and collective agreement are the way there. I stand by it. Bad working conditions do not belong in the Swedish labour market. No one who works in Sweden should have a job where you are exploited or worn out. I would like to conclude with the following words. Our working life should be an equal, sustainable and successful working life for everyone who works in our country. We must have a working life that is completely free from all forms of discrimination. We shall have a working life that provides security, development and good health.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-916	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me, in the light of the state inquiry SOU 2020:41, if I and the government want to carry out a municipalisation of Swedish labour market policy. He has also asked if I want to change the terms of private matching actors in any way and if so, how. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me if I have done any analysis of how the municipalisation of the Employment Service benefits both job seekers and employers who are looking for staff, and how I view the investigation's proposals and the possible implementation of the proposals. Employment services are reformed to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. As a result of the reform, the current mandate of the social partners in the field of labour market policy remains unchanged, but its implementation is changing. Employment services will continue to have responsibility for labour market policy, but implementation changes for part of labour market policy efforts. Matching and equipping operations shall mainly be carried out by independent actors. Municipalities are important actors in the field of labour market policy, and their efforts should be exploited. But the government has no plans to localise labour market policy. It remains state and nationally coherent, and the Public Employment Service is the responsible authority. On the other hand, we are investigating the conditions for municipalities that want to act as suppliers for Arbetsförmedlingen. As part of this, the government set up an investigation to investigate the legal conditions for municipalities to participate in the implementation of state labour market policy. A clear starting point for the investigation was that the municipalities' possible participation should be based on voluntary participation. One of the findings of the study is that there are no legal obstacles to municipalities acting as suppliers to the Public Employment Service, either through participation in procurement or freedom of choice systems or through agreements outside the procurement framework. In order to improve the conditions for municipalities' participation, the study proposes, among other things, clarification of the municipalities' powers in the labour market area and proposals to strengthen the conditions for competition on equal terms between municipalities and other independent actors. The report of the investigation has been referred and is now being prepared within the Government Office. The Government will come back to how the investigation's proposal has continued to be handled. To conclude, I would like to say that wherever we land in dealing with these proposals, the government is clear that labour market policy is to work throughout the country. Regardless of where a job seeker lives, you should be able to get support in your job seeker if you need it, and it is a state responsibility to do so.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-922	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The failure of the Employment Service may be one of the biggest failures of this government. Let us take Gävleborg as an example. Gävleborg is one of the counties in Sweden that has received the most new arrivals. They have moved there where there have been vacant dwellings. It is not uncommon that it has become Ockelbo, Sandviken or Ljusdal. These people need a lot of support and effort to enter the labour market. What did the government do? Well, a decision was made that meant that Arbetsförmedlingen suddenly withdrew from a number of smaller towns. Of course, very few people think that the Public Employment Service has historically done a good job. Instead, it may be wise to ensure that companies and alternative performers can match job vacancies and equip job seekers. But to publicise the Public Employment Service, as the Government's response suggests as one of the government's actions, I believe will lead to a poorer employment agency and an out-of-date AF reform. Around the country we are now seeing how a number of municipalities are preparing for a municipalisation. What do the social partners think about this? At least I have seen in the past that the Government protects the social partners, listens to them and weighs in what they think. An organisation called TCO expresses strong scepticism in its referral to the government. At a seminar last Friday, I listened to LO. They were very clear. They simply said no and thought it was a stupid idea to publicise Arbetsförmedlingen. Of course, employers' organisations are also very sceptical. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise expressed sharp criticism, and Almega was of course even more critical. On Friday's Today's Society, SKR's leadership also demanded answers from the government about what it means and what it wants. One of Sweden's leading professors of procurement law, Olle Lundin at Uppsala University, believes that the municipalities' powers are not sufficient to be part of the Public Employment Service's procurements. He put it succinctly and succinctly, as I see it, this illegal activity. It's not compatible with the Local Government Act. – – – The municipality can't make up its own stuff just to reduce its financial deficit. I think they'll have to deal with the municipal law. ..................................................... So I listened to a seminar on Friday. There, the Chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Anna Johansson, said: We have not yet decided. We haven't put our foot down. I have asked this interpellation to find out what the government wants and what it thinks. If you open Pandora's box and allow municipalities to compete with private companies, they will knock away the small companies in smaller towns in Gävleborg. There's no one who can compete with a municipality. No one can carry out loss-making activities as a municipality. That's why the government and the government have to put their foot down. Should municipalities be allowed to participate in the Public Employment Service's procurements or not? The question can be answered by a yes or a no. It is important for the Government to tell us here tonight whether or not it intends to do so. The question can be answered by a yes or a no.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-931	Madam President, I would like In this debate on Employment Services and Employment Services, I would like to start by mentioning the words that the Government concluded its first speech with: Regardless of where a job seeker lives, you should be able to get support in your job seeker if you need it, and it is a state responsibility to do so. ..................................................... In September 2019, a telephone is closed by an administrator at an employment agency in Sweden. Anyone who calls from outside via the switchboard to this number is told that the person no longer works there, because the phone has been switched off for a long time. It is now only possible to reach the person via e-mail, but hardly that either, because when sending e-mails you get the answer: If you have general questions, you can go to the website, but you can also go to Arbetsförmedlingen's Facebook page and so on. That's what you get back on your e-mail. Nor does it seem that the person is alone in working like this. It's supposed to be something that's happening. Madam President, I would like The Government says in its interpellation response: a job seeker should be able to receive support in his/her job seeker if he/she needs it, and it is a state responsibility to do so. ..................................................... One woman was determined to be able to get support and match. She would choose between a number of different suppliers to get the service she needed. Then it took time. After over a week, she was still not assigned. What does the inbox look like at Arbetsförmedlingen? When is an email contact handled that has come in? How do you get there when there's no phone time? What does this mean for those who seek this authority and who will rely on being able to get support and help in finding a job? What does it do to people who do not come to the conclusion that it is almost impossible to find out? I would like to ask the Government if she herself tested the channels into the Public Employment Service or put people to use the links, emails and telephone numbers that will lead to processing at the other end. Have the government and the government collected good examples to find out what really works out there in reality and what it is that makes it not work? This question is crucial to the success of those seeking employment in our country through the Public Employment Service. They are the ones who can deliver real results – and in fact can ultimately bring about change for people by moving from unemployment to work – who have to work with those who have lost their job or never been considered for work. Introduction to work is almost as far from work as you can get from time to time. In any case, this is the feeling and experience that exists. Arbetsförmedlingen is not a place to convey work. The employment agency gathers people and makes decisions, which often take far too long. An employment agency has 400 cases. Is there even time to pass on work if you want to? The fact that there are municipalities that wish to take over the role of Arbetsförmedlingen is quite understandable, while it is sad. It is an appeal from a system that does not work. The sad thing is that so many people get hurt when they don't get there. This can continue as there are no incentive structures to bring people into the labour market. The Government has answered Lars Beckman's question as to whether the Government wishes to carry out a municipalisation of Swedish labour market policy with a no, as I understand it. Lars Beckman's third question in the interpellation was whether there was an analysis of how municipalisation would benefit job seekers and employers. Would municipal participation affect them? Are there municipal restrictions? What does this do with the opportunity to get a chance to communicate work for those companies that are good at this?
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-942	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by repeating what I said at the outset. This is very important. The government has no plans to localise labour market policy. Let us deal with that question! What the reform of the agency is about is that we want to achieve better efficiency in labour market policy activities. It is about giving people the best support to be able to get to work or get closer to work, but also about providing support to those employers who need to hire. We have a great shortage of competent staff in many activities, despite the fact that we have a pandemic and high unemployment. We need to improve and develop labour market policies. The reform means that the state's current mission remains firm, but that the actual performance changes. When we talk about matching and equipping efforts mainly to be carried out by independent actors, I would like to point out that it also includes, of course, non-profit and idea-based actors. The Public Employment Service will continue to have responsibility for labour market policy, but, as I said, implementation itself will change. Lars Beckman wants me to tell him tonight what it's gonna be like. I am, of course, very pleased, Madam President, that there is so much interest in these issues. But I won't be able to tell you tonight. We have referred the investigation and received the views of the consultation bodies. We are currently preparing the report of the investigation within the Government Office and will come back to how the proposals will continue to be dealt with. Then we can certainly discuss this issue again. However, wherever we land in the management itself, labour market policy must work throughout the country. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson highlighted this important perspective. Regardless of where you live in the country, you should be able to get in touch with Arbetsförmedlingen and get the support you need. It is a state responsibility to ensure this. In addition, when reforming the Public Employment Service, it is important to ensure the important role played by municipalities. The cooperation that exists at local level between the municipalities and the Employment Service needs to work well, both in support of individual job seekers and at strategic level, for example in the case of local agreements. Arbetsförmedlingen needs to have a clear responsibility for this collaboration to work well. In this year's regulatory letter, the Government has clarified the Swedish Public Employment Service's mission to ensure equal service and effective local presence throughout the country, even in municipalities where the Public Employment Service has no offices of its own. In this work, Arbetsförmedlingen shall, among other things, ensure operational collaboration with municipalities in individual matters and clearly defined and well-functioning contact paths in each municipality, but also ensure strategic collaboration with municipalities and other actors and promote local projects in collaboration. As I said, no matter how the government lands on the question of the municipalities' ability to act as a supplier to the Public Employment Service, cooperation with the municipalities needs to be strengthened.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-950	Madam President, I would like It is precisely the State Council and the Government's unclear information that has created the uncertainty that exists in the country's municipalities. A municipality that may stand out a little extra is Karlshamn municipality. An application has been submitted to Arbetsförmedlingen. Even in the municipality of Ljusdal at home in my constituency, such a decision would have been made today, but there was a referral back on the board in question. You can listen to what the government's party friends in the country say. Social Democrat Ulla Sandgren is chairman of the Board for Work and Welfare in Karlshamn Municipality. How, then, does she justify their application? This is what she writes in Sydöstran on February 14th: our view is that the money should not end up in the pockets of the large companies or groups, but should be used in the municipality. ... There is also a lot of talk about profit in such contexts. We Social Democrats do not like it when profit is the driving force. ..................................................... As I understand it, the January agreement guided this reform of the Public Employment Service. I note that there are centre parties and liberals who express themselves in a completely different way from those of the party friends of the Government. Then I have to ask: Is Minister Eva Nordmark behind her party colleague's ideological motivation for Karlshamn's municipality wanting to be part of the Public Employment Service's procurements? The problem arises, just as I said in my previous post, if you open Pandora's box and give municipalities the opportunity to compete out private companies. I think Ulla Sandgren is completely honest when she writes her speech. I think this is exactly what she thinks and means. But if you open Pandora's box, Madam President, I can assure you that there will be no private companies in Ljusdal municipality in a few years' time. There is not a single company in the world that can compete with a municipality. In addition, a municipality can work with people with income support. For example, at home in my constituency, extra services have been used as a way of getting people out of support. It is therefore the only reason why people have been put into extra service, not that they should enter the labour market. The municipal council in Gävle was very clear, and the municipal councillor in Sandviken was even clearer: We must remove people from the support. If one imagines that one municipality can work with another column by competing out private companies, it undermines the possibility for private companies to act. I would like to know: Does the Government share its party friend's motivation for a municipality to start this activity? When can municipalities get a clearer legal position? When's a message coming from the government? Does the Government think it is right or wrong for Karlshamn municipality to submit this application? What does the Government prefer? Does the Government prefer a privately run company that helps or a municipality that wants to run this business for ideological reasons? It does not do so because it is good for the job seekers and not because it is good for the companies or for someone else. Apparently, the motive is economic factors. You can respect that. That is probably why they became socialist and active in the Social Democrats. But I wonder as far as the reform is concerned. I'd like to know.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-959	Madam President, I would like The debate here on Employment Services, municipalities and private actors is extremely important from the point of view that the most important thing that can happen is that those actors who have really, including the agency and municipalities, shown good results in terms of people moving from unemployment to work need to be the ones from which the state places an order. By that I mean that achieved results must be the focus when you make your governance from the state. What I want the Government to respond to in its forthcoming speech is precisely this. I can see nothing more important than that there are good suppliers who in different ways are struggling out there and of which we could have many more. It depends on what instruments exist and how change can be achieved. The aim must be for as many people as possible to enter the labour market. What happens is that Arbetsförmedlingen makes procurements based on the lowest price. We have heard about this. It can do that. But when the price per participant is SEK 86, which is the sum paid in a Skåne municipality, you can also not be able to magic with your knees. Prices then also include expectations. These expectations are that it should include study and career advisers. There is a request for highly educated behavioural scientists, educators and preferably psychologists. Anyone can understand that this equation doesn't make sense. A monthly sum for the number of working days of the month – because you only count the days you are at work, and at best it will be 21 days – will be 1 806 SEK per month per participant. A quick calculation by the Government or the Ministry gives the obvious answer. Wanting quality but going at the lowest price in procurement will be a form of dumping in this case when and if the authority does not request and has calculated for itself what it costs. Instead, the Public Employment Service should make public procurements that reward the achievement of results for those who are going to take action for work. This brings us to Lars Beckman's question about whether the Minister and the Government want to change the conditions for private matching actors in some way and if so how.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-965	Madam President, I would like The government will return in the spring with a so-called department letter that will clarify the questions asked here by Lars Beckman and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. We will certainly have reason to return to this type of debate. Of course, it is absolutely crucial that we have a labour market policy that works well and works well throughout the country. I would like to emphasise that no matter what needs to be done, cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities is ensured. What we see is that although labour market policy is government policy, many municipalities today offer labour market policy interventions in some form. Of course, it plays a very important role. An IFAU study from 2019 concludes that the most common interventions were job seeker activities, internships and municipal employment contracts. The participants in municipal programmes had on average higher and more long-term reception of financial assistance than the participants in the Public Employment Service's efforts. These are often actions for people who are very far removed from the labour market. As mentioned above, a special investigator has been tasked with assessing the ability of municipalities to act as suppliers to the labour market. These are very complex issues that affect the intersections between several different regulations. The investigator has arrived in the assessment that there is likely to be such a possibility for the municipalities but that there are still several uncertainties. The study therefore proposes amendments aimed, in particular, at clarifying the powers of municipalities and limiting distortions of competition. As I mentioned in my previous speech, the investigation has now been referred and prepared within the Government Office. We will have to come back, Madam President, to how the investigation continues to be handled. What is important to say is that the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen should take place stage by stage and arranged. There shall be conditions for continuous changes. This is important given that the labour market is changing, and then labour market policy must also be able to change. We will take advantage of the comments received during the consultation round and weigh all these together with the other elements of the reform. The efforts of municipalities must be taken care of. We have no plans to localise labour market policy. I really want to underline that again. The possible participation of municipalities shall be based on voluntary participation. There should be a functioning state and national labour market policy throughout the country, both during the implementation period itself and in the long term.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-971	Madam President, I would like The involvement of municipalities in these issues is clear. They sit with black elephants because of a lot of new arrivals who need a lot of help. Of course, to get people out of support, you do what you can. Let's make a few points. One is that one of Sweden's most skilled professors, Olle Lundin at Uppsala University, is very clear: As I judge this is illegal activity, it is not compatible with the Municipal Act, he says. I note that the Minister did not respond if she agrees with the Chairman Ulla Sandgren of the Board for Work and Welfare in Karlshamn Municipality. Does the Government share the motive for that municipality applying? We do not think that the money should end up in the pockets of the large companies or groups. That is ideologically justified. Madam President, I would like That is exactly what will happen if you open Pandora's box and allow the municipalities to compete with private companies. It cannot be in anyone's interest to do so. The legal situation is unclear. Many municipalities are very concerned at the moment. It is important for the government to put its foot down as a matter of urgency. I have noted that, in this debate, the Government has not said whether she thinks that a municipality should participate in the procurement or whether she does not. If the Government did not think so, we heard another interpellation debate this evening on gig economics. There, the Government was very clear. Why is it so hard to put your foot down in this debate? Yes or no, should municipalities compete out private companies? It would be interesting to hear the Government's answer to the simple question that many local politicians out there ask themselves.
i-d288eb1996fcbfa5-977	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman is a very experienced Member of Parliament. He also knows that we need respect for processing processes, however boring it may sound. I will come back to you in the spring in the form of a letter from the department which we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss further. We are now making huge investments in labour market policy. It is important that state-owned national coherent labour market policies and the Public Employment Service have the right tools and conditions to carry out their important work. Many municipalities also make a huge contribution. It is also an important starting point for me as Minister of Labour and Social Democrats that we should use our resources effectively. We will ensure that many actors can contribute to equipping and matching people to get into work or closer to work. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. I am very proud that we can make these strong efforts. We are strengthening the Employment Service by 1 billion to meet the rising unemployment rate and to ensure local presence throughout the country. In addition, we invest more than SEK 2 billion to increase the number of participants in labour market training, procured matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. In the budget we put forward in the budget proposal for 20 21 with an effort of over 100 billion to meet the effects of the coronapandemy, it is about 75 000 jobs. In addition, we have strengthened the unemployment fund, and we are investing in labour market policy throughout the country. We are also creating educational opportunities for future jobs. It should be remembered that this is a very important key to creating a better and well-functioning labour market. It is also important to equip people in the time we have right now.
