i-d869bce87c22df5e-8	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to talk about the report NU6 by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the Government's proposal An opportunity for a new report on the reconciliation of support for short-term work and a new procedure for late notification of reconciliation. I would like to begin by calling for the unanimous proposal of the Committee on Industry to be approved on the proposal in paragraph 1, but I would also like to support our reservation in paragraph 2. Madam President, I would like Sweden and the world have been in a challenging position for over a year and a half. During this difficult crisis, many have been ill in covid-19, and many have left us in this terrible infection. Many children and students have had a tough time with distance learning. The health workers, standing at the front of the front line, have worked so hard and continue to do so, and many are the workers and entrepreneurs who have struggled. There are different ways to deal with a crisis. We in this House have had the opportunity, because Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson had saved in the barns, to decide on an extra amending budget after an extra amending budget. We are now up to over SEK 400 billion to cope with welfare, manage jobs and manage companies. That, Madam President, has never happened before. What we Social Democrats learned during the financial crisis was that there was then no demand for support for welfare, businesses and workers. As far as short-term work is concerned, the then moderate-led government had stopped listening and kept saying no, which led to the disappearance of 100,000 industrial jobs. Other countries that had introduced short-term work saved both jobs and competitiveness, and the recovery took place there more quickly. Madam President, I would like The business support that has been set up during the pandemic crisis is therefore new aid. More than SEK 100 billion of taxpayers' money has gone directly to help businesses in this crisis. Short-term work aid, what we are trying to improve today, has been the most sought-after aid, and the largest share of resources has been paid out in this aid. About SEK 40 billion and over 600 000 short-term jobs have been granted so far. Many are the workers who have not lost their jobs during this crisis, while the companies have retained their skills and have been able to start up immediately, which, Madam President, is absolutely fantastic. However, Madam President, when new aid starts to operate with so many applications and a completely new system, adjustments may be needed. This led a unanimous committee to make announcements about improvements in support for short-term work, which now the government partially returns to Parliament. Now the government proposes that the employer be given the opportunity to submit a new report on reconciliation in the event that the previous reconciliation has not been filed in due time and that the refund decision has become final. The aim is, of course, to mitigate the effects of the repayment obligation. There are those who have submitted a few days late, Madam President, which has resulted in them being liable for the entire amount. The proposal also proposes to introduce a provision requiring an employer who has not submitted a timely reconciliation notification to do so before any decision on the reimbursement of aid is taken. That's so there'll be some proportions in the decisions. The employer shall not become liable for repayment until the order has not been complied with. Madam President, I would like As far as our reservation is concerned, at the request of us, the Committee on Economic Affairs has called the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Boverket, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority to hear how they view the proposal of the majority of the committee to investigate whether any delayed payments by the authorities have led to the insolvency of companies and thus to the insolvency of the bailiff. The answer given to the committee was that according to the Swedish Agency for Growth, about 20 companies have not received support because the company is located in the royal court. For information, Madam President, the Swedish Agency for Growth has received about 100 000 applications for support, so 20 is a very small part of it. According to the bailiff, it is rarely for a single reason you end up there, but there are usually several. It also appeared at the beginning of the pandemic, in April 2020. At that time, bankruptcy claims increased by 37 per cent, i.e. immediately when the pandemic started. When the first aid came in May, it fell to 7 per cent. The Swedish Enforcement Authority also told the committee that now during the pandemic there are altogether fewer companies that have ended up with them than in a normal year. The Swedish Tax Agency spoke about efforts that have helped companies avoid going to the bailiff. The authorities also reported their processing times and that they have not received a signal that processing times for payments would have been a reason why companies have ended up with the enforcement officer. It was also said that it is not possible to carry out an analysis at company level about the same. The government has put in place a review of the support, and the first part of the report comes in spring. Fewer companies are therefore found in the bailiff during the pandemic than in a normal year, which shows that the aid really works. That is why, Madam President, we have written our reservation. Because it feels a little bit like the majority of the committee in this case is gimmicking. Madam President, I would like We in this House, like so many others in Sweden, have had the opportunity to vaccinate us. We are doing this in order for society to return to the more normal, so that the health care professionals can graze the health debt we have and so that we can go back to the workplace and go to the theatre, football and restaurant. We do this so that our elderly do not have to stay at home and that our young people can go to school. We are vaccinating ourselves out of solidarity with and out of concern for each other. Now I very much hope that everyone who can and who has not yet been vaccinated will do so so so that we continue to help ensure that the spread of infection is reduced and that the lives of both citizens and businesses, as we are discussing here today, are made easier. Finally, Madam President, over 600 000 short-term aid has been granted. It shows the need, and it shows how many workers and companies have been helped in this crisis when a Social Democratic-led government rules. And that, Madam President, is really important!
i-d869bce87c22df5e-27	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report on the amendment of the law requiring the Parliament to adopt the Government's draft legislative amendments and a new law which, among other things, means that employers who have become repayable for preliminary support in the case of short-term work may, in certain cases, submit a new notification for the reconciliation of preliminary support in the case of short-term work. The new law is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2022, but the legislative changes are proposed to enter into force on 1 November 2021– hence the fast pucks we are on. Madam President, I would like I just have to draw your attention to all of you who listen to how much we have jointly done to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic – to how many companies have been saved and how many jobs are actually left now that we are so slowly returning to reasonably normal conditions. But remember, that's the common thing that's stood for the bill! It is not the venture capitalists, it is not the big banks and it is not the stock-market sharks. It is with common forces that we can realize wonders, because it is a bit of a miracle that we have been able to pick up 400 billion in 2020 and 2021 to mitigate the consequences and make a powerful green restart. As the Social Democrat AnnaAnna-Caren mentioned, the muscles were not previously there. But I would like to remind you of one thing: the banks were good at saving, but nothing else. Madam President, I would like Now to the second point of decision in the report, which concerns a declaration to the government which I and the Left Party do not support. I therefore naturally support our reservation. The announcement is that the government should analyse the extent to which employers have ended up with the bailiff without fault of their own by promising support due to the Corona virus delayed or absent. It is also a question of taking initiatives, if necessary, to deal with the problems that have arisen for these entrepreneurs because of this. I fully understand that there may be companies that, without fault of their own, end up between chairs. But here, as I see it, the committee has given too broad a mandate as it is not just about support for short-term work, but about all support for the Corona virus. Madam President, I would like Then I would like to point out that the vast majority of companies are serious and honest and certainly want to do the right thing. But when it comes to the mission that the announcement is about, we may actually end up in the wrong place. I would like the parties that push through the announcement to have the same fervor in helping people who, as they say, have fallen between the chairs without fault. Of course, I'm talking about people who have worked for maybe 30 years in so-called simple jobs. It is these jobs that the parties behind the announcement drive so important to get people to. I'm not reducing anyone's career choices or jobs. But I think of the people who have worked in jobs with relatively low pay and worn themselves out at work. Then they get sick and are not believed by insurance doctors. They are secured, and eventually they end up with the bailiff. That, if anything, is degrading and a failure from a society that should be for everyone. Some may even be scraped in a short time, for they have never had the space to build up a buffer. Then it will be to leave houses and homes for them, just because we have drained our welfare system in search of lowering taxes to the wealthy. Over 250 children were evicted from their homes last year. Why, Madam President, do these parties not fight for these people, who, without fault, have gone to the bailiff? I am convinced that the vast majority of those who, due to illness, have fallen between the chairs also want to do the right thing and are honest citizens. There may be a few in the two categories that I compare here today that do not have honest intent; that may be the case. But I hope that the system that we are building in Sweden will ensure both companies and citizens in an equal way when they fail without fault of their own.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-40	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved on the legislative amendments which will allow certain applications for short-term aid to be reconsidered and to extend the possibility of aid beyond 1 November. I also support our request to monitor the various effects of aid. This is needed to prevent a wave of bankruptcies – something we do not want to see now that society returns to normal. The risk exists if the systems do not function optimally and the pandemic is about to blow off. There are warning bells ringing that everything doesn't work perfectly, but we really don't know. Madam President, I would like We have suffered and are still suffering from the worst pandemic we have seen in the country since the Spanish flu 100 years ago. A pandemic is one of the most difficult crises the world can face. Different crises are the same in different ways, but they still affect differently. When, at the end of February 2020, we moderated our understanding that the pandemic would not only affect those parts of the world where it had begun, but the whole world, we began to work hard on proposals. They were not only about how we could save lives and avoid sickness, but also about how we could save our jobs, our companies and our economy – this to take our responsibility in the Riksdag to save Sweden. The Moderates generally hold their wallets tight, Madam President, with taxpayers' money. For us it is important to save in the barns for difficult times. But in difficult times, the state should be fitted with soft airbags to save people's lives, health, jobs and finances. Madam President, I would like It is for a large part of the proposals coming from moderate quarters that have eventually been implemented in the management of the pandemic. Initially, only tax deferrals and loans to companies would be included in the government toolbox. But then business support has been introduced in various ways. The large companies were supported first. Aid for lay-off was important for large companies, which at the beginning of the pandemic did not receive material for their factories but had to lay off thousands of people. However, it was only after tough pressure that the government gave turnover support to individual traders on 9 November 2020. Among them are many of the hardest hit, such as taxi drivers, shops, restaurants and small hotels. Madam President, I would like Through this, jobs and businesses could be saved. But like every crisis package, this hasn't been perfect. There have been criticisms during these a year and a half that aid has been too late, that the processing times have been too long and that small errors in the application have meant that the aid has not been granted. We therefore gathered a majority in the Riksdag before the summer to remedy minor errors and prevent misuse of subsidies. The fact that a new criminal report on breaches of the regulations in the short-term support came into place was also an important piece of the puzzle. All of this, Madam President, can be crucial if businesses and jobs remain after the pandemic. Therefore, many different actors have now been consulted in the Committee on Economic Affairs so that we could create a picture of how the system worked and if slow, inflexible and rigid handling created unnecessary bankruptcies and cases to the bailiff or otherwise created confusion unnecessarily. Madam President, I would like We believe that the various players have not seen any contribution to unnecessary bankruptcies or otherwise not being sufficiently service-oriented. However, we are also told that the processing times from the beginning were long and that there was actually no follow-up responsibility for the actual accuracy of the support system. That is why we have now gathered a majority in the report for a broad follow-up mission on whether the system has contributed sufficiently accurately to preventing bankruptcies. This is important not only because it is a large amount of tax revenue. We heard AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg say that SEK 400 billion of tax money went out during the pandemic – huge money. But it is also important for us to learn ahead and for all support systems to always be carefully followed up in terms of benefits and impact. Only by taking responsibility for both payments and follow-ups carefully will we take serious responsibility for Sweden.
i-BmzXvQVXEe1NX8UgvhGk9S	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for your speech. When the Moderates say that it is important to save in the barns, I think it is more in rhetoric than in practice. I was Municipal Commissioner in Åre during the financial crisis, and then welfare definitely did not get the money it needed. Our welfare workers had to run faster in retirement homes, in school and elsewhere. There was also no business support that we are discussing here today, despite the fact that everyone was courting the moderate-led government for support. Now there is turnover support, conversion aid, short-term lay-off, event support, increased state liability for sick pay costs, deferral of tax payments, tax reduction for investments, reduction of employers' and self-employed contributions for young people, temporary abolition of benefit tax on gifts to employees, temporary reduction of employers' and self-employed contributions, increased provision to the accrual fund and rental aid. There is also support for workers. When you lose your job, you shouldn't get poor, so we've raised the unemployment fund, made sure to start improving health insurance and increased pensions. What has happened during this time certainly did not happen during the financial crisis. Then, as a social democrat, one can think that it was a very good thing that the Social Democrats ruled the country during this crisis. My question to Lotta Olsson is: What will it look like in the next crisis? Will the Moderates then give priority to companies, workers and welfare, or will taxes be reduced again?
i-d869bce87c22df5e-55	Madam President, I would like I was also in local government policy in 2008 when the crisis came. The Swedish income would then fall by 30%. It was another crisis that struck the entire world's business system, and we are extremely dependent on foreign income. I'm sure there are things we could have done better there. Perhaps it is a pity that we have not followed it up more carefully. But you should also know when you open your wallet that this is not free. This is 400 billion in tax money that we will take from ordinary people, who, according to the government's wishes, will then get increased taxes. That is what you pay when you think about the car, where 60% of the cost actually goes straight into the tax office. It is also taken from wage labour for people with not so high wages. I think there's an arrogance– I don't call it a Killgissa; instead, I think it's a Social Democratic guess – when you pay out 400 billion SEK in support and don't think it's a very relevant question what the system has looked like. Why has it not been followed up properly? Or rather, why has there not been a call for follow-up? That's what you always do. That's even what you do in your own personal finances. If I do too much shopping in November, I'll have to cut back in December. No, Anna-Anna-Caren, I think it would be a little less arrogance. That's $400 billion. Had we opened our wallet like that during the financial crisis, neither you nor I know what the world would be like today. But it's easy to be hindsight.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-59	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's from hindsight that you learn. One also learns that one must listen, which did not happen, for example, when IF Metall and the industry courted the Moderates during the financial crisis about short-term lay-off aid. It's absolutely true: you can't just open your wallet without a thought. That's why we said no when the Moderates in the Chamber last summer want to add 100 billion a month– you didn't really know what, but to the companies somehow. You can't do that. It has to go to serious, honest companies with needs. Otherwise, you can actually call it a male scourge – this need might exist. When it comes to taxpayers' money, it really has to be real. My question was: Have the Moderates during the pandemic, compared with how they acted during the financial crisis, assumed that in the next crisis one must look at the whole of society? The whole of society is the people who work there, the welfare and the companies that make the wheels go around. Is there something we can expect the Moderates to learn from for the next crisis?
i-d869bce87c22df5e-62	Madam President, I would like I think we have already learned lessons. That's why we want to follow up. That is why we have pushed the government for all these reforms. The honourable Member must nevertheless be so honest, Madam President, that she sees that these proposals did not come from the Social Democracy. We have been on very hard from the opposition to get these subsidies in place. The fact that individual traders did not receive support until November 2020 is also something that needs to be looked at. These are, after all, small businessmen who are being hit extremely hard. We all work in Sweden, and for us at this level it is our task to actually be a little forward-looking and look at things with helicopter perspectives and not just defend their own party's rhetoric or so but instead humbly look at what we do, what we can do better and how we can have an open dialogue. Maybe next time there's something quite different than a pandemic coming. It probably is. Whatever we learn now, number one must be that we need to be quick, listen and develop new reforms, because it will not look the same. The financial crisis was a crisis, this was another crisis. We know that part of the problem was about the mouthguards in home care. Neither the honourable Member nor I could have foreseen that mouthguards would be the major problem. I think that this opens up a great opportunity to evaluate what has been done, who should have follow-up responsibilities and what we can learn and embrace it instead of voting it down today in the vote. I think it would be great.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-67	Madam President, I would like Now it seems that the worst time of a trial that we have rarely seen before is finally over. The pandemic has certainly been a pressure test on our society, not least for health care and care for the elderly, which has long been underpriority by the government, but also for our small businesses – especially for those who work in contact industries, as they have started to call it. For many, concerns about new restrictions are lurking in the background while at the same time trying to take steps forward to regain balance in their activities. The restrictions have been lifted, we can again gather with friends and acquaintances and go to events of various kinds. We can finally meet colleagues, classmates and customers. Thanks to good cooperation across party boundaries, we have managed to prevent the worst consequences, and this has been gratifying for our whole society. In the Finance Committee, we dealt with a historical number of additional amending budgets – I think it was 15 or 16 – and when the government showed slowness and incomprehension to our companies, we in the opposition had to lie on and steer from the back seat. A few examples of this are:
i-d869bce87c22df5e-72	In some cases, the times of proceedings have been during all criticism, and then the opposition has had to lie on, as we heard about at the shift in the line here before. When you start a business, you take a risk, and you should be aware of that. Most people are well aware of the risks involved in choosing to follow their dream and start a business. Conjunctures, external factors, currencies, political decisions, trends etc. can affect the outcome of one's results either positively or negatively. In a normal recession, it is quite natural that poorly managed businesses or poorly thought-out business ideas fail. It is part of the evolution of free enterprise. What we have been through now is no ordinary recession, Madam President. What distinguishes this precarious situation are state restrictions that are impossible to take up, especially if you are a small business. I believe that a state that has some of the absolute highest taxes in the world also has a huge responsibility to provide support when a pandemic strikes like lightning from the clear sky. Madam President, I would like According to a survey carried out by the National Association of Enterprises at the beginning of the year, about 15 per cent of small enterprises have refrained from applying for aid for fear of being liable for repayment or being in some form of distress with the state. It was 15 percent who actually had great needs, had a right to support and had a tremendous difficulty surviving this period. The reason was precisely the twitchiness and impreciseness of government policy for business. It is probably not only I who have been contacted by a large number of entrepreneurs who felt a great deal of confusion about what was going on and who also felt despair about the rules that they would wrestle through so that they could even seek support. For large companies, it was often not a direct challenge, since they have large financial departments and lawyers who can handle this type of document. But I have even heard about companies that had to outsource the entire application process to outside consultants because they have neither the ability nor the time to manage it on their own. How, then, will a small company, perhaps a hairdresser or masseur, even have a sports cap to apply for the support that was then on the table? No, the effect was not to do so, and I find that regrettable. We believe that our Swedish small businesses in this country deserve clarity, efficiency and consistency. In addition to that, reports of extremely long processing times and difficult-to-tach application processes have drudged closely. It is not okay, and I know that no one in this House thinks it is okay, but it has unfortunately been so in too many cases. Madam President, I would like Although some things could have been handled better, we have managed relatively well through this time, as I mentioned earlier. We think that is positive, of course. Yesterday we had a drawing by the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogden. The announcement was that the bankruptcies have declined in number during the pandemic, as we also heard from the Social Democrats. Of course, it is very positive, and we are all happy about it. That information was known before, but it was good to have it confirmed once more. Now, in a probable post-corona management, we are faced with new problems, not least in terms of the supply of skills, which we are looking at on the news. This is particularly true in the sectors most affected, such as the tourism industry and the contact sectors, but it will have to be the basis for another debate that we will certainly have reason to return to in the future. Having said that, we mean that the government has landed well in this bill, which means that employers who have become repayable for preliminary support in short-term work should in some cases be able to submit a new notification of reconciliation. However, we also believe that the government has a responsibility to analyse and follow up the companies that have gone bankrupt or failed due to late payments and processing times. That is perfectly reasonable, Madam President. That is only right, and I find it difficult to understand why the government parties cannot support it. The consequences for these people are enormous, and we need to take responsibility for them. Boverket said that the county boards today do not have a follow-up assignment, but they could assist in evaluating the support and could receive such an additional assignment. The Tax Agency felt that such an assignment could be evaluated. The enforcement officer believes that it can be difficult to contribute the statistics but can contribute with complementary and nuancedling through interviews, as has been done earlier with interviews on over-indebtedness and so on. Given that it is not believed that these are very many companies, at least in a broad context, we believe that it is of great importance that the government find out how many there are and also take initiatives to deal with the problems that have arisen for these entrepreneurs. It should also be able to contribute to the evaluation of the management of the pandemic and assistance during this period. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. As we heard in committee yesterday and as we also heard from the Secretary of State when he was visiting – I guess we heard the same things – the government has already put in place a review of support for short-term work, for example. The importance of the aid to mitigate the effects of the pandemic shall be assessed and assessed as to whether two parallel short-term support schemes continue to exist, whether the regulatory framework can be simplified, whether the provisions on the reimbursement of skills are properly designed, whether the rules on recovery and recovery are reviewed, whether changes are needed and strengthened in order to prevent undue payments and abuse, and whether specific penalties should be introduced as appropriate. It is also one of the announcements on which the committee agreed and which the Parliament, as well as the necessary constitutional proposals, submitted to the government. At the same time, these authorities were there, and they all told together that it was not possible to carry out an analysis at company level. The Swedish Enforcement Authority thus told us that during the pandemic fewer of the companies have ended up with the enforcement officer than in an ordinary year like 2019, and 2019 was still, said Kronofogden, the best year, the year when the smallest number of companies had ended up there.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-93	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. That's interesting. In recent years, and not least during the pandemic, I have asked Social Democratic representatives and also the Government a question in this speaker's chair. It has been symptomatic that the Social Democrats have repeatedly shown an inability and unwillingness to give priority to small businesses and businesses for the sake of business. There is a completely different approach to this issue from the Swedish Democrats. The handling of short-term aid and all the support in general has upset me time and again. This concerns processing times and the unwillingness to find out and remedy the shortcomings that have existed. As we heard in the last shift, the opposition has repeatedly had to press and lie on to get this through. Then it will be a little strange to hear the kind of rhetoric and argumentation that we hear in this line shift. Small companies account for four out of five jobs in this country. Small companies account for the largest share of tax revenue in nearly 210 of our 290 municipalities. They are a central pillar of our common welfare. That is why I believe that priority must be given to small businesses. Although, as the honourable Member says, it is assumed that there are very few companies that are in distress because of this, I believe that it is another incentive to also find out who they are and how they have ended up in distress. Then we can fix it and give them the satisfaction they deserve. My interpretation of what we heard yesterday was not at all that, as the honourable Member says, it is not possible to analyse. With the tools available today, as I also explained in my speech, there is an opportunity to analyse just now. Then it will surely be required more by the government. That is also the whole point of our initiative.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-98	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Social Democrats think that you should know what it is you decide about and want to know if it affects companies. That's why the government set up an investigation in September. The confidence the honourable Member has in the government is lovely. The collected authorities tell us that it is not possible to carry out an analysis at company level. What is called for in the announcement cannot be met by the authorities. They can do individual interviews with you or you. The enforcement authority also says that they have never experienced that there is only one reason for someone to end up there, but there are usually several. So it is nice to have the enormous confidence in the Social Democratic-led government, which is simply going to call and interview; I do not know how the honourable Member intends it. Of course we should know if it happens and what we can do about it. In our legal society, you can claim damages if you are in distress because a government authority has dealt with errors. We can see at macro level – that was what the authorities talked about – that the companies in Sweden are fortunately thanks to all these subsidies, that we had saved in the barns and that we have decided on the extra amending budget after the extra amending budget, have gone better during this crisis. We have avoided mass unemployment because companies do not make it. They're not with the bailiff either. How does the honourable Member think that what is said in the announcement should be achieved anyway? But I do of course like to have such confidence in the government.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-102	Madam President, I would like I don't know if there was any thought here. Of course, I am not saying that the government should sit and call all companies in Sweden, but that is how I heard the honourable Member's comment. Just as the royal court itself said yesterday, it is difficult to contribute the statistics, but you can contribute with supplementary and with nuancement through interviews, as has been done in the past on a number of occasions. Of course, government representatives should not sit around calling. Again, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg mentioned in the previous line that it is already in the mission to analyse and produce a survey. Fine! Then it is in line with exactly what we want in this case. But we want to do it to see which companies are in distress for reasons related to government restrictions. That's perfectly reasonable. It is logical that the companies that have ended up there should be given the opportunity to get the help they deserve after such a situation that we have just gone through. I can honestly say that I think the government has handled a lot of this very well. I have absolutely some faith in what the government has done during the pandemic. Through cross-party cooperation, we have been able to achieve amazing things during this period. I think each and every one of us should be proud of that. When we talk about these things, however, it becomes very strange. I find it very difficult to understand why the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party cannot just say: of course we should do this. We'll analyse it to find out what's behind it and how it's been done. That's great. We do a post-corona handling and can add it to the documentation with the other evaluation to be done. That's how I see it.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-106	Madam President, I would like Barely a year ago, I met a couple in Nordmaling Municipality in Västerbotten who own Levar Hotel, where they also run a restaurant. They are one of many employers around Sweden who have been delayed with the reconciliation. In their case, it was about a week, which resulted in them having to pay back all the support they had received to simply keep their staff. It is clear that there is a problem that the money was paid out before and that they then paid the wages to their employees but that they are told long afterwards that because of that week's delay they have to pay back all the money that they do not have. It put them in enormous distress, just like for many other companies around Sweden. We are now trying to do something about that. We pushed for it earlier. But nothing happened. This spring, however, a committee initiative was sometimes taken on this issue. It was not because Magdalena Andersson had saved the barns. That's not an argument. She's done a good job in a lot of things. However, this was the initiative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, namely that we cannot accept that aid that has been paid out must go back because of minor misdemeanours. I've been contacted by companies that even due to a day's delay in reconciliation have had to send the money back. It's unbelievable. We can't have that. It would have been one thing if you had paid a small penalty payment for the delay. That's what happens when we pay bills. If you're late, you may have to pay a late fee, but it's not here. We must realise that this has been a huge problem. However, thanks to the fact that many parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs pushed the matter hard, they then got the whole committee with them. Let us be honest about this. I am in favour of the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal in the report, as well as the committee's initiative, which is about looking at the issue of the companies that have ended up with the bailiff without fault. You may have ended up there for various reasons, for example because you have had to pay back support that you have been entitled to but have been late. There are different reasons. Of course, people end up with the bailiff for various reasons. But we need to look at and analyze if anyone ends up there with no fault of their own. Someone said it's not about a lot of people. For me, however, it is important that the person or persons concerned, whether it is one or a hundred, should have the right to have their case tried if they have ended up there without fault of their own. How can you reason otherwise? I also find it very strange for the Social Democrats to say that if we put forward a committee initiative outside the bill, that is fine. But if we put it in the bill, it's not okay. It can't matter, can it? Either it's important, or it's not important. When we had the authorities with us yesterday, they said that it was not at all impossible to control. On the contrary, there was a possibility. I cannot therefore understand for my life that it should be such a big problem to add this part to the bill. I would like an explanation of this.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-115	Madam President, I would like A committee initiative in the spring from, among others, us Christian Democrats and several other parties resulted in the Riksdag proposing three announcements to the government. It was about further shortening the processing times for short-term support. We saw the problem which was then acute. Companies after companies had to wait unhemult long for support. We also said that there should be a review of the possibility of introducing specific penalties for short-term support and that the government should urgently examine how proportionality in reconciliations and recovery of provisional aid could be increased. It was good that we got it through in Parliament. This was done after sharp criticism and a cry for help from entrepreneurs who were in a system that was absolutely not optimal for all entrepreneurs. We know that companies in particularly close-to-contact industries were in a particularly vulnerable situation. The Riksdag has now taken note of the proposals and legislative changes submitted by the Government to the Riksdag in the bill to try to solve a problem that many companies have been exposed to. Madam President, I would like I and a lot of people with me have heard stories from entrepreneurs saying that if they don't get the money soon, it will go bankrupt. Another dilemma is that if you do not comply with certain rules, you have not been able to apply for extended aid. The undertaking shall not be in default, under resolution or under an obligation to draw up a balance sheet. In addition, it may not have tax or fee debts or debts for the recovery of short-term aid submitted to the Kronofogden. The government's proposal, which we are dealing with here today, we Christian Democrats think is good, and that is a step in the right direction. In particular, employers who have become liable for the repayment of provisional support in the case of short-term work may, in certain cases, submit a new notification for the reconciliation of this aid. Madam President, I would like The committee also proposes an announcement in this report because we believe that we should also analyse how many companies have ended up with the bailiff because of, for example, late payments or recovery claims. When we in the committee have listened to various authorities, such as the Swedish Tax Agency and the Kronofogdet, in the preparation of the matter, it has clearly shown that no one has been given any mandate to review or analyse in depth how many companies may have ended up with the bailiff without fault. It is also not known what the consequences could be for companies which for some reason have been in the roll of the bailiff, but which have then received the late payment and thus been able to make themselves free of debt. These are lessons that we are interested in so that we can move on and know how to do next time when there is a crisis. For there will be more crises, but then the policy must be ready so that this can be dealt with more quickly in a much better way. I do not think we in committee have been narrow in our announcement. We want the government to carry out this analysis and, if necessary, take the initiative to deal with the errors caused by late or missing payments. Madam President, I would like I have said many times in this House that without companies we have no welfare. However, this cannot be stressed enough. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-d869bce87c22df5e-125	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on the possibility of a new notification on the reconciliation of short-term assistance and a new procedure for late notification of reconciliation. Actually, this is not strange. The whole committee agrees on this. It has been an important support during the pandemic to save Swedish jobs and companies. The support has also enabled Sweden to recover more quickly. As far as we are concerned, we agree. However, during the journey we and the Moderates have noted that the support has been made more difficult or completely withheld if the company has ended up with the enforcement officer. The committee fully agrees that tax money should not be paid to companies trying to cheat the system. It's not that strange. The problem is that there are companies that have ended up with the bailiff without fault of their own, that is, they have ended up with the bailiff by promising support due to the corona virus delayed or absent due to our authorities. These may be companies that would otherwise have been solid, but because of the meekness of the authorities, have fallen into an economic trap. It's not fair. That's not how the state should work. When we have asked the expert authorities, they have not been able to answer how many companies have ended up in this situation. However, they have found that this may have happened and that it has happened. It is true that the number of bankruptcies has decreased, but that is not really the case, because we want the facts on the table. If the state has put companies in a bad situation, the state must also take responsibility, whether it is a company or a thousand. But here, Madam President, there is a big difference in the committee. In fact, I thought we would be in complete agreement that the government should analyse and, if necessary, take initiatives. For this reason, a majority in the committee would like to address an announcement to the government. But please note, Madam President, that it is only a majority, not the whole committee. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party do not see any need for this at all. Instead of the facts on the table, you would rather killgissa, if I may use the same words as the Vice-Chairman of the Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg committee did. At the same time, I am not particularly surprised either. They have never understood the situation of companies or, for that matter, their important role in society. Here they also show it to open curtains. For us liberals, however, it is quite clear: without companies Sweden stops. It is the companies that are the job creators. It is by having the courage to hire that we get the tax revenue that finances our welfare. High ambitions with welfare are based on people working and our companies growing. In addition to increased tax revenues, growing companies mean new life opportunities for individuals and reduced exclusion. Madam President, I would like We need to take responsibility for the role of the state in this pandemic, but also draw up the rules of the game and state what responsibility the state has in future crises, because they will come. In so doing, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
