i-55518beec79bda17-5	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Finance No. 2 7 on improved support for companies in view of the consequences of the coronapndemine. I am pleased that it is a united committee that is today proposing an announcement to the government. This reflects the fact that we want the same thing, namely to improve support for the fundamentally viable companies affected by the pandemic – not least companies in close-to-contact industries. The Coronapandemia has hit the whole community hard. I think first of all about everyone who has suffered the disease – anyone who has lost a friend, a grandmother or someone else in their vicinity. I'm thinking about everyone who's been sick themselves. I know it is sad for all of us, not least now that summer is on the doorstep with all the nice activities that usually take place in May and June, but we must continue to hold on and endure until the last. Keep your distance! Work from home if you can! Together we must continue, because we know it still saves lives. The pandemic has not just been a health crisis. Last year, the world economy experienced its worst fall since World War II. I think there are several of us who remember how uncertain the situation was last March. Many industries and companies saw their revenues decline from one day to another. What would politics do? How deep would the crisis be? Above all, many asked themselves the question: Will I be able to keep my job, and what if I can't? Mr President, I would like to In March last year, the government presented its first amending budget on the occasion of the coronapendem, and this has continued. In total, we in this House have debated 18 amending budgets in addition to our budget and the autumn budget. In total, we are dealing with crisis measures of over SEK 400 billion. It's actually historic. Thanks to a responsible policy, we were able to enter this crisis with 100 000 more employees in welfare and very strong public finances. Our common economic strength has been used to save lives, jobs and welfare. We've put a lot of resources into medical care so that money won't stand in the way of fighting the virus. We have introduced compensation for groups at risk, a temporary withdrawal of the carer's day and a lifting of the requirement for medical certificates to make it easier for people to stay at home. But we have also developed crisis measures to safeguard jobs and businesses, and we have raised the unemployment fund for those who, after all, have lost their jobs during this crisis. After all, the Coronapandemia hit very quickly, and we all did the analysis that it was important to get support for jobs and companies on the ground quickly – more important than everything being 100% right from the start. Many of the business subsidies were not available at all before the coronapandemia, and processes that usually take several years have been shortened to months and weeks for the support to be quickly put in place. The aid has also made a big difference. Never before have Swedish taxpayers saved so many jobs in the private sector. Just last week, the Council of Finance Ministers stated that the Riksdag and the Government have generally done a good job of quickly getting effective support measures to tackle the economic crisis. But not all the support has been perfect. They have also needed to be adjusted gradually. The adjustments are criticised by the Council of Finance Ministers for making it more difficult for companies to understand the systems. But politically, we have agreed to try to adjust the systems so that they will be as fair for companies as possible. In the Committee on Finance, the parties have taken decisions both to reduce the interest on deferred payments and that companies should not be able to receive support for short-term work while at the same time making dividends. Mr President, I would like to Today, then, we are proposing an announcement to the government to improve aid to crisis-sponsored companies. For example, it could be a question of reviewing whether wage costs can be covered by the definition of fixed costs under the EU State aid rules or whether it is possible to extend the definition of the cover premium so that more costs are taken into account when calculating eligibility for aid. At the same time, when the government is going to do this, it is important that any changes do not lead to entrepreneurs having to wait a lot longer for support. I know that many entrepreneurs were surprised and angry when the basis for the conversion aid was changed to be based on the cover premium. This change was due to the fact that the EU does not want to approve state aid that could go to profit-making companies. These new messages from the European Commission have been favourable to some companies but have affected others who are expected to receive support. In addition, long processing times have created frustration for and affected many entrepreneurs, while we know that many government officials have done their utmost to get systems for prompt and correct on-the-spot handling as quickly as possible. The Government has worked continuously to review the support and shorten processing times by increasing resources and redistributing staff. Now we are also seeing shorter processing times, and I am pleased that emergency aid is coming out to those who need it. Mr President, I would like to The aid must be paid out quickly. But it is not always as simple as the opposition makes it sound. We know that the majority of those seeking support are serious and honest entrepreneurs. But we also know that systems of lack of control where there is a lot of money to be collected for those who are prepared to cheat easily attract both fortune seekers and organised crime. For us Social Democrats, it is important that taxpayers' money goes to the right things and does not end up in the wrong pockets. Moreover, it simply takes longer to actually do and implement things than to say that they should be done. Mr President, I would like to The economic situation is still serious, but we are now seeing the light in the tunnel. Last week we received reports that Sweden is now among the best at vaccinating in the EU. I'm glad. More and more of us are now finally hugging a long-awaited grandfather, grandmother, or friend. I hope to get my first dose of vaccine by the end of this week. Not only do we get the opportunity to see loved ones again thanks to the vaccine. The vaccine is also the way out of the economic crisis, for each dose is also an injection into the economy – one dose for more jobs. But as I said, the crisis is not over. We keep holding on and holding out for each other, because we know it saves lives. But soon I hope that we can return to somewhat more normal circumstances. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-55518beec79bda17-26	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. It is not always I agree with Stefan Löfven, and it is not always I do exactly as he says. But during this crisis, the Prime Minister has often said: Hold on, hold on, keep your distance! And many of us have. We Moderates have also taken that by holding on to and persevering in the Committee on Finance, for the simple reason that we have seen that during this crisis there are so many companies and employees who have been hit hard and have not really received the help and support they need – hence this debate and the decision we are about to take today. Because even though the economy is doing quite well in many ways now – many companies are doing well, and exporting companies are experiencing strong global demand – many companies, especially in the service sector and services sector, are having a very tough time. If you walked on the spare wheels last spring you went on the rims last autumn, and now you are soon down on the ground, simply. Mr President, I would like to I am very humbled by the fact that it can be difficult to orient oneself in a crisis. None of us in March last year knew what was coming. I think that the parliament and government in March and April last year managed to get the important crisis support in place with a very good pace and cooperation. In fact, I think that Swedish politics appeared from its very best side. But after a few months something happened, Mr President. Although the pandemic continued and very many companies experienced a tough situation, it was as if the government did not understand that everything was not working properly. One example is that last June the Moderates and the other opposition brought together the entire Riksdag, which decided that support would also reach individual traders. In particular, many women who run an individual firm in the service sector were unable to receive support. Wage - working entrepreneurs, who had mortgaged houses and homes, faced a tough situation. There, the Riksdag took responsibility when the government did not do the job. Summer came, and many of the ministers went on vacation in the midst of the crisis. When we came back, it seemed that the government and also the support parties had thought: now comes the turnaround. One saw no second wave and did not prepare for it even though it should have been a relevant scenario. So once the second wave struck and the restrictions tightened again and many companies got it tough had not worked with the support that existed. They had not been adjusted, improved or made more accurate. Once again, the parliament had to do the job, and the opposition here in Parliament has taken a great responsibility for this. It is particularly in three areas that we see that things are not working properly. The first is, as the President also mentioned, the length of the proceedings. It is not reasonable for a small entrepreneur who has been promised support to have to wait six, seven or eight months even to have his application tested – in the midst of a pandemic. The second problem, also mentioned earlier, is cheating and fraud. We know that there are companies that use particularly short-term lay-off aid in a completely wrong way and are trying to grab taxpayers' money – in the midst of a pandemic. The third problem, Mr President, is that aid is still not accurate enough. They have not been adapted this year to the situation of many small businesses in particular. The Moderates have put forward proposals to address these three problems. We have been waiting for the government for month after month, but when you do nothing, we take matters into our own hands and make proposals. That's exactly why we're here now. Let me just say the obvious thing about cheating and fraud. It would have been as easy for the government and the January parties to include a penalty clause in the law on lay-off aid, as they did for the conversion aid, so that one could not cheat in this way. And people who do it could be judged. Having said that, that is not why we are here today. Today we are going to decide to improve the conversion aid to the most affected. Why, then, is this needed? For those of you who listen to this debate, it may be technical and a little complicated. I'll explain it very easily. A large part of the service industry cannot use short-term lay-off support. You cannot send your staff home in the service sector. Take a small restaurant, for example. You can't short-term leave the maybe only cook you have because it's going a little rough; then you have to close the restaurant. If the restaurant is to be open, the chef must remain. Therefore, it is not possible to use the lay-off aid. This can be done in industry or in companies with many officials working eight to five. We therefore believe that it is perfectly reasonable that we should now improve this support so that we can actually benefit from it. For example, with regard to conversion aid, wage costs could be taken into account. Then these companies can survive. Why is this so important? Because we have to hold on to the toughest companies. They are the ones who will be helped by this proposal. This is therefore at the heart of the need to redeploy conversion aid in order to function better as crisis aid. Mr President, I would like to During the crisis, since March last year, I have been talking to a great many entrepreneurs and employees, from north to south and both large and small. In the last few months, really since the day before Christmas Eve, I have spoken specifically to some to arrive at this particular decision, which I had hoped the government would produce. I would like to thank Taylor Taylor and Niklas Ahlbom in particular right now. We have had many talks to see how this could be done in the best possible way and be a reasonable proposal. I would also like to thank the initiator of the Kastroll uprising, P.G. Nilsson, who has been scrambling with pots to make sure that we see a nutrition that is having a tough time. I would also like to thank both Visita and the Entrepreneurs, who came to the committee and gave their views on the proposal so that we could adjust it so that it would be as good as possible. I hope, Mr President, that the tourism industry and the service sector will be able to flourish this summer so that there will be no need for support. And I hope that the vaccination will now roll out and that it will work so that the virus simply does not take new paths. Let's hope so! But what I've learned from this crisis is that you should hope for the best but plan for the worst. That is precisely why we are going to decide on this emergency aid today. Because if the pandemic continues and some restrictions are needed, these companies and employees must know that we are not abandoning them, but are doing exactly as we have said: we are holding on and holding on. Finally, Mr President, when we are here today at Parliament's premises, the pandemic is taking place at the same time. It's not over. Right here, right now, people are fighting for their lives. Others feel very bad and lack loved ones that you have lost. The medical staff are exhausted. They save lives, they care, and they help. For all their sakes, we must keep holding on, holding out and keeping our distance. In addition, we need to vaccinate ourselves when we have the opportunity to fight this virus, which has been a real misery, together.
i-55518beec79bda17-48	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. After a long period of pandemic, it is a special feeling to look in the rearview mirror and see the turbulent time we have lived in. It has been a time of very much change for a lot of people – for those of us who sit in parliament but also for our entrepreneurs, who have had to change and do everything in their power to try to survive a tough time. As my colleagues have previously mentioned, it has been a time when aid packages have been launched. Most have been good, and they first came out very quickly. Some things have been less good. There the opposition has had to work and stand on its toes to simply correct and ensure that the support that is being launched will reach the right target group. We Swedish democrats have put forward a couple of initiatives in the Committee on Finance to deal with some of these things. One example is individual entrepreneurs who were affected in the spring and then in the autumn, during the second wave, could not take part in the support because they had gone to unemployment benefit during the spring. It hit individual companies hard. We put forward an initiative on this which later became a reality, for which we are grateful. We also have the reference month for short-term lay-off. There it was a limited company that laid off its staff during the spring and later had to give notice. When new staff were then hired during the summer and the second wave struck, it was not possible to use the aid because it had to change the reference month. We saw that as very problematic. What we have gathered to discuss here today is the change in conversion aid, which has, to some extent, meant an improvement in aid, but there are also a lot of companies that have been affected by the change. I had the parliamentary investigation service find out how many companies have actually been affected. It turned out that there were about 4 000 companies. There are about the same number of people who have actually benefited from the new rules, which in itself is positive. However, the problem with all that we are discussing here today is the communication from the government when it was going to launch what I choose to call the new conversion aid. When the parameters of the conversion aid are changed, it is no longer an extension of the aid but a change in it. Companies that did everything right during the spring and summer – they cut their costs and did everything you should to make the business survive – were then unable to take part in the support because of the new parameter. Companies panicked to hear from me after the Commission came up with the new change on 16 February. Ministers Magdalena Andersson and Per Bolund went out in a press conference on 25 January calling on companies that had a difficult situation with cash resources to take out loans to make it through. Some of these companies took out loans, just as the ministers had asked them to. But when the extension of aid was launched, it turned out that these companies could not take part in the aid, which was a huge problem. I learned that on 27 January the Ministry called a number of member organisations to a meeting where these changes were just announced. The member organisations asked for an impact assessment on what this would mean for the companies affected. The government did not want to do such a thing, and two days later promises were made in a press conference. This means that the government actually knew that it would hit companies. There were 4,000 companies, and some of them were in debt and with broken promises from the government. That is what led me to react and also initially to put forward an initiative in the Committee on Finance to tackle the problems. To underline what I mean, I have produced a few quotes from the press conference that was held. The Government of Per Bolund said: We announce that we are extending the conversion aid. He also says: There is security in knowing that the money will come out. It also allows companies, if they have acute liquid problems, to go to the bank and borrow money and to be sure that money will come out later. And Magdalena Andersson said: The message is clear – hold on, hold on, money and salvation are coming. After talking to these entrepreneurs, who in turn contacted lawyers, the law means – I'm not a lawyer myself, so I don't know – that this is classing as fraudulent behaviour. If I had done exactly the same thing to another party as an entrepreneur, I would have been charged with it. In this case, you've gone out and made promises that you haven't kept. I think that is a major problem. For us in the Swedish Democrats, it may be less important who takes credit for the proposals that actually gain a hearing in committee. In Swedish politics, the messenger is often more important than the message. However, the important thing, as I said, is that the companies affected by the change are now receiving the support to which they are entitled. I am therefore pleased that we have found a common position in this committee proposal so that we can actually start working on this in practice.
i-55518beec79bda17-65	Mr President, I would like to It is clear how the Members of this debate are really doing their utmost to achieve some sort of disagreement when we are therefore debating a report in which we are in complete agreement. For my part, I would like to take this on board. All eight parties in the Committee on Finance, from left to right, come together and say that if possible, aid needs to be improved and strengthened in order to save as many jobs and businesses as possible. This is hopefully one of the last steps in a rather long journey of combating the coronapandemine and its economic consequences. As previous speakers have said, there was a great deal of activity in the parliament and government to quickly get the support in place. The key words were initially: Better okay and fast than perfect and much later. During the spring, it was also feverish activity by the relevant authorities to get money into the system, secure jobs and companies and create a calm in a Swedish economy that was in some places panicking for a few days and weeks. The first job last spring was quite successful, I think. There are always things you see afterwards that you would have done better, but it was a proper activity, and many problems were solved along the way. It is also clear that during the summer and autumn, one was lulled into another calm, a deceptive calm in the political process and the political work that was in no way matched by a calm in the Swedish economy. A lot of companies worked hard to survive. At the same time, what had gone quickly in the spring took longer. The processes went on and on, and it was not the same pace of payments. That is something that we in this House – in all parties, but perhaps especially in some who are more entrepreneurial – reacted to and said: This is not how it should be done! The Parliament has now, in a number of steps, pushed the government ahead of it and said that we must deliver better. Support systems need to be more accurate and stronger, and they need to be extended and strengthened, as has now happened in a number of steps. What we are deciding today is that, if possible, aid for conversion should be strengthened by adding more costs to what counts as fixed costs and simply creating a stronger and more straightforward system for those companies, not least in the service sector, which have not really felt at home in recent changes. Now we have good hope that this will also be approved by the European Commission and that a stronger and more accurate system can be in place until the various support from the coronapandemine can be phased out, as we are running with the vaccinations and can get a far wider parenthesis at this tough stage in Swedish society and the Swedish economy. In parallel with the fact that we have discussed these issues and have now come to a decision, it has also been stated that these aids – i.e. conversion aid, short-term lay-offs and much more – will be extended until at least 30 September. I think that's a good news. This means that those industries that still have it very tough and are worried about what summer and autumn will mean can enter this period knowing that the support systems will be in place at least long into the autumn. It has far from always been the case that these messages have been given with this kind of foresight. I'm glad we've been able to land there. The various support schemes we are now discussing are conversion aid, turnover aid for individuals, short-term lay-off and many others. They will all be extended until the end of September. It is a good news to have when planning for summer and autumn. Mr President, I would like to The hope is, of course, that we are now in one of the last chapters of this crisis response, but it is by no means self-evident that this is the case. Someone told me earlier that he wasn't a lawyer. I'm not a virologist or a pathologist. But I as a hobby virologist can go around and think about what would happen if there were new types of mutations and so on. After all, there are obvious risk factors for which we must be able to take heights. And in such a scenario, it's about being prepared to do additional things, extend the support further and constantly follow developments in order to be able to best protect jobs, businesses and other things we want more of in society. Then it is worth noting that, despite a year of acute crisis policy, Sweden is very strong in terms of the level of public debt and in terms of the strength of public finances. So we have the muscles to act if the crisis were to be even more lengthy than we might hope and believe. I think we should feel that security when we make further decisions. Today, therefore, it is a question of strengthening aid for conversion. In the past, it has been announced that it will be extended. Crisis policy continues. We hope that this is one of the last things we do in the emergency response, but Sweden has muscles to act if necessary.
i-55518beec79bda17-79	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Westlund reminded me of how many times the Riksdag debated these issues, but I had lost track of how many times we discussed amending budgets and commissions to the government to return with additional corona support or make changes to existing ones. As far as some of these aids are concerned, there have been initiatives by the Left Party. This applies, for example, to turnover aid, unemployment funds for individual traders, bans on dividends and so on. We have produced many proposals together with other parties. The committee has had and has good cooperation. But the Left Party has also pushed for improvements for employees and not just for companies. It is the companies and jobs we save through the support we decide on. Jobs must be the focus when we decide on support. The mass unemployment that we are seeing in Sweden today must be reversed, and many measures are needed for that. Among other things, we must once again introduce an employment service that operates in our municipalities, not least in municipalities where unemployment is high. It is a disgrace for Sweden that we have the unemployment we have. This requires far greater efforts than the government has so far taken. But while we are working to save jobs and save businesses, the second is to exploit the system. These are the votes of people who worked in companies who cheated on lay-off support: We have worked as usual but we have posted two books, one for the Swedish Agency for Growth and one for how we have worked. This is a fraud without its like and the Swedish Agency for Growth must investigate it. ..................................................... The managers urged us to show our feet and work as usual to have a chance to be re-employed. We ran on as usual, but time-reported like we've been working for three hours. ..................................................... In February there had been 1 700 complaints to the Swedish Agency for Growth about cheating with corona support, mainly lay-off aid. 240 companies had been notified at the same time for fraud involving conversion aid. The Swedish Financial Crime Agency is currently examining about 100 companies for financial crimes linked to pandemic support. When companies cheat with state aid, it affects the employees, us taxpayers who contribute to the aid and not least the honest and struggling entrepreneurs. When others cheat, the audits become more frequent and more information needs to be provided to the person paying the aid. Honorable entrepreneurs have to wait longer, and some give up. In this report, we point out that the government must take into account the importance of rapid payment of aid precisely because honest entrepreneurs are being squeezed. However, it does not work if the aid is paid too quickly and the review must take place afterwards. I have sympathy for the ambition that this could work, but unfortunately it only benefits economic crime and makes it easier to get over Corona subsidies dishonestly. Unfair entrepreneurs will not pay back. We've already seen that. It is sad but true that a few dishonest people destroy too many entrepreneurs and damage our trust. Pensioners, teachers, cashiers, nurses and bus drivers do not pay taxes to support fraud with the subsidy. They expect their tax revenue to be well spent. Companies that do not cheat but use the rules to their advantage are those that received support last year and are making dividends this year. Volvo's management received SEK 118 million in bonuses while the company received SEK 1.2 billion in state crisis support in 2020. The dividend this year is estimated to land somewhere between 20 and 30 billion. Sandvik received lay-off support in 2020 and pays dividends in 2021. The CEO of Scandic has worked so hard to lay off the employees now that the chain has hardly had any guests that he needed a 30% raise to compensate for the reduced bonus. During the pandemic, gaps have increased. The stock market has risen while unemployment has shrunk. While some barely make everyday life come together, others enrich themselves on the corona support and pandemic. The care company Attendo has been criticised for not keeping apart healthy and covidsick residents and has lied about it to relatives. Employees who have testified to the misdemeanours have been subjected to reprisals. The management, on the other hand, has received million bonuses despite state aid. Many companies have, as I said, taken the opportunity to use the coronapandemin and state aid. Other entrepreneurs work hard to survive. It is therefore important to take measures to improve support for companies affected by the consequences of the pandemic, as we do with this report. At the same time, however, it is important that we close the possibility for companies to receive support and pay out bonuses and pay dividends. It is a mystery to me that all parties think it is okay with the dividends and bonuses that have been made and given by Attendo, Volvo, Sandvik and others and that they have said no to the Left Party's proposal for tougher rules. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report so that we can support more companies and save more jobs.
i-55518beec79bda17-94	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I am pleased that this will be in place, even if it is at the eleventh hour. For a long time, we have seen that support for employees and companies has worked differently during the pandemic, depending on the sector and the context in which they work or operate companies. We've known about this for a long time. Several have pointed this out. I have been pointing out for over a year how employees in certain sectors have not had the same support and opportunities to retain their jobs as employees in other sectors. A little bit it has been as if the further away from traditional manufacturing industries and the smaller the companies they have been, the less adapted and less functioning the support measures have also been during the pandemic. Then it is the service sector companies that have suffered the most and most prolonged during the pandemic that have also suffered the most appropriate aid. Today's report does something about this. It points out the need to better respond to the needs of these companies and to ensure that labour costs can be more closely covered by the conversion aid. This is very good and important. Mr President, I would like to Employees in these sectors have had less support. I have talked many times about how lay-off aid has not covered the temporary staff. Rather, it has been the case that the rules on lay-off aid have actually driven temporary workers into unemployment, as there has been a requirement for temporary staff to be dismissed in order for the company to benefit from the state lay-off aid. It is not only I who say this, but this has also been pointed out by the Council of Finance Ministers, who states that the government's policy of supporting short-term work has not, in principle, covered temporary workers. In its assessment of fiscal policy, the Council notes that the proportion of fixed-term employees in the hotel and restaurant sector exceeded 40 per cent in March 2020. The corresponding figure in manufacturing was less than 10 per cent. This difference is likely to have meant that people in the hotel and restaurant sector have lost their jobs to a greater extent. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to One can of course question why there should be so many fixed-term jobs in the restaurant industry. But in a crisis, the people have the jobs they have, and then these people have been particularly vulnerable because crisis support has not been there for them in the same way as it has been for other employees. Even for companies in these sectors, aid has been less effective. There has been an unreasonable discrepancy between those who have been partially shut down and completely shut down. If they were to be completely shut down, they would have received a very large amount of crisis support, but because they are only partially shut down based on alcohol rules, rules on table service, the size of the parties, opening hours and so on, they have not enjoyed the greater support. This difference has been too great. Moreover, as previous speakers have pointed out, lay-off aid cannot be used for sectors and activities which, after all, are trying to keep their activities going. On the one hand, you get higher hourly costs per hour worked as staff is left, and on the other hand you need to have a certain staffing to keep the business open. This has led to major problems for these companies. We in the Christian Democrats have tried on a number of occasions to highlight various solutions to reduce the labour costs of these companies through the crisis in the form of improved lay-off support, but also through reduced social security contributions for the contact industries. It has not been heard, but I am glad that this proposal, which comes from the Moderates, has been heard. Thank you for bringing this initiative to the Committee on Finance! We Christian Democrats, of course, quickly joined with it because it aims at the same problem, namely to have a greater share of the labour costs of companies covered within the framework of conversion aid. I would also like to say that these problems have been known for a long time and have been mentioned by parties in this House many times. The problems were also addressed by public authorities as early as March 2020. Since then, the Swedish Agency for Growth has found that the aid has been far more adapted for the manufacturing industry than it has been for restaurants, hotels, passenger transport and so on, but despite this, the government has not acted. It is therefore a good thing that Parliament is now doing this and that the parties are broadly and unitedly telling us that these subsidies are not working well enough and therefore need to be changed. It is good for all the entrepreneurs who are struggling and working hard, who have been doing it for a long time and who each morning have been thinking about whether they will be able to keep this going for another day. I would also like to thank all those who have heard from me and pointed out the problems with these subsidies – especially thanks to Malte Rohlin on Welfare in Malmö and many others who have pointed out just the trouble of making ends meet when the support is not adapted to the reality of the companies. Mr President, I would like to We'll hold on, we'll hold on and we'll get through this crisis as well as we can. Some have done worse than others due to the pandemic but also depending on how the support has been designed. But now we are calling for changes to be made in support so that they are better adapted. It increases the chances of being able to endure for these companies and to survive and continue to contribute with jobs, with tax crowns to the welfare and with everything that makes life a little easier for the rest of us.
i-55518beec79bda17-107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a very important amending budget that we now have on Parliament's table. It is about further support to ensure that as many people as possible in Sweden have a job to go to and to ensure that the smaller companies can continue and should not have to go bankrupt. For many people in the labour market and for many of our smaller entrepreneurs, the pandemic has meant that it has been brutally tough. It is brutally tough when people can no longer go to a restaurant in the same way. Of course, when people can no longer live as usual, some industries are severely affected by such restrictions. Mr President, I would like to Much of what policy has done has been quick, powerful and has had a very clear effect. In Sweden, we have experience and a tradition of knowing from the beginning about how the Swedish industry works and what kind of political reforms are required during a crisis in order for the industry to survive. What is new about this crisis is that, economically speaking, it does not land primarily in industry, but in industries such as retail, restaurant, hotel, taxi business and so on, which are not normally in the epicentre of the economic crisis but which, in this crisis, are really what we are focusing on. Of course it poses new questions to politics. Not only can we dust off the measures or reforms that existed during the financial crisis and apply them during this crisis, but we need to develop, analyse and develop new proposals that meet these particular companies and industries during the crisis. If the aim is for as many people as possible to have a job to go to, we must also see the power of the services sector. We must see the strength of the fact that the economy today is connected in a completely different way than it did in the past. Service companies and industrial companies are interdependent, and the service industry is therefore a very important part, not least in terms of what our city centres look like. Not least, smaller companies are often also a stepping stone to the labour market for those who find it difficult to get into the labour market. It is therefore important for jobs that the smaller companies also receive the support they need. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have not been satisfied with how the various support schemes have worked in practice. It has taken too long to get the money to the companies to secure the jobs. There has been too much administrative and bureaucratic hassle that has stood in the way of hardworking people who have been paying taxes for many years, who have never had a sick day and who expect society now to support them and be there. Then the community isn't there. It has gone too slowly, there has been too much bureaucracy and it has been too administratively complicated – and that has not been good enough. That is why I am pleased today that in this part of the House we can gather together to improve aid, to ensure that it will hopefully be quicker to get the money out and that it will make it easier for those who find it difficult to make use of lay-off aid, but are dependent on this type of aid. It is a strength of Swedish politics that we can present this proposal in broad political agreement at Parliament's table, i.e. that we can jointly take responsibility for and improve the proposal so that the money comes out to as many people as possible. Thus, as many people as possible can have a job to go to. That must be the overall political objective. I support the proposal in the report.
i-55518beec79bda17-116	Mr President, I would like to The longer the crisis continues, the more severe the restrictions that affect companies, employees, businesses and organisations throughout our country, the more clearly it becomes how complex and difficult it is to design right-handed aid. It has been difficult to grasp the scale of the crisis while it has developed, and it has been more or less impossible to see all layers of consequences that the various restrictions have in society. I feel a great pride in how our society has reacted to the crisis. It is clear that we have been equipped financially and have been able to roll out large subsidies. Authorities have acted extremely quickly, redeployed activities and done their best to obtain support for businesses. At the same time, it is quite right and understandable that many companies are frustrated that it has not worked for them in particular when they have had to wait for support, when they have ended up in grey areas between regulations and come under pressure. Those stories are true and true, and we will listen to them and do everything we can to make adjustments. Then there are extremely sad things, for example, to be reconciled with Brussels. Support shall operate under EU State aid rules. The EU has not fully met the promises that have been made about flexibility and speed of delivery. We had high expectations that that work would run simpler and faster during the crisis, but I am absolutely sure that, even there, many have worked extremely hard to provide answers. I can imagine that the saddest thing for an entrepreneur who is struggling with the economy and lying awake at night is to hear politicians bring up EU state aid rules. Sounds like an escape. Nevertheless, the EU's state aid rules are a reality, and we have had to adapt some of the aid to that framework. It has been a dynamic between the government and parliament that I perceive in large parts has been good and healthy. We've worked together to figure out what's best. In retrospect, we can say that if we had known everything we know now, we would have designed the subsidies differently. They'd been there before. But it's easy to say afterwards. Now the Riksdag has again gathered in the Finance Committee behind a clear announcement with proposals on how to improve support. Although this morning there was good news of declining infection, which gives hope for reduced restrictions and a society where we can live freely and normally again, we must, of course, also have the negative scenario clear to us and plan for a risk, which we hope is small, of restrictions even in the future. That is why the initiative is wise, and if we can improve aid at this stage, we will of course do so. The work must be characterised by pragmatism and responsiveness even in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-55518beec79bda17-127	Mr President, I would like to Mom's screams, blood, and hard-cores should never have to be childhood memories. Every child has the right to a safe upbringing. But there are 2 million children in Sweden, and about 10 percent of them have witnessed violence in close relationship. Many people suffer, children as adults, from the traces that violence has left with them. It is therefore high time that we now made children victims of crime in such situations. Today we are going to vote on introducing a new crime into the Swedish law book, namely child peace crimes – the children who witness violence in close relationship. In addition to the offences themselves, a person who exposes a loved one to sexual offences or other violence shall also be able to be convicted of the harm inflicted on the child by the offender. The sentence is proposed to be imprisonment for a maximum of two years, but in the serious cases the maximum sentence shall be four years. As elected representatives, we have a duty to give a voice to those who cannot speak for themselves. We have a duty to ensure that all people in our country can feel safe. It is therefore an important step that we will certainly take when we vote on this matter because we agree in committee. It is an important step we take when, in the courtrooms, you will not only test the violence between parents but also take up the child's perspective on the table, what the child has seen and the harm that the child has suffered. This gives the child the opportunity to obtain redress in court and also gives the child the right to compensation. Mr President, I would like to The fight against men's violence against women must be side by side with the children's right to a safe upbringing. You can't tell the two things apart. Today's parliamentary decision, I would say, is an important step in the right direction in this work. With the new crime, we broaden the legal perspectives on violence in close relationships. The children's experience goes from being background reports to an important part of the judicial trial. When one parent targets another parent, violence is also directed at the child who watches and remembers life. Today's parliamentary decision is about how society should deal with violence when it has happened, but even more important must be to stop the violence – to ensure that it does not happen from the beginning. Attitudes and laws must change. The work must continue. Men's violence against women must stop. But there is reason to look to the future in a positive light, Mr President. Testimonies during the metoo and the increased knowledge, which not least the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala has contributed, have created a pressure for change throughout society. Now it is up to us politicians to live up to expectations. Today, in Parliament, we are voting on a bill that breaks new ground in this area, but there will soon be more. To conclude, I would like to endorse Amendment No 4 to the report.
i-55518beec79bda17-134	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates support all the reservations that we have, but I only support reservation 6. For a long time, there has been discussion about whether children who witness crimes should be given the right to be sued. Because when children who witness violence have not been beaten themselves, they do not receive the help they would need. They are not plaintiffs, which means that they are not given either a special representative or a plaintiff who is able to defend their interests. Custodians may also prevent a child from being interrogated. The child must not leave his or her story, which can be very harmful to the child later on. The criminal protection of these children needs to be strengthened, and we Moderates have exercised this. A new crime, a child's peace crime, is to be introduced into the penal code. This means that it will be punishable to expose a child so that the child witnesses violent and sexual crimes in close relationship. Thus, witnessing crimes means that the child either sees the crime itself or hears when it is committed. The child must be related or previously related to both the offender and the victim of the crime. Children who witness crimes shall also be entitled to compensation. Mr President, I would like to The government's bill is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. We Moderates have followed up on further proposals to improve the protection of children. First of all, we want more punishment than the government has proposed. The government proposes that the penalty scale for serious child peace crimes should be between nine months and four years in prison. We believe that the government's starting point – that the scale of penalties for child peace crimes should harmonize with the scale of penalties for gross female poverty – is a good one, but we have previously proposed that the minimum penalty should be at least one year. This means that it should be tightened up compared to today's nine months. We are also proposing that the maximum penalty for serious women's poverty be increased to ten years. Therefore, the scale of penalties for serious child protection offences should be increased accordingly. It is very good that the Committee on Justice also believes that the proposed scale of penalties is too low, especially since the penalty may be consumed by the so-called quantity rebate. This may be the case, for example, in cases where a parent is convicted of gross violation of women's rights and of child peace crimes in the same case. There, then, the so-called quantity discount enters so that there is a lower penalty for the child peace crime. It is simply wrong, and therefore the scale of penalties for child peace crimes should be higher than in the government's proposal. This is going to be an announcement today, which is very good. We Moderates also propose clarification regarding the responsibility for the collection of children for questioning. The study on which this proposal is based has identified the need to clarify the mandate and scope of the special representative. The government has chosen not to propose such clarification, given that the special representative does not have any coercive measures to bring children for questioning. I've talked to a lot of child investigators, and it turns out that some special representatives actually refused to pick up the child for questioning or help– even though that's their mission. That is why this needs to be clarified. We Moderates think it should be in the legal text that it is the special representative who has the practical responsibility for the pick-up. However, the fact that the special representative, as the government says, has no powers of coercion, makes it crucial to consider that the special representative has done what it has been able to do, so to speak. Then it should sort of be enough that they have taken their responsibilities. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, children are subjected to various forms of violence every day. It can be about physical violence, psychological violence, neglect, etc. Violence takes place at home, at school, on the way to school and in various places in the community. Children who are victims of violence are adversely affected in different ways both in childhood and later in adulthood. Often it is about failed schooling, mental illness, addiction and unemployment. Above all, there is a lot of crime. It is very important that society does everything in its power to combat this violence. Unfortunately, there are major shortcomings, resulting in children not receiving the support they need. Children's houses investigate crimes against children. There police, social services, complaints authorities and health care work together. As I have told you before, I have worked at Barnabas Gothenburg, and it is actually incredibly sad to see how many children suffer ill, who have to grow up in violent homes and who are themselves exposed to violence. Some investigations get stuck in the head, so even if it's over ten years ago, I remember a beautiful woman in over 30 years. Her common-law had beaten her hard. He had several times strangled so hard that every blood vessel in her eyes had broken. So you didn't see what color her eyes were. He had beaten her to pieces with a baseball bat-- that's what he had done the time she was in interrogation with me-- and he had stabbed a knife in her leg. In the middle of it all, there were two little kids. I spoke to the children's grandmother as a witness. For she had seen some of the assaults, some injuries and so on. We talked about the children, and she said that the children – they were about five, six, seven years old – had already been harmed by this. One of the children was really scared when someone was talking loud, so if someone raised their voice on TV, for example, that child ran and hid and was really scared and nervous. The other child was so aggressive that he beat all the other children in preschool. So they had already been harmed. I think it's sad, because after the interrogation, I sat down and talked to this mother for probably an hour and tried to convince her that for the children's sake she couldn't go back to the man. I probably went over my authority as a police officer when I tried to influence her, because it will be difficult to get these children on the right side later in life. She said she would never go back, but two days later she called and said she took everything back. She had gone back to the man. It's very sad, I must say. I would add that the activities of children's houses must work very well. In 2020, the Parliament issued an announcement to the government that a national plan will be drawn up for the activities of children's houses, and I hope it will come very quickly. It is really needed, because the children's houses are a good business which, however, works very differently in different parts of the country. There are major flaws, according to Barnafrid. They have made an evaluation and concluded that there are major shortcomings over the country. It therefore needs to be dealt with very quickly. Finally, we Moderates want to investigate the introduction of a special representative for children. The investigation on which the Government's proposal is based proposes to investigate the issue of introducing a new form of representation. We think that is right, and we share the view that there is a gap in the enforcement of children's rights where neither the special representative nor the social services can act. In cases where children have been ill and witnessed crimes, neither the special representative nor the social services can apply for care for trauma treatment in connection with the criminal proceedings. It is very important that children receive the treatment they need to overcome the trauma they have experienced. We want an inquiry into a new special representative for these children. That is what I had to say at the moment.
i-55518beec79bda17-151	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ellen Juntti, for one in many pieces very committed and good post! However, I was a little perplexed when you, Ellen Juntti, referred to the committee text, where you Moderates have pushed forward that you want a penalty increase. There's nothing strange about this. On the other hand, I am puzzled when you say that there is a risk that this crime would be consumed by other crimes. The typical case when a crime is consumed, if you talk legal, is that someone is assaulting someone else so that that person dies. Then the offender will not be prosecuted for both assault and manslaughter or murder but only for the more serious crime. It is, as it were, several crimes that constitute a different crime. In this case, it is exactly the opposite. The whole construction is that you have to have a basic crime in order for it to be a witness crime. So there must be a violent crime for which someone is being prosecuted. On top of that, you protect the child who watches this. I thought, Mr President, that perhaps we could gain some understanding of the Moderates' objection, which is now also the committee text.
i-55518beec79bda17-156	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot of discounts. We Moderates have been saying for years that we want today's rules to be removed, because they are completely up the walls wrong. If you commit multiple crimes treated in the same trial, you get a discount. The gravest crime is punishable by full punishment. For the second crime, however, you get a 50% discount, and for the third crime you get a 70% discount. If an offender is charged with gross violation of women's rights and gross reduction of children's rights in the same case, he will be fully punished for the most serious crime, quantity discount for the second most serious and so on. But the crime itself is a collective crime. In that crime there are already several crimes, but the crime itself is gross child-relief and gross female-relief reduction.
i-55518beec79bda17-158	Mr President, I would like to When Ellen Juntti speaks, it is obvious that the Moderates have confused consumption with penalty rebates. That is perfectly all right, although I think we can make higher demands when we, as legislators, decide on these crimes. This announcement also makes us take investigative resources from an already hard-tested department, and I think that is a pity. But in fact, these investigative resources, if I listen to Ellen Juntti, should be spent on investigating how the courts deal with collective crime in order to carry out a comprehensive penalty test. As Ellen Juntti says, today we have a system in which the courts sentence the full penalty for the first crime and then, according to a standard, condemn 50% for the second crime. This can be discussed, and we will probably do so next week when we discuss the criminal justice report. You can also end up in absurd situations such as the one who steals ten different perfume bottles being punished more severely than the one who commits a rape. This is not an uncomplicated issue. I still find it remarkable. The Moderates have increasingly wanted to move the legislative process from the Government Office to the Riksdag. For example, the Moderates on the issue of life imprisonment for murder took an initiative in the Committee on Justice. However, the Law Council sounded the warning signal, and it was finally stopped. Here we see how serious it is when you are not careful with the words and when, as I mean, you do not act in a serious way. As legislators, one cannot confuse the consumption of crimes with the reduction of penalties in the case of multiple crime. Now there may be a lot of people out there who think I'm a smart-ass who are lecturing someone. But this is about such important things as what punishment individuals should face in the event of crime, and you must not be careless about that.
i-55518beec79bda17-165	Mr President, I would like to It's not just those out there who think you're a smart-ass – maybe there's more! I'm just kidding. You can do that in the speaker's chair, can't you? With regard to the quantity rebate, we have been saying for many years that we want this to be reviewed and that today's quantity rebate should be removed. You in the government have not taken that to heart. You haven't said you want it to be reviewed. Ordinary people out there think it's completely wrong that it becomes cheaper the more crimes you are prosecuted for in the same trial. It seems that Gustaf Lantz is more concerned about investigative resources. It's not me. I'm more worried about children who get hurt. If it takes investigative resources to get a good law to protect children, I'm prepared to make sure there's an investigation. Then we'll see where it all lands. You have also said that you want to increase the minimum penalty for gross women's freedom, and this should be in harmony with that. It will be raised to one year in prison, but here you propose the minimum sentence of nine months in prison. They must be followed together, but they do not do so with this bill. That's where we think differently. Investigative resources will have to be added. If it lands in good bill for children, I'm not worried it'll take too much resources. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is rather bad that the government does not propose new forms of representation that can take advantage of children's rights, but we will have to take that next time.
i-55518beec79bda17-171	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. We have today to debate the introduction of the so-called child peace crime. This is particularly important at the moment, given the focus in recent weeks on violence against women, especially in close relationships. We know that this type of violence often takes place before the eyes of children who are forced to witness senseless violence in their own home, committed by both parents or by one parent against the other. Watching my father exposes my mother, my mother exposes my father, my father exposes my mother is not something any child should ever experience. It is therefore a very welcome proposal that is now coming from the government, and it is very gratifying that there is a great deal of agreement on its introduction. However, it is true that few proposals, if any, are absolutely perfect, and I believe that this proposal also applies to this proposal. One of the reasons given by the government itself for the introduction of the child peace crime is that the current special right to compensation for crime is not sufficient. This is a view that the Swedish Democrats share, but we believe, unlike the government, that it is a little premature to suspend the special right to compensation for crime when introducing the child peace crime. The government believes that special rights will no longer be needed. However, it should be noted that there are referral bodies that are critical of this assessment, including Uppsala District Court and the Swedish Prosecution Authority. They believe that the current possibility should be retained as a kind of safety valve to ensure and ensure that the possibility of compensation is not impaired. The Swedish Democrats share this view and believe that it is a more appropriate arrangement, at least until it is ensured that the new regime will not leave any gaps. The Government's proposal in this part should therefore be rejected. This will introduce the child peace crime and the possibility of compensation for such crimes, while maintaining a safety valve with the special penalty. Finally, it is also gratifying that there is a majority of committees to tighten the penalties for this type of crime. Although a severe punishment or punishment can never be entirely counterbalanced for a crime that has been committed, it is of the utmost importance, I believe, that society always stands clearly on the side of the victims and indeed, in this case, on the side of the youngest victims. When a family member is subjected to violence, the children are also subjected directly or indirectly. We also know that the whole thing is connected, because if we build strong children, we don't have to fix so many broken adults.
i-55518beec79bda17-179	Mr President, I would like to Summer holidays are on the way. When I was a kid, it felt like summer vacation would be a small eternity. It was so far until autumn and the next school start it almost felt unreal. And everything we were going to do, everything we were going to build, everything we were going to play, the scents, the sun and the baths were happiness. This is not the case for all children. While most people experience wonderful days, the life of others becomes anxious and troubled by a fear of what will happen when Dad gets angry. They are cautious expectations, played expectations and expressions of joy and gratitude, while darkness and anxiety are trapped inside. Every child deserves security, and it is the responsibility of every adult to do our best to keep all children safe. The report we are debating now does not solve all the problems. In fact, we solve quite little of the problems with children who grow up in homes where violence is everyday. But hopefully we can, over time and to some extent, make the problem smaller, for every little shard that we can peel off of this too many absolutely devastating social problems is worth the effort. Mr President, I would like to We know that violence breeds violence. Children who grow up with violence become violent to a greater extent than others. There is research that shows a clear link between growing-up violence and falling into violent extremism. Any effort that can break that chain, every speed bump down the road of violence, will be useful. It will save lives, because the same mechanisms that create the vicious circle can work in the opposite direction. Mr President, I would like to I do not think that there is a child who has the greatest desire for a parent to go to prison, but rather that the parent should be the person who gives security and love and who is not mean and beating. In some situations, though, a parent cannot be the person who provides security, but it is sometimes just the opposite. There and then society has to step in. Correctional services have good competence to help people break a violent pattern. And sometimes, we have to realize, it's about for a time leaving the child alone from a violent loved one, that the child should not live in fear. That time, according to the Center Party and several other parties, sometimes needs to be longer than what the government proposes in an otherwise good and very welcome proposal.
i-55518beec79bda17-186	Mr President, I would like to Every ten children in Sweden have experienced domestic violence and every 20 children often do so. This means that almost one child in every preschool group and in every class at school has these experiences with them. There are about 200 000 children living with violence in their everyday lives in Sweden. It is very often about men's violence against women, father's violence against mother. Now, at last, we are about to give these children criminal protection. This can be based on the fact that we know more about research than we have done before, but it has emerged for a long time. It is often worse to see a crime than to be the primary victim. It also has long-term consequences. It may be psychosocial problems that may appear early or late. They can break out when you have children and your own childhood experiences flare up. But it is also a long-term consequence that among those who have experienced domestic violence, girls have a greater risk of becoming victims themselves in the future, and boys have a greater risk of using violence themselves as a means of power. The experiences of violence thus risk passing on a means of power to use or submit to them that are still gender-based. And the experiences are driving crime. Violence echoes. I would like to go back to groundbreaking investigation work in our judicial system in 1995. At that time, the women's peace investigation presented its groundbreaking report. Among what is still very interesting in the investigation is a Danish major research report published by Elise Christensen. She has interviewed nearly 400 children at a women's house in Copenhagen. It turned out that 85 percent of the children had been in the same room as assault and that another 13 percent had seen or heard it from an adjacent room, and then only 2 percent were missing who have not seen or heard anything. Moreover, more than one in three of these children had seen or heard the mother be threatened with life. Elise Christensen refused to call these children witnesses alone. She understood that it was much wider and deeper than that. She called them participating witnesses. This was 1995. That same year, on another continent, New Zealand criminalized crimes witnessed by children. Now we are finally on the verge of a similar piece of legislation. It's very important for a number of reasons. Above all, it is important because it becomes normative. It becomes a standard for the children, who have their reality confirmed and authenticated. They will understand that they are not alone, that it is not their fault, as many children unfortunately experience. Nor is it their responsibility, as many children also feel, to try to protect their mother. It is standardizing for the violent man – at best. Now he becomes responsible not only for the violence against the woman he commits but also for the effects on the child. It is standardizing for the mother and the woman, who no longer has reason to stay for the sake of the children, but instead has weighty reasons to break up for both their children and their own sakes. This legislation also means that children can finally talk about these experiences. Children may be heard before a trial or even in court if they are mature enough to do so. Many still say that hearing children can be harmful, but I argue the opposite. Not letting children speak if they want it is indeed misplaced well - meaning and lack of respect. I and many researchers have met several children who are upset that they have not been heard and have not been heard. It is a right to testify, and it must certainly not continue as it has been until now, that the guardian – even the suspect – refuses to allow the child to speak. Only now will children be given full rights as plaintiffs and victims of crime. We finally recognise the human rights of children. We often invoke the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, so we have had a few years. It became Swedish law last year, and we can rely on the articles there. The Istanbul Convention is also binding on Sweden, and Article 26 argues for better support and protection for witnesses and children who witness violence. Are we happy now? Yes and no. The Left Party fully welcomes this bill. It has become a rather clumsy and almost ugly paragraph with many lists, but this needs to be for reasons of legal certainty. We would like to mention in particular that this includes a crime of vandalism. If the perpetrator harms or even kills an animal, it is vandalism, and the child's experience of this can be extremely important to pay attention. Maybe it's a little weird, but legally, animals are one thing. We wish that Sweden had gone even a little further in following New Zealand. They have an important component in their description of their actions. It is not only about the child seeing or hearing but also about the child risking seeing or hearing. We would have liked more attention to be paid to this, but we will have to come back in later proposals to supplement the law. I'll also argue for child reps. The special representative is very important and follows the legal process, now thankfully with two additions: the representative should also be allowed to claim damages or any damages. It's an enlargement. But child reps should have a wider assignment than that. This could be about what someone has already mentioned, namely the child's ability to receive trauma treatment. It may also be that the child needs support in addition to the mother in a complicated situation, such as when changing schools or getting into preschool well. Last but not least, it is about support in custody disputes. Here we are faced with a paradox when we probably club this team but at worst also open up for increased opportunities for joint custody. We must begin to deal with the power that it means when men use violence against women and children to oppress them and get their way. This power must be broken.
i-55518beec79bda17-203	Mr President, I would like to Politics is supposed to support families. The family is the fundamental community of society, so family formation and family unity should be facilitated and encouraged. The integrity of the family should be respected, and parental responsibility should be clarified and encouraged. In most cases, parents are the best protection for the child. Unfortunately, it does not apply to all children. Unfortunately, things happen within the family that should not happen. We see how abuse and violent crime also occur in the home, and then children are affected, sometimes directly but also indirectly when they experience violence in the home that is supposed to be a safe place for their upbringing. On these occasions, it is important for society to be vigilant in order to catch signs that there are problems within a family and to act forcefully to put an end to the violence. With all the tools, society must make it clear that this violence is unacceptable. The Christian Democrats are working broadly to strengthen the legal protection of children who are victims of crime and children who witness crime, for example in the event of violence in close relationships. Mr President, I would like to Children who have themselves suffered or witnessed violence or sexual abuse are at an enormous disadvantage, especially if the crime has been committed by someone close to them. Society must be better at listening to the signals of children who are in bad shape and ready to act. Cooperation between justice, health and social services must work so that the vulnerable child does not end up between the chairs. Barnahus is a collaboration between authorities regarding children who have been victims of crime. Police, social services, psychologists, prosecutors and doctors are co-located. The child may be in a child-friendly environment during interrogations or examinations. Police questionings are usually conducted by a specially trained person, and prosecutors, social services and others follow the interrogation so that the child does not have to tell his or her story more than necessary. Barnabas should be made available throughout the country, and we Christian Democrats are therefore pleased that the Parliament approved just such a proposal in April 2020. Barnahus is located in many places in the country but works differently, not least when it comes to the interpretation of the respective authority's confidentiality legislation. Some children's houses seem to have solved the confidentiality issue in a functional way, while others interpret the confidentiality rules more literally. Then there is a risk that cooperation between the different parties will not function as intended. A change in confidentiality legislation is needed to meet children's needs for help and protection. It would also be welcome in more areas where different authorities interact around children, for example when children are at risk of criminality. It is important that children's rights in legal proceedings are strengthened. The Christian Democrats have exercised if a special representative of children who have been subjected to a crime by a guardian Children who have been subjected to crimes that give prison sentences should also be entitled to plaintiffs. The legal process should be made as mild as possible. That is why all legal professions facing children need to be trained. Judges and prosecutors dealing with child abuse cases should have special competence for this. Mr President, I would like to Even when the child has not been the primary victim of the crime, the child can very much be a victim, especially when it comes to domestic violence. There is therefore a need to make children who have witnessed domestic violence more visible in the legal process. We are therefore in favour of the proposed amendment to the law. We in the Christian Democrats have a child perspective on all our policies. Using violence against others to harm a child is a particularly cruel act. The proposal is therefore a welcome step towards combating the violence that affects children within the framework of the home. The proposal to introduce a new crime, a child-free crime, which punishes a child to witness certain criminal acts in close relationship is satisfactory and to some extent meets what we have been exercising about in the past. But the Christian Democrats, like the majority of the committee, want to see a different scale of punishment from that proposed. The government proposes that the penalty scale for the proposed crime should be the same as for gross female freedom, i.e. imprisonment for nine months to six years. In our view, however, the scale of penalties should be increased, both for gross reduction in women's rights and for violations of children's rights, and that is why, like the majority of the committee, we want the government to act in accordance with today's announcement, stating that the proposed scale of penalties for the crime of child peace is too low and should be increased. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats agree with the criticism of the Children's Ombudsman, Bris and Save the Children in their referrals that the child must witness violence in order to be considered a child peace crime. An experience is not enough. As one of the referral bodies writes, children can experience the aftermath of domestic abuse without having witnessed the act itself, in the form of bruises on the part of a parent or sibling, traces of blood or destroyed furnishings. It is, of course, a complex question of how such legislation should be drafted, but in order to provide greater protection for children, we believe that this situation also needs to be investigated. On this basis, I call for reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that the child's right to representation should be strengthened. The investigation on which the Government's proposal is based suggests that the issue of introducing a new form of representative for children should be investigated in particular. We share the assessment of the investigation that there are major gaps in the enforcement of children's rights outside the area covered by the special representative's mandate. Children who have witnessed, or for that matter have been victims of, crimes may have a special need for their interests to be cared for by an outsider. The government should therefore set up an investigation to investigate how a child representative could strengthen the position of a child when the guardians lack the ability to fulfil their duties as a child's deputy. We also believe, as has already been said, that the activities of children's houses should be equivalent and accessible throughout our country so that children affected by violence can meet experts in a child-friendly environment. The Government's proposals meet a need and remedy a gap that exists in today's legislation, but, as the committee's work shows, it needs to be supplemented in order for the amendment to be fully effective and complete. We Christian Democrats support the announcement that the majority of the committee has proposed and, of course, the claims and reservations of the Christian Democrats, but in this debate, as I said earlier, I only call for reservation 3.
i-55518beec79bda17-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for a very good speech on a very important matter! My question concerns what was originally a reservation but which has now become the committee's opinion and the text contained in the report. I talked about it with Ellen Juntti. As I understood Ellen Juntti and also the committee's report, it is a question of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats coming together on this because they see a risk that they will not be judged on the full value of the penalty. It is therefore a question of reducing penalties in the event of multiple crime. Would it not be better to focus fully on this issue rather than increasing penalties and having an investigation looking at the reduction of penalties rather than compensating in this legislation by increasing penalties? As I read the text, this is what you have agreed on and is the basis for the announcement.
i-55518beec79bda17-227	Mr President, I would like to This is a matter where there is a great deal of consensus. We all see the need for a change in legislation. We are clarifying the children who are affected by introducing a child peace crime. However, I do not share Gustaf Lantz's concern that we only focus on the quantity discount. In the committee's documents, however, it says that the proposed scale of penalties for the offence of child peace is too low, and there is a comma, especially because the penalty may be consumed by the so-called 'punishment'. The penalty scale for child peace violations should therefore be tightened. ..................................................... As I said in my speech, we want to see a common understanding between the scale of penalties for gross female poverty and the scale of penalties for child peace crimes. There we are arguing for a penalty increase in both cases. Then Gustaf Lantz is right that the issue of the quantity rebate is another issue, and we will discuss it. There we, as a party, have the view that the present system needs to be reformed. We cannot have a system like in the United States, where crimes are placed on crime so that you get a sentence of 100 years or so. However, to have today a scale of penalties that consumes the crime is not good, and Gustaf Lantz is therefore right that it is another issue. I would like to remain in the committee's view that the scale of penalties for child peace crimes is too low and should be increased. My argument is that this should be synchronised with an increase even for gross female poverty.
i-DyJktfkwZ9rLz8VKK4B6zG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for the clarification! I can only say that with the legislative proposal now before Parliament, the maximum sentence is two years for offences of the normal order and four years for serious crime. These are relatively high penalties. I personally think it is important how the committee text is formulated. It comes from the parties that come together and announce to the government what they want. All power emanates from the people. We who sit in Parliament are the representatives of the people, so it is very important that we weigh the words on a gold scale when we formulate in the committees and formulate what we are going to vote on here in Parliament. This is what the government then has to deal with, and it is important that it is the right argument and that it is requested to investigate the right things. This is what I mean has been very obscure. I do not know whether what we are saying here and what is put on the parliamentary record at all will have the same dignity as what is actually in the report and what we are going to vote on. This makes me think that the risk is that we take valuable time, energy and energy from a department that has a lot to do. I am sure that both Ingemar Kihlström and I have a long to-do list where we can agree on a lot and where we want to fight crime and men's violence against women with great force. Then I think it is important that we are precise from Parliament. My criticism has been that I do not think we are today when the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have come together about the wording that we are now going to vote on.
i-55518beec79bda17-236	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that I maintain what I have said, that the committee is proposing an investigation into tightening the scale of penalties for child peace crimes. The quantity discount is another issue. I note, however, that the Social Democrats believe that the scale of penalties is balanced and therefore mention nothing about the quantity rebate in their reservation, but they note that the scale of penalties is well balanced and that there is no reason for an announcement of an increase in the scale of penalties. Now, the majority of the Riksdag believes that the scale of penalties is too low. Then we believe that the scale of penalties for other crimes should be reviewed. Investigating whether the scale of penalties for child peace crimes should be tightened up, I believe, is a limited mission, and the investigation into quantity discounts will be handled in another area.
i-55518beec79bda17-240	Mr President, I would like to The home should be a safe place. But for over 200,000 children, the home has turned into a crime scene. Being forced to witness crimes of violence within the family is devastating for a child. The research shows that children who witness crime are at increased risk of physical and mental illness in both the short and long term. Liberals have pushed for the introduction of a child peace crime. Children's peace crime means that it is punishable to expose a child to witness certain criminal acts in the form of, for example, violent and sexual crimes in close relationships. Legislation must be clear in order to really protect the child. The original proposal was insufficient with the condition that violence should take place directly with the child. Removing the requirement for direct access to the child means that the legislation now covers all those children who instinctively seek shelter in the basement, lie under the bed or find other strategies to protect themselves when a father, new man or other close relative chooses to commit serious criminal acts against the child and the child's mother. To broaden the concept of close relatives was necessary in order to include children who grow up in a context where honor-related violence and oppression are practised collectively. Visibility of the women's peace crime increases the conditions for seeing the consequences of violence, such as a broken table, crushed porcelain, injuries to the mother that the child can wake up to and put together with previous traumatic events. These are important changes. I appreciate that the Minister of Justice met the Liberals in order for the legislation to take as its starting point the reality of vulnerable children and to include all children. However, if the government seriously wants children to grow up in safety, further measures must be taken. This applies above all to custody, housing and social relations. When a guardian, usually a father, chooses to use violence against his partner, usually a mother, with the child as a witness, this must lead to the withdrawal of the right to custody, housing and association. The child is now a full legal victim, and every measure should be seen in the light of this. Why is the harmful effects of violence not taken seriously? And why are children forced to live with a violent parent? It doesn't make any sense. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals have called for more protection for children through the crime of child peace, and now we are also calling for violence to lead to the suspension of custody. Children's right to a life free from violence and oppression is a fundamental right. The law says that children need close and good contact with both their parents. When a parent damages his child by direct and/ or indirect violence, there is no good contact. However, the assessment of whether the contact is good or not is rarely seen in the assessment of the best interests of children in terms of housing, custody and access. The fact that courts share custody between a violent mother and a violent father is harmful to both children and mothers. Action must be taken, and the Liberals believe that these measures must be included in the programme of action that the government is expected to present shortly. Politics must take responsibility for the children to be protected from a father who beats. That as a mother does not know if the children will continue to be forced to hang out with or live with the father who practises the violence affects whether the mother should dare to take the step of leaving the violent father or not. We know that children who witness crime are at increased risk of being affected by physical and mental illness. Despite this insight, efforts aimed at vulnerable children are inadequate. In 2015, the Committee on Children's Rights criticised Sweden for the fact that children who are victims of abuse and neglect often find it difficult to access rehabilitation services and psychiatric care. Here too, efforts are required from the government. Efforts are also needed to get violent parents to change their behaviour. However, it is crucial to ensure that the guardian's behaviour has changed and that the vulnerable child can be safe and feel that the change has taken place before a new decision on visitation and accommodation can be made. As the child becomes a plaintiff, it means that the police will hold more interviews with children. Police in external service must also be given the right conditions. They'll be the first to arrive when the alarm goes off. Police officers around the country testify to concerns about whether they should be given these conditions in connection with new legislation. A team leader for crimes in close relationships states that the investigations will be larger, more complex and that there will be a demand for urgency in several cases. It is a picture that the Prosecutor's Office shares and fears that they are not dimensioned to handle this important work. The government must now give the judiciary the right conditions to carry out its important work and strengthen children's houses throughout the country. But the most fundamental thing is that all relevant authorities have to ask questions over and over again to both children and adults about exposure to violence. It is we who should signal that we want to know – signal that the victim is entitled to support and protection. Now we're in a pandemic. The government has chosen not to carry out a child impact assessment. But if we look at the reports from other countries and the information we have received from civil society in Sweden, the message is clear: Violence has increased. Now the government must come up with a clear plan to face up to the violence that has increased in the wake of the pandemic. Mr President, I would like to Making laws is the easiest mission. Ensuring that the legislation has the desired effect requires far more action than the government has managed to deliver.
i-55518beec79bda17-264	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Bloms for his commitment in his speech. I fully share the concerns that you are expressing regarding custody and association, which are taking a completely different path from the one we are discussing about children here now. Then I'm a little perplexed about why the Liberals haven't supported the demand to move on with the child getting an attorney. It would be very important, not least in the custody proceedings, if that were the case. This has taken time. It has been on the record since the 1980s that children would even get the right to speak. But the children do not even have legal counsel in these cases and no one to help them in these matters. What prompted you to wait or not to support this question?
i-55518beec79bda17-267	Mr President, I would like to I thank Gudrun Nordborg for the important issue. I have to be honest with you at this point. Since this bill came – the draft legislation – I have personally been laying on and making the important changes that were within the framework of what we were able to achieve. We didn't come all the way. I also think you need to think about the penalty and its length, but you also need to think about representatives who are an issue that we are pushing. When this proposal comes, it is not the case that the Liberals will oppose it. However, I felt a responsibility for not being able to reach all the way. But if I have been involved in influencing this, I also think that I must then support the whole product. Later, we will have a debate in the Civil Committee dealing with representatives in general. That's where we're clear. However, I share the view that this is necessary, and we will support the proposal once it comes here. I can't say any more about it.
i-55518beec79bda17-271	Madam President, I would like I'll have to buy your explanation. It seems honest and honest. At the same time, I am surprised when the Liberals seem to have a line that they want to be proud of and try to cover into different arenas. But now that there has been a reservation in the Committee on Justice going in this direction, I wonder why they do not support it. The relationships in custody and association that we see when children experience violence are extremely important to focus on. We can talk a long time about the children in this, but I would also like to point out that when a violent man obtains custody and/ or the right of association with the child, it is an extremely serious exercise of power against the woman. It also poses a risk of increased violence. In recent years we have seen extremely dramatic examples of this. Breaking violent capital in a private arena is extremely important. You have to take every opportunity to do that. Agents would be part of it. Of course, we in the Left Party will also be monitoring the issues of custody and association in the debate that is coming soon.
i-55518beec79bda17-274	Madam President, I would like Just as Gudrun Nordborg expresses, it is a matter of ensuring that those who have committed a crime are punished. It is also incredibly important that we represent the child properly. I fully share this view. As Mr Nordborg points out, we will debate this in the Committee on Civil Liberties later. Children need representatives in all the disputes that apply in order for their actions to be brought. I speak here for your idea. I fully share your view. After all, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has now become law, and perhaps what distinguishes existing legislation from the Convention on the Rights of the Child is the right to be heard. Then we must create the conditions for it. I am therefore not going to oppose what Mr Nordborg says about this. It is important that we all recognise that if we are to get women and children exposed to violence to feel that society is on their side, apart from legislation, it is also about the consequence of violence, which needs to be broken. We need to look at the issues of representation and not have the right to custody when choosing to exercise violence.
i-55518beec79bda17-277	Madam President, I would like In recent times, there has been a long-awaited focus in the debate on the issue of violence in close relations, one of the most serious societal problems we have. In the vast majority of cases, men practice violence against women. This is an area that spans many fields and not only concerns us in the Committee on Justice. Much more will have to be done in this area in the future. Victims of violence in close relationships are, in many cases, children living in the household. They are themselves subjected to violence, threatened or forced to see and experience it with all that it entails. No child should ever be subjected to crime or be close to crimes committed, but unfortunately that is not the case. With the decision made today, it is a crime in itself that children witness a serious crime. It's good, and it's about time. Many children's rights organisations have long worked for this. In this context, it is worth highlighting all the non-profit civil society organisations working for children's rights throughout our country. Thank you very much for everything you do and for pushing these issues forward! Madam President, I would like This crime will be prosecuted in general. The possibility for the child to speak in these cases and to make his or her voice heard by a special representative is considerably increased. It is estimated that more than 200,000 children today grow up in homes where violence occurs. There are ways in which this leads to life. In addition to all the obvious in the form of insecurity, it can also bring other problems later in life. We adults are responsible for seeing it, discovering it and taking action against it. Madam President, I would like The change that makes it punishable to allow children to experience crime strengthens the child's position. The person responsible will receive his or her own punishment as a result of this, and the child will also be entitled to compensation. A serious child-free crime will be punishable by up to four years in prison, and the standard rate will be punishable by up to two years in prison. It shows that this is a very serious matter. Madam President, I would like The Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law. Some thought it was wrong at the time. I and the Green Party are very convinced that it was right, because in different ways it strengthens the child's position. It has repercussions in reality. The changes that are being made today are far from the only ones. A wide range of other changes have also been made. With this, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-55518beec79bda17-284	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech that we in the Moderates want to investigate the introduction of a special representative for children. This has also been mentioned by other Members. The investigation on which the proposal is based suggests that the issue of introducing a new form of representative for children should be investigated. We think the same thing as the investigation, that is, there is a gap where neither the special representative nor the municipality's social services can act. Such a special representative for children may be given the power to take up the position of guardians when they are unable, for various reasons, to fulfil their duties as guardians. This could, for example, apply for assistance for support interventions, care for trauma processing and, as we have just heard, in custody processes. It is serious that children do not receive the help and support they need. Let us take trauma treatment as an example. Children suffer terribly badly, and as they grow older, the damage is associated. For some, they remain for the rest of their lives. Both we and the Left Party – unfortunately not yet the Liberals, but I hope they will support this in the future – want an investigation to be set up to look at the issue of setting up a special representative for children. My question to the Green Party on behalf of the government is: why do you not even want to investigate this? Mr Lantz talked a lot about the need for investigative resources. Are you afraid that too much investigative resources will be used? Children need help with this.
i-55518beec79bda17-288	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ellen Juntti for the question and commitment to this. I am not afraid to spend investigative resources on things that make it better for children in Sweden. I don't think that's what Gustaf Lantz meant earlier either. But with the proposal that we now have, it will be better. We are taking clear steps in the right direction. Children's opportunities to speak will be better than they are today. I shall not rule out in any way that what Ellen Juntti is raising from the investigation may be something to take on in the future. However, I note that with this proposal we are taking clear steps forward, which is a good thing. Then I appreciate that there is a commitment to this issue. I see that we will all follow up on how what we decide today will be played out in reality and in practice in the future.
i-55518beec79bda17-290	Madam President, I would like I thank Rasmus Ling for his reply. I think this is a step in the right direction. Not only should you complain, but you should also say when something is good. I think it is a good thing that children who witness crimes are given plaintiff status. It's a step forward. But I also find it strange that the government does not take the opportunity to propose this special representative, because it would mean a great deal to the vulnerable children. Think for yourself – a child may witness domestic violence year after year, but then no one on the part of society can decide to treat trauma. Then a lot of this falls. You can't just say that it's a crime and that an offender is convicted. You also need to see the next step: When does the child get help, and how does the child get help? It can't be here. I think it is a great pity that the government does not do what the investigation proposes, because this would really be necessary. I hope that Rasmus Ling will take this issue with him and try to influence it so that there is at least an investigation, because it is important that the government is on the children's side in all the different parts that are needed. It is my hope that you will come back with proposals on this.
i-55518beec79bda17-293	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti can be absolutely sure that I, the Green Party and the government will follow up children's issues widely. We will never ever settle down and feel that we are ready, but it must constantly follow up how this can get better. This applies not least to aftercare and follow-up after crimes against children or children have been committed. We will focus on this, because children are the most important thing for which a society is responsible. As I was in my main speech, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has strengthened the position of children. It also gives us a clearer mandate to follow up, so that children's rights apply across all areas. When the Convention on the Rights of the Child became Swedish law, the Moderates did not support it. I hope that the value of this will now be seen, that it will be accepted that the Parliament has adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a Swedish law and that it will not work to ensure that it is not.
i-55518beec79bda17-295	Madam President, I would like My question to Mr Rasmus Ling is linked to something I raised in my main speech. We have had a pandemic that has hit children very hard. Nevertheless, no measures have been taken to carry out a child impact assessment, which is necessary in all situations where children are concerned. Is there something that Mr Ling and the Green Party intend to initiate in the near future? It will be important to get a picture of this so that we can equip ourselves properly now that society hopefully opens up. My assessment – this is also seen in other countries – is that isolation has affected violent women and children and that it may only be when we see the consequences of what has happened. I would also like to make another point. I share Mrs Ling's view of the importance of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the fact that we are strengthening children as legal entities. I also see the value and importance of taking the most important step, which may not be the imprisonment of a guardian; the most important thing is that the child does not again end up in prison with a violent parent at home. We need to ensure with much greater clarity that the choices made by a guardian in the exercise of violence against the child's mother or child have direct consequences, as that person has proven to be incapable of providing security, closeness and care. I share the view that it is important to get trauma treatment, but it is also important that the trauma ceases in order to process the trauma.
i-55518beec79bda17-297	Madam President, I would like With regard to the consequences of the pandemic on children, I share the concern. I have – as I am sure Juno Blom has done – taken note of a report published by Children's Right in Society, describing the various consequences that have arisen for many children in the form of increased isolation, more domestic violence and the like. This is something that is definitely taken very seriously. If Juno Blom wants detailed answers to what the government is doing and planning, it is of course better to go to the responsible minister. But I can emphasise that this is one of the most important and priorities for society as a whole. That is definitely something we will focus on in the future.
i-55518beec79bda17-299	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that Mr Ling believes that what we learn about what is happening to children is super serious. I've had a lot of conversations with Bris. Civil society itself tries on its own initiative to appeal and testify to vulnerability. This applies, for example, to Unizon and activities such as 1000 Opportunities, which testify to young guys' violence against young girls. I have great faith in them. That is also why the Liberals are pushing for support for civil society; there they are taking a great deal of responsibility. However, I referred more to what we Members and, above all, the government can do. Since the responsible minister, Märta Stenevi, is an environmental party, we can try to fight from each side to really take responsibility for the vulnerable children. The second question, to which I did not really get an answer, concerns how Mr Ling views the practice of violence against both the child and the mother – whether it is directly or indirectly – we have decided today that it is violence, regardless of the form in which it takes place – should have the most important effect afterwards, namely that it should be brought to an end. I share the picture of how important it is with trauma treatment, which several have been involved in. But we also know that it is not possible to work with trauma treatment if the child is in the midst of a trauma that is going on and you let it continue. Living with violence for a long time also damages children's confidence and trust. It takes an incredible amount of time to build it up. My question is whether Mr Ling believes – now that we have decided to witness violence is a serious crime – that we need to be much clearer about the consequences for a violent parent as well.
i-55518beec79bda17-301	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course. Whatever the crime, but especially in the case of crimes against children, the most important thing is prevention. Processing the consequences is also something that needs to be done, but ensuring that it does not happen and that you do not get into that situation is of course the most important thing. When authorities and others discover domestic violence, they must intervene and ensure that the situation can be brought to an end. I hope that the legislation that we are adopting this afternoon will be normative in that children in these situations will be placed even more at the centre than has been the case so far, so that the legislative changes will have more consequences than they mean legally. A change of approach is needed to put children's rights even more into focus.
i-55518beec79bda17-303	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Justice for the debate you have just had on children who witness crime. We will also be debating children's issues. It is urgent that we take all these perspectives into account. The number of custody disputes has increased in recent years, as well as greatly. It is a dispute between two parties who do not agree on their own or their children. It is a dispute that can end up in court and often leads to conflict. It is a dispute in which the child or children too often get caught between two adults who argue about them. It may be about the children, but there are often also a number of other issues involved where the children suffer. As a result of the sharp increase in custody disputes, the Government decided in June 2014 to invite a special investigator to evaluate the 2006 custody reform. One main task was to examine how the rules on custody, housing and access were applied and decide whether they needed to be changed in order to achieve the fundamental objective of the reform – to strengthen the perspective of child rights. The investigation presented its proposal: See the child! The Government is now presenting the bill A strengthened perspective in custody disputes at the Riksdag's table, and that is what we are here today to debate. The proposal contains a wide range of proposals to strengthen the rights of the child and to see the perspective of child rights in custody disputes. Among other things, measures are proposed to strengthen the child's right to information and participation, to improve the conditions for parents to reach consensus solutions through information talks and to strengthen the protection of children at risk of harm. The Committee on Civil Liberties proposes that the Riksdag say yes to the Government's proposal. Most of the legislative amendments will take effect on 1 July this year, while the new Information Call Act will take effect on 1 January 2022. Madam President, I would like Of course, we don't agree on everything. In the report there are three announcements in which the committee calls on the government to: 中 review the knowledge-raising measures that may be needed to improve the knowledge of persons working in the field of family law; 中 review the question of increased possibilities for the Social Welfare Board to collect data without the consent of a guardian 中 review how custody investigations can also be quality assured in general. We will certainly hear more about these announcements, because it is Members who are represented here today who are behind them. I choose to comment on the first. There's a reservation from S, V and MP. I agree with reservation 17. Of course, I support all of our reservations in the report, but in order to gain time, I only ask for reservation 17. It is of course important that professionals dealing with family law issues have the right skills to do so. We note that this legislative dossier introduces new skills requirements for mediators in order to create the conditions for more successful mediation assignments and thus more consensus solutions. In the case of judges, it is also apparent from the bill that there is an awareness within the courts of the need for specific knowledge and training, and many courts organise internal training courses in different areas of law. Judges are also offered a wide range of training and competence development in matters of custody, housing and socialization through the Academy of Law courses in family law. When it comes to family law secretaries, there are both regulations and general advice that regulate the issue of competence. We also note that the Government is closely monitoring developments in, among other things, the area of family law and that there is extensive work going on through, among other things, various investigations and official assignments. In our opinion, therefore, it is not necessary for Parliament to take any initiative in this matter. That is why we also have a reservation. Finally, I would like to say that this is an issue that we will continue to work on and will continue to follow closely. There are a number of different associations, actors and stakeholders who have been in contact with surely all of us and made important contributions to the process forward. I would like to thank you for the dialogue we have with the relevant organisations. I can promise that I and the Green Party will follow these issues closely. It's not a child who should get hurt because two adults can't get along.
i-55518beec79bda17-317	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a strengthened child rights perspective in custody disputes. This issue is important to many, and it hurts for many. We see that the number of custody disputes is increasing, and we know that it is associated with a lot of pain for all involved. I have a great deal of respect for that. Listening to people who tell you what it's like to be in disputes about their children leaves no one unmoved. Listening to children who talk about how parents fight is even worse. This is one of the most difficult things in politics, to make laws about the purely interpersonal and what goes so deep in us. As Emma Hult said, the proposals are based on the investigation See the child! which had the task of evaluating the 2006 custody reform but also of making proposals for improvements, with a focus on the child's rights. The focus is therefore on the child, the children's rights and how they can feel well. I have met representatives of several different organisations and other bodies who work with perspectives on this issue and represent slightly different interests. I have also met family dishes in several municipalities, and all of us politicians have listened to researchers in this area. Very summary is the picture that I have got that it is very likely that in cases where there is a strong conflict between parents that never tends to end, there are also other problems. It can be mental illness, addiction, financial problems, violence or a history of having parents who have argued about the same thing. That, of course, makes the whole situation difficult. Many who work in family law have pointed out that many of these parents have a life situation that would need a holistic approach, but that the way to work does not really exist today. I'm not surprised. This is the case in many areas where people suffer. This is rarely due to a single reason that is easy to fix. Problems are often complex, and we lack tools for the whole. There we politicians have a great lesson to do. But this is mainly about children. What should we do to strengthen the child's right to a good life? It is not about how we respond to the wishes of the parents, because they are secondary in this context. I hear that there is a big gap in the views on the extent to which children can express their opinion. In this work I have encountered people who seriously think that children can't have any idea of what their lives should look like, because they are too young to understand their own good. It has been exemplified with children as large as twelve years old. It's made me very confused about how those people look at children. There are plenty of contexts when children need guidance. It's when teeth are brushed, gloves are on when you're cold and candy is a really bad breakfast. But to think that children do not know how they feel and what and who makes them feel good when it comes to issues of association with adults is to see children more as a thing than an individual. Children are entitled to both their parents, we say. That's right, if the baby wants it. But there are children who, for good reason, are not at all interested in associating with one parent because they feel that they are not well. There are also parents who really do everything they can to pep to hang out with the other parent before his week or weekend but who see that the child is crying and shaky as it approaches. Perhaps the child will lock himself in – difficult situation. I'll give children the chance to tell them what they want, if they want to. If they don't want to, they won't have to. Children should also be allowed to talk about it without the consent of the guardian and without the presence of the guardian. They also have the right to receive information about what is happening. Sometimes it comes up in the debate that parents would influence their children in one direction or another. And so it is probably to different degrees because all adults around a child affect the child. Allowing the child to speak freely without having close guardians becomes essential. Now it's called the ability to cooperate and when it comes to the parents. What we are now proposing is that the Court should instead pay particular attention to the parents' ability to put the child's needs first and to take joint responsibility. It is an important shift, which is also supposed to be less conflict-driven. In order for parents to go to court, they must first have participated in a so-called information call. For it has been shown that many lack knowledge of these processes, of the possibilities available, and of the consequences for the child when the parents come to court. It is therefore very likely that more parents can find solutions for the child than they do today without going to court if they understand this. As time is slowing down in children's lives, it is important that we introduce a legal deadline of four months for investigations. New skills requirements are also introduced for mediators and a strengthened protection of the confidentiality of information provided to a mediator in order to create the conditions for more successful mediation assignments. We can also achieve more consensus solutions. I also want to say something about children who get hurt. As I indicated earlier, research shows that in strong conflicts about children there is often violence. It's known. In my municipality of residence Gävle such a survey was made perhaps 15 years ago that showed that in ongoing custody conflict it was more common that there had been violence than that it had not done so. The government says in the bill that there is more to do for those who are victims of violence in close relationships and especially for children who are exposed to or witness violence. The government will also tell you what to do. This is how it will always be with these questions; it will always have to be turned further in the system when we gain more knowledge or when society's view of the issues changes. Now we are taking this step: further putting children's needs at the centre of our attention. I'm very proud of that. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of our reservation 19 but, of course, I support all our reservations.
i-55518beec79bda17-336	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Moderates on the matter, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 15. The best – words that fortunately have become a mantra as we now deal with new legislative proposals in the area of family law. A clear focus on this should be a matter of course and a guiding principle for a society that wants to protect its smallest and weakest and to ensure their safe upbringing. Today's Government proposal is largely the result of an announcement from 2017, in which the Riksdag commissioned the Government to improve the legislation on custody disputes in order to ensure that it is actually the child that is at the centre and not the parents' conflict. The announcement was also about reducing the level of conflict to try to find solutions before taking your dispute to trial. Current legislation has focused on parents' ability to cooperate. Now the focus shifts to the parents' ability to put the child's needs first. This, Madam President, is a movement that may not immediately feel so great but which has consequences for what is most important when deciding a custody dispute, namely the best interests of the child and the needs of the child. A great deal is good in the proposal that has been put forward; I can say that. It is certainly a step in the right direction, but there are still elements that should have been taken into account and where we should have gone further. The fact that the Riksdag does not believe that the government has come all the way to goals bears witness to today's three announcements. It is announcements about the competence of those who work with the issues of dispute, about the ability to collect information without the guardian's consent and about how to ensure quality. Madam President, I would like Today's announcement on competence issues is based on the fact that, although we share the Government's view that the need for competence-enhancing measures within the Court is met, we believe that the need is also present in the field of social services. In order for the perspective of children's rights to be fully implemented in practice, it is necessary for all professionals who apply the acquis to have the right conditions. Most of the decision-making documents are already good, but we believe that there is an overall need for knowledge raising. The second announcement concerns the possibility of collecting data without the consent of the guardian. Today's bill, which highlights the child's involvement, enables the social welfare board to hear the child without the guardian. We welcome this change. We also believe that the new rules on data obligations that allow data to be provided between different social welfare boards are good. But that is not quite enough. The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, like the Committee on Social Affairs, sees that there may be a need for rules on confidentiality or the possibility of collecting data elsewhere. If the aim is for the child's best interests to form the basis for decisions, it is important that we have a regulatory framework that enables all relevant information to be available. Madam President, I would like Today's third announcement is given to the government because we believe that there is a need to ensure the quality of the social welfare committees' investigations. There are today a number of general Councils, which we have also heard my colleague from the government say, on the responsibility of the social welfare committee. But that's not enough. Although custody investigations are generally of good quality, quality can vary, and there are development areas. This is something that the government itself mentions in the budget proposal for 2021, where we can read: Surveys in the area of knowledge management show that there is still a lack of knowledge about, for example, evidence-based methods in social services. The social welfare committees' investigation is a very important basis for the courts. Such an investigation must therefore always be of high quality and have a clear children's perspective. The focus should be on the best interests of the child – not on the parents' conflict. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight a few things that we Moderates would have liked to have seen included in the bill. The first is that information calls should be replaced by mediation whenever possible and should be applied more widely before court proceedings. Like several consultation bodies, we fear that the new system of mandatory information calls will not achieve its purpose. Nor is it sufficient for a court to be able to recommend cooperation and mediation between parents, as this presupposes that an action has already been brought before a court. Mediation should be a tool to keep the level of conflict down and avoid custody disputes ending up in court. Madam President, I would like According to the new proposal for mandatory information calls, these should have taken place within one year before a claim can be filed in court. We think it is a good thing to have a time limit, but we believe that a six-month time limit would be preferable, because such a time limit would seem more likely to discourage the tendency to bring proceedings in court. Furthermore, Madam President, already six months from the child's perspective is a long time. Madam President, I would like Mom and Dad are usually the two most important people in a child's life, but there may be others. It could be grandparents or bonus parents. Today's family constellations may look very different, and legislation must take that into account. Under the current regulations, the child's guardian has a responsibility to meet the child's need for relations with someone who is particularly close to the child. If the guardian does not assume his or her responsibilities and the child is refused access, the social services or the court may intervene. But the signals are that the possibility to intervene when it does not work is applied very sparingly. What, then, is the purpose of legislation that is not used? Are the objectives of the legislation achieved? Can the child feel confident that he or she will not lose contact with his or her social parents or grandparents? An investigation is currently under way to look at these issues, and that is a good thing. We expect the government, when the investigation is presented next year, to make the necessary changes to the law to ensure the child's right to the people who are important in the child's life, upbringing, security and future.
i-55518beec79bda17-356	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to start by saying that I, of course, support all our reservations. However, I only support reservation 3. The Swedish Democrats have a slightly different view from the government on custody disputes. We would prefer the custody disputes to be kept out of court as far as possible. We have looked very much at Norway's solution with so-called mekkling, which is a kind of mediation completely outside the court. We call it family mediation in our proposal. I believe that there is an over-reliance that courts and mediators appointed by the Court should be able to resolve conflicts between adult individuals who themselves have failed to resolve the same conflicts, especially when the conflict has only had to grow properly for a few years. We believe in getting in early, when it is clear that the parents are moving apart, when the divorce is a fact. My experience is that the vast majority of adult parents then want to agree on how to resolve custody, when most people think that this will not happen to the children. If you come in before we have become enemies of the division of the household pasture and about who actually benefits most from the car, before my former partner has got a new partner, a strange individual who is going to hang out with my children, and before we have blocked each other on Facebook it becomes much easier to talk about the children. Then the vast majority of parents agree on custody. When you agree, you write down exactly what you agree on with the family mediator. Then you have something to go back to when the discord increases and the pressures eventually come. Today we have chosen not to support the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their position, as it is based on the Finnish model as soon as possible. Although we probably believe that the Finnish model is better than the government model, we choose to stick to our proposal on family mediation at the moment. In fact, we agree on more mediation, but preferably outside the court if you ask me. Madam President, I would like When I first entered the Riksdag in 2014, I was placed in the investigation that was named the 2014 custody inquiry. New and naive as I was, I believed in change and that this investigation would be carried out urgently. Much of what was discussed and suggested in See the Child! , which the final product of the investigation later came to be named, is unfortunately a little watered down today and to some extent also distorted. Discussions on the importance of the child's need for both his parents and the fact that parents who understand the child's needs for the other parent are to be rewarded have virtually disappeared along the way. The investigation suggested writing, but the government did it again and suddenly the interpretation is not as obvious. It is sad, I think, especially for the children who might be affected if the interpretation is no longer as the investigation had actually planned. However, how it will work in practice remains to be seen. Madam President, I would like I would also like to comment on the three announcements proposed. One is about the education of those who work with family law issues, i.e. social services around Sweden. The second is that the Social Welfare Board should be able to retrieve information without the guardian's consent. The third is that custody investigations should be quality assured and preferably become uniform and evidence-based, as it is said. Every municipality today has the opportunity to set up how to do this. Better guidelines are needed. I myself am behind the party's family legal conferences, which we have held annually until the outbreak of the pandemic. Then, unfortunately, there have been no more family-law conferences; we will have to resume that when the pandemic eventually fades. However, at all the family law conferences we have talked about precisely the need for education in social services, the need to be able to obtain information without the guardian's consent and the need for evidence-based investigation methods. That is why it is particularly gratifying that we can send a statement to the government on this today. Now I know that announcements to the government are not something that causes any immediate change. Rather, they are being piled up and waited for a long time to come. But to all who listen, have faith! It is not long before the next election, and once we have passed that election, these are actually three things that a number of parties have now signed up to and that we can continue to push together.
i-55518beec79bda17-366	Madam President, I would like Custody disputes and children's rights in them are an incredibly complex and difficult issue. There are always several pictures in a custody dispute. It's the children's picture, it's one parent's picture, it's the other parent's picture and it's other social adults with several who have different pictures. That is why it is incredibly important that we have this kind of debate and discussion, both in this House and with people outside this House. The most important thing is to find a way to move forward so that we constantly ensure: What is the child's best interests? How can the child speak and be involved in influencing his or her own future? It is with pride that I am standing here today in view of the announcements to the government that are being proposed, which several have already mentioned. I am very pleased that so many have been able to gather around some of the proposals that come from the Center Party but also around proposals from other parties. It's about an increase in knowledge. Above all, we need to find ways to talk to children. How do we communicate with children properly, so that it is the child's image we get in the conversations and not the different adults' perspective? A specific competence is required in order to be able to have that type of conversation. For once again, whose story is the most true? An announcement is about evidence-based methods, for us to have a uniform way of working and to get answers to these questions. Each situation may have several different answers to why a child acts and says as it does or why an adult acts and says as it does. It is therefore important to find a way to really find out what the facts of the matter are. By that I will not say that there are no fact-based investigations at all today, because it does. There are very many good investigations, and a very good job is being done. But we need to ensure that it always happens in all situations. A further announcement is about being able to have confidentiality-breaking provisions in different situations, on the one hand, that you can obtain information without the guardian's consent, and on the other hand that you can talk to other reference persons in these investigations in order to obtain, again, what picture is most important for the child. It is also important to ensure the child's right to other important adults. It is about social parents, it is about grandparents and it can also be about other adults who are close to the child. When we talk about raising knowledge, it is, as others have done, about the justice system and about those who work in social services. However, I also believe that we need to help and strengthen our social committee politicians on issues of how to ensure children's right to speak. Madam President, I would like What I have been talking about now is an opportunity to make a reality of whether the government is taking on board the announcements that the Parliament is now making and which come from, among other things, the Center Party's proposals. But, of course, I am not satisfied with these issues. What I also lack is a holistic approach from the government to these issues. There is also a great deal of work going on within the Social Affairs Committee, where people talk a lot about children's rights and what is the child's best interests when it comes to the law on the care of young people. We must have legislation that is connected, and that applies to both the LVU, the Social Services Act and what was discussed earlier, namely children as victims of crime. The government needs to come back to this and get to grips with the investigation that came up with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. What do we need to improve in legislation so that we really live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Compulsory cooperation talks are a proposal in this report that seems to win the floor of the House today. It's a step along the way, but I want it to be about mandatory mediation. We're not gonna have any kids in court unless we really have to. It is about that the person who carries out these mediations must have the right knowledge but also about that there should be a person who can stand for the children's perspective and have knowledge in, for example, child psychology to strengthen the child's perspective in the discussions and make sure that it does not even have to come to the court. I want to get into one more thing that makes this issue as big, difficult and complex as it is, and that is when there are allegations of violence in a custody dispute – whether it is a matter of physical or psychological violence. We need to find a way to deal with that process alongside the custody litigation process. Those processes are closely linked, but should not be handled together. We must ensure that children are not in danger of being with parents who are not good enough parents. However, we must not have a process whereby the child cannot have contact with a parent who is good enough. Therefore, it is incredibly important to find a way to move forward so that this becomes two specific processes. Again, this is a very complex issue. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud that we have some announcements that can make us take steps forward and that they come from the proposals of the Center Party along with other parties. It is about knowledge, investigation methods and conversations with reference persons. As I said, I want the government to come back and have a holistic approach to this in order to make everything for the benefit of the child. There's a few bits left. I support all our reservations and announcements and call for the approval of reservation number 2.
i-55518beec79bda17-382	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 12. In Sweden there is a great political consensus that children's conditions and best interests should come first. The fact that children have the same human dignity as adults, but at the same time need special support and protection, most people are up to it. Yet there are children who suffer in Sweden. Political agreement on the major conventions is therefore not enough, and laws may not always be enough. It is also about priorities of financial resources, about the will and ability to listen to children and give them influence and about the issue of children's rights being high on the political agenda. The issue of men's violence against women is very topical. Several fatal cases in a short time have left the issue in the spotlight of the media. It is a violence that is terrible and that affects many people. The obvious thing is that women are affected, but in cases where there are children, they are also severely affected. For example, since 2000, over 250 women in Sweden have been killed by a man with whom she has had a relationship. In many cases, there have been children in the home or near when it happened. Unfortunately, however, many children also experience how a parent, in the vast majority of cases the mother, is abused both physically and mentally for a long time. The gross violence rarely comes as a flash from a clear sky, but it is a long process in which she is slowly but surely broken down by escalating use of both psychological and physical violence. It doesn't start with a serious assault with knives and iron pipes. Madam President, I would like It poses a great risk to children's mental health to be forced to experience domestic violence. In a work ahead of the 2006 custody reform, the Swedish Crime Victims Agency pointed out that children are affected so seriously when they experience violence in their local environment as when they themselves are exposed to it. The basis for assessing the best interests of the child in current legislation remains unchanged in the Government's proposal. Thus, the most important aspect when the child's best interests are deemed to be the risk that the child or someone else in the family is abused or that the child is unlawfully taken away or detained or fathered, according to the parental code. There is also the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now Swedish law and which states in Article 9 that children are entitled in principle to both their parents, except where this is contrary to the best interests of the child. And Article 19 marks the responsibility of each Contracting State to take measures to protect the child against all forms of physical and psychological violence, injury or abuse – also in relation to the parents. It is therefore problematic when, against the wishes of both parents, it can be sentenced to joint custody in the Government's proposal or when one party has been subjected to physical or psychological violence. Joint custody cannot be in the best interests of the child in such circumstances. Madam President, I would like Women and children should not be forced into cooperation with a person who has subjected them to violence. It cannot be equated with cooperation difficulties. For many, it is about a struggle for life and death and about the well-being of their children. The desire to protect oneself and the child should not be classed as cooperation difficulties and for an already vulnerable person may result in loss of custody. Several consultation bodies, including the Children's Ombudsman, the Foundation General Barnhuset and the organization Unizon, also rejected the proposals for joint custody in their referrals in the light of research as well as their own contacts with children. The Left Party believes that the court should not be able to decide on joint custody if both parents oppose this. The court should also not be able to decide on joint custody against a parent's will in cases where a parent has subjected the other parent or child to violence or abuse. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal proposes that a new provision on the right of the child to receive information and to speak on matters of custody, housing and association should be included in the Parent's Code in order to improve the conditions for children's participation. The Left Party welcomes the government's proposal to increase children's ability to have their voice heard. However, when the parents argue about custody, housing or court relations, they are usually represented by each of their agents. Often, then, the legal process is about bringing justice between the two parents. In order for the child's right and the principle of the child's best interests to be taken seriously, we believe that children should be entitled to a legal representative who is for their own good and to ensure that children are listened to. Many children feel that they are not allowed to speak and that their will is not important. They also feel that they have not received enough information and are uncertain about the consequences of their actions. It is not uncommon for a custody dispute to be a very difficult experience for a child who is already between fighting parents. Then it is important to have a person who looks after the child's best interests and is there throughout the process and that the child can build a relationship with. The reasons put forward for giving the child his/her own representative include the fact that the child would be harmed by being involved in the legal process and that it could reinforce the conflict between the parents or complicate the handling of the case with a third party. But it is about the best interests of the child, and then each child should be entitled to his or her own legal counsel in all matters of custody, housing and association. This is something that several consultation bodies, such as Save the Children and the Children's Ombudsman, have pushed hard on. Madam President, I would like In August last year, Ekott on Swedish Radio reviewed custody disputes. They investigated 144 custody disputes, and in many cases parents convicted of domestic violence had obtained custody of or relations with the children without the courts having carried out a documented risk assessment. If there is information that children can be harmed, for example through abuse, the court must by law carry out a risk assessment in case of custody disputes. The court shall then decide whether there may be a danger to the child that a parent has custody or association. In 133 of the cases, there were data on violence or other risks, but almost three quarters of them lacked documented risk assessment. It is, of course, a problem when such a part of a judgment is not included. The Left Party believes that a special children's protocol should be drawn up as an annex to the judgment, a checklist stating, for example, that risk assessment has been carried out, that a medical examination has been carried out or that discussions with the child have taken place. In one of the cases in the review, a father who was convicted of over 15 threats and violent crimes had been granted the right of association even though he had been convicted of a crime precisely in connection with relations. This was done without documented risk assessment. The purpose is not to govern how the courts should justify their judgments but to ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account. Mandatory children's protocols shall strengthen the principle of the best interests of the child and serve as support for the members of the Court. It will be clear how the courts justify their decisions and positions with the best interests of the child in mind.
i-55518beec79bda17-402	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is difficult to understand another person's situation, to try to understand how the other person has it and feel and what it thinks is important and to have an objective view of what needs to be done for that person to feel good. To do this exercise with a complete stranger is almost impossible. On the other hand, it is easier to do the thinking exercise if it is your partner, whom you love, wants everything well and has lived with for a long period of time. But this will to try to understand the needs of the other person seems to disappear in many cases when it comes to custody disputes. In many cases, personal needs, opportunities and feelings are more important than the needs of the former partner or even the needs of their own children. I believe that the way forward in custody disputes is to continue to have that view – what is important for the other, what is important for my child and what are the needs that we can jointly see and solve and have it as an opportunity. I believe that those who are most often caught up in all legal custody disputes are actually the children. They end up in a situation that they are not guilty of, and many times they may not understand either. Therefore, I am pleased that the new regulation means that there will be special attention to the parents' ability to put the child's needs first and to take joint responsibility in matters concerning the child rather than, as is the case today, in the ability of the parents to cooperate on matters relating to the child. These are two completely different things. I'm very glad we're changing that. The best interests of the child must be decisive for all issues of custody, housing and social relations. Putting children's best interests first means that biological parents' rights actually have to stand back. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law, and that is exactly what it means. I would like to try to highlight one of the proposals that we support together with other parties. Instead of mandatory information calls, there must be a mandatory mediation procedure. We all know that the person who attends information calls receives the information but that no activity is necessarily needed from the person who receives the information. But mediation, I mean, requires not only information-gathering but also activity and attitude from the person. At best, mediation leads to a result that the parties may think is okay even if they do not get exactly what they want. The conflict may, of course, persist after a mediation call, but it is more likely that it will be resolved in this way than through an information call. My entry into this is that the custody cases that go to court are a failure. As a former elected representative of the Social Welfare Board, I can see that these matters are the most difficult and that they tend to increase in problems if they do not manage to get into dialogue at an early stage and shift the focus from themselves to the situation of the former family. The person most affected by a lengthy trial to the court is the child who gets caught. Like several consultation bodies, we fear that the new system of mandatory information calls will not sufficiently achieve the desired objective, because it is not geared towards conflict resolution, and it is often necessary to do more than just an information call. We therefore believe that the system of information calls should be replaced by a compulsory mediation procedure, which should be carried out by people with knowledge of law and of children's development. Parents should also be given basic information on how a custody process is conducted, how the process affects the child and what the process entails in terms of time frames, costs and outcomes. The legislative proposals contained in the report aim to ensure the right and participation of the child in the process and will strengthen the child's perspective and rights. That's good. However, it is not enough to fully guarantee the best interests of the child and the right of the child to speak. The risk is obvious that court proceedings are more about the situation and needs of the parents than about the child's needs and that the child's views are not heard. When the parents argue about custody, housing or court relations, they are usually represented by each of their agents. Like several consultation bodies, we believe that it is reasonable to introduce a right to own legal representation or representation for the child who is the subject of the parents' dispute. The child's representative or assistant shall be disconnected from the parents and their representatives and shall have special competence for his/her duties. I believe that this is the easiest way to ensure that the child's views come out. If we believe that it is a conflict to have two guardians fighting, there should be no more than two guardians. Guardians have a special responsibility for making important decisions jointly. With more than two guardians, the risk of conflict increases. Therefore, we should continue to have no more than two guardians. We Christian Democrats have a reservation on that. We Christian Democrats are also in favour of the three proposals on announcements that have been talked about before. However, I would like to ask for the approval of only reservation 8.
i-55518beec79bda17-413	Madam President, I would like The aim of this debate is to create better conditions for parents to reach consensus solutions in custody disputes and to strengthen the protection of children at risk of harm. Liberals have long worked for children to be seen as individuals in various respects. Children must be recognised, respected and protected as holders of rights. Children are individuals with personalities, their own needs and interests and have the right to their personal integrity. Is this, then, a bill that puts all children's rights first? We welcome the Government's ambition to integrate a strengthened child rights perspective into the handling of custody disputes. But we're not happy. The particular vulnerability of vulnerable children is not sufficiently taken into account. Their needs are not the focus of the bill. Custody disputes are complex and rarely uniform. The proposal takes its starting point in custody disputes where there is basically nothing but a difficult dispute between two parents. This can be about guardians who are in conflict because they do not agree on how the summer place should be shared or because one party feels anger that the other party has moved on. It is a disagreement which, unfortunately, can lead to conflict on the issue of custody as well. In these situations, the proposal we are discussing today will have a role to play. However, we Liberals expect more. The needs of all children must be taken into account, and it is particularly important that the needs of victims of violence are made visible and that they receive legal support in custody disputes. The basis for the disputes of the child's guardians who have been subjected to violence is much more complex and difficult to deal with than disagreement on how to divide the farm between the parents. Research shows that in about half of the most difficult custody conflicts there are violence or threats of violence. The proposal does not take into account the best interests of children in these matters. Liberals have pushed for a child peace crime to be introduced into the law. We debated this topic earlier today in this House. Children's peace crime means that it is punishable to expose a child to certain criminal acts, such as violent and sexual crimes in close relationships. Children who witness such crimes are at increased risk of physical and mental illness in both the short and long term, according to the research. The introduction of child peace crimes would highlight and give priority to the legal rights of victims of violence. But that's not enough. Lawmakers need to pursue the ambition to protect children in order to reduce the risk that they are again exposed to violent situations. The government must take action in relation to custody, housing and social relations. No one expects a victim who is an adult to want to hang out or live with his perpetrator, Madam President. Why, then, are children forced to live with violent parents? The government should come back with a more thorough proposal, a proposal that recognises the differences in custody disputes and supports children in complex custody disputes. The government's commitment to creating opportunities for courts to judge to joint custody even in cases where both parents oppose this is difficult to understand. In what cases will joint custody of both parents' wishes be the best, given the situation of the most vulnerable children? Several consultation bodies, including Save the Children and the Children's Ombudsman, express corresponding concerns. In order not to risk the child's upbringing becoming even more marked by the parents' conflicts, this possibility needs to be applied with great caution, and in situations where there is violence or a risk of violence, the application of this possibility must be completely excluded. Here too, the Liberals are calling for the government to come back with reform proposals. In custody disputes, the child has the right to be heard in matters relating to the child as a person, such as access, custody and housing. The child also has the right to know and understand what is to happen and why. The Liberals therefore believe that children should be entitled, in the context of custody disputes, to their own representative with special competence to work with children, a representative who is responsible for the child's actions in the custody dispute. In order to ensure that children's rights are taken into account, ongoing further training is also needed to increase the competence of social security secretaries working with investigations and with placed children. Our teachers, police officers and school nurses need to have knowledge and tools to help vulnerable children who find it difficult to tell about their lives and potential vulnerability. When we talk about children who witness violence, we know that there are children who are forced to witness when Mom is murdered. To hear the voices of the children in Aftonbladet's review gives a painful insight into the enormous betrayal that all too often follows the tragic event. For many years, a boy who had seen his mother murdered was forced to spend the night with his father in prison. Only when the social secretary was replaced did the visits stop, and it became apparent that the boy was terrified of his father. One girl had telephone contact with her father in prison for several years. He explained to his daughter that it was her mother's fault that he murdered her. Finally, the bup said, and the calls stopped. Liberals consider that in cases where a guardian is convicted of the murder of the other guardian, the person who is convicted shall always be deemed to have been so deprived of custody that the right to custody of the child shall be deemed forfeited. Liberals consider that this provision should apply without exception. That part of the government's letter is a step along the way, but it is far from enough.
i-55518beec79bda17-432	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the civil committee's report CU18 Prohibition of the recognition of foreign polygamy etc. In the bill, the government proposes a general ban on the recognition of polygamy concluded under foreign law. In practice, the foreign polygamy eligible for recognition in Sweden concerns only men who are married to several women. The fact that men are allowed to marry several women is discriminatory and incompatible with the principle of equal treatment of spouses on which Swedish law is based or with the requirements of equality. The government therefore proposes a new general rule that no foreign polygamy should be recognised in Sweden. The Government's proposal means that even if you have married in the country of origin before the entry into force of this new law and then come to Sweden, the marriage will not be recognised in the future. The prohibition shall apply regardless of whether the parties were linked to Sweden or not when they married. Derogations from the prohibition shall be possible only if there are exceptional reasons in an individual case. The proposal also makes other proposals, including an extended ban on the recognition of marriages between close relatives.
i-55518beec79bda17-436	Madam President, I would like I am quite convinced that today's debate will largely deal with Chapter 6 of the Government's proposal entitled "Exemption from the prohibition of recognition" for exceptional reasons. In my speech, therefore, I will stop at that. In the report, we in the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, have a joint reservation, reservation number 1. It's about the valve for polytoxin. We would like to emphasise that we have the same basic view of polygamy as the majority in committee. Sweden, as a modern and equal country, should have a regulation that makes it clear that polygamy is not accepted. At the same time, a vulnerable party to a polygamous marriage needs to be guaranteed acceptable legal protection. What we have different positions on is how this protection should be designed. It is therefore a question of which technical solution should be chosen in order to achieve the same result. In that part, we note that the Government's proposal for an extremely limited exemption from the ban on recognition is in line with the investigation's proposal for exceptional reasons, i.e. the so-called valve. In addition, most of the referral bodies have supported the proposal or have not objected to it. We also note that the investigation considered the order advocated in the motions, which means that certain legal effects of marriage, such as inheritance, can be recognised for exceptional reasons, rather than recognised as such. For me, it's a technicality. However, the investigation raised a number of objections to such a regime, including practical implementation problems and unclear legislation. That is not something we advocate. Overall, the Government considers that the exemption, for exceptional reasons, represents an appropriate balance between the interest in counteracting polygamy in Sweden and ensuring that a woman in the individual case is not unduly affected. I have no different opinion on this matter. I therefore support reservation number 1.
i-55518beec79bda17-441	Madam President, I would like When the government proposal on the issue of polygamy landed with us some time ago, it received a lot of media attention. My picture was that the opposition took the opportunity to use a slightly charged question to shake up the debate in a dishonest way. Of course, in a society where many people read only the headline, it goes home. The debaters who went into this matter know that. It was easy to get the impression that the government is not really against polygamy but is doing everything it can to open up various valves and exceptions. Nothing can be further from the truth. The government has thus, after examining the issue of polygamy in Sweden, presented the bill Prohibition of recognition of foreign polygamy, etc. That is what it is called, and that is what the government wants to introduce. Previously, the polygamy where any party had a connection to Sweden has not been accepted here. This legislation extends this to people who have no connection with Sweden. If you listen to some debaters you can get the impression that this is a huge problem in Sweden and for Sweden. But for us this is about the women who live in polygamy situations where there is a great risk of inequality. There are clear international guidelines that polygamy should be combated because it consolidates unequal structures. In Sweden and practically the whole world, it's about men taking the right to have several wives – almost never about the reverse. I remember correctly from the investigation, there could be in Tibet that women could be married to two men who were brothers, after one man lost his wife. It's a practical arrangement, I guess. Otherwise, it's all about men with multiple wives. That's what the structures look like. But to have the proportions clear: There are about 150 men who are registered as married to several women in Sweden. Of them, about 40 actually have more than one wife here. In numbers, therefore, it is not so many, but for the woman affected, it does not matter how many others there are. That is why I am very pleased that we are here today to decide on this. Simply put, the proposal says that no marriages that are polygamy will be recognised in Sweden. This solution has been chosen rather than first recognizing them and then dissolving them, for various sensible reasons which are also reflected in the bill. This also makes the law work in the same way as other marriage laws when it comes to marriage we do not recognize, such as marriage to children. What there is then a disagreement about is really how we are to regulate that there are no situations where the weaker party suffers unreasonably much from the fact that the marriage is not recognised. There are no concrete examples to lift, and that is the point. Such situations are very difficult to predict, and that is why the opportunity must exist. The government has also chosen to regulate there in the same way as has been done in the corresponding legislation – by having a so-called valve with the exception of the prohibition of recognition for exceptional reasons. Other parties wrongly want to get it to what I mentioned at the outset: that the government does not really want to ban this. It's nonsense, and it's misleading. To give a previous marriage consequences to protect a weaker party can only be done in the light of the possible situation and its consequences. The parties will not be counted as married otherwise. Other parties also want it to be possible, in some probably very rare cases, to regulate possible economic repercussions. But they want to see another technical solution in the legislation. Of course, you could want that. I see, however, that we want the same thing but have different solutions on the way there. I am guessing that this will crystallise in future speeches. An important point to make is that this will in no way affect the way children have access to their parents. Establishing paternity with or without marriage is no difficulty today. If you count as the father of a child in another country, you will also do so in Sweden. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation 1.
i-55518beec79bda17-455	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 3 on the entile in relation to kinship ties. A marriage is a covenant between two adults. It is a covenant between two people who are not closely related to one another. This is the case in Sweden and in most countries. But there are places where polygamous marriage, or polygamy, is legal and where marriage between close relatives is permitted. This is not the case in Sweden. But until now there has been an opportunity to circumvent Swedish legislation and the view on how many and who can enter into marriage. In the spring of 2020, Parliament issued an announcement to the government that it should return to Parliament as soon as possible with a proposal to strengthen legislation against foreign polygamous marriages. Now, Madam President, the government has delivered a bill to Parliament which is in many ways good, but it has its shortcomings. I think the government and government parties are against polygamous marriages. I do not believe that in Sweden there is anyone with a mind who is in favour of polygamous marriage. We think that is a good thing, and we support that too. As a general rule, polygamous marriages in Sweden are not recognised today if at least one of the parties is a Swedish citizen or was resident in Sweden when the marriage was concluded. On the other hand, polygamous marriages entered into abroad and where at the time none of the parties had been associated with Sweden have been approved by the Swedish Tax Agency when the spouses moved here. We believe that this is wrong. Nor does it agree with the view of society as a whole as to what a marriage should look like. We therefore welcome the Government's proposal that foreign polygamous marriages should not be recognised in Sweden, nor in cases where they were concluded before the legislation enters into force or in cases where none of the parties had any connection to Sweden at the time of marriage. Furthermore, we also welcome the Government's proposal for an extended ban on the recognition of marriages between close relatives by removing the attachment requirement there too. Madam President, I would like What we are not prepared to support and, as the majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties considers wrong, is the government's proposal for an exception. The government proposes that exceptions to the prohibition of recognition of foreign polygamy should be possible when there are serious reasons. This is justified by the fact that situations may arise where it is considered unreasonable to maintain an unconditional prohibition of recognition, for example because it could have an impact on the mutual financial relationship of the spouses with regard to, for example, the right to division, maintenance and inheritance. The exception or valve, as the government calls it, opens the way for the spouses of polygamous marriages to continue to be married in Sweden as well. The government defends itself by the fact that situations may arise in which the weaker party suffers if the marriage is not recognised. We realize that the weaker party needs protection. But that protection is not to continue to be one of several mates in a polygamous marriage. In the 2020 announcement, we can read:- the committee also believes that it must be ensured in an appropriate way that those who are considered to be a weaker party to a polygamous marriage are given acceptable legal protection in this context. ..................................................... We Moderates do not believe that the bill presented by the government today meets the requirements of the announcement, and so is the committee's view. Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier, we also welcome the ban on foreign marriages between close relatives. But here too the government wants exceptions, something that I may find even more remarkable. Here again, the government has not put forward a clear motive for the valve to exist, other than that unforeseen situations may arise. We are also opposed here to the government's valve, with the same arguments as with polygamous marriages. The weaker partner in a marriage between siblings or half-sisters, between an uncle and his niece or between a father and his daughter must be protected by other legislation. A protection that means that a weaker party continues to be considered married to its uncle is not a protection. I believe, Madam President, that most people agree with me.
i-55518beec79bda17-468	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats support all our reservations, but I would like to begin by calling for our and the Christian Democrats' reservation, reservation 2. Today we write in 2021, and we will debate polygamy in the Swedish Parliament. Let it sink in for a few seconds. Poisoning is oppressive for women, and it occurs in principle only in cultures where the human dignity of women is lower than that of men. Nor do women have the opportunity to say yes or no to other women in the same marriage, but the whole is based on a way of thinking where the woman is the property of the man. In these oppressive conditions there are also a number of children. How many children live in polygamy families in Sweden today, no one knows for sure. There are today three clear dividing lines on the issue of polygamy in Sweden. There are two parties that want the polygamy removed. No polygamy should remain in society. I am proud to represent one of these parties – the other is the Christian Democrats. Then there are the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals who think that the polygamy that exists may remain, but no new ones should be added. And then there is the government, the feminist government that one likes to call itself – the government that never misses an opportunity to point out how hostile other women are. The government therefore wants not only to retain all the polygamy that exists in Sweden today, but also to be able to add new ones if there are exceptional reasons for this. And the government won't be content with that. After all, it is written that some polygamy is approved for exceptional reasons in such a way that it can be interpreted as being able to be used on children's marriages. The road here today has been crooked. The issue of polygamy in Sweden is not new, but it was perhaps particularly topical after the wave of immigrants in 2015. Several parties, including my own, pointed out that polygamy should be handled when we investigated child marriage. There was even a majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to proceed with a declaration on it during the last parliamentary term. But then the government and Morgan Johansson invited all parties for some sort of discussion. Yes, it was not all parties; all parties except mine were invited. I want to remember it was a Friday. I could go home to my family myself. I don't know what was said during the meeting. I wasn't invited. But after the meeting, the initiative was withdrawn. Then the women and children who live in these oppressive polygamy were sacrificed. Then it was no longer appropriate to speed up the process. I think the people who sat with them should be ashamed of it. The government had in one stroke delayed legislation against polygamy by several years. Those are facts. Whatever Elin Lundgren says, we could have saved years here. I sat both in the investigation of child marriage and in the investigation of polygamy. If we had already received the assignment in the child marriage investigation, we would have made suggestions when we presented our investigation. It had saved a number of years, because the laws on child marriage have already been implemented. The government seems overly eager to preserve polygamy in Sweden. I regret this, especially for the women and children who live daily in these oppressive environments. It is said that this is a matter of retroactive legislation in defending the preservation of polygamy. But I do not think it is retroactive legislation when you go in and stop the ongoing oppression of women and children. It was not retroactive legislation when child abuse was banned. There was no one who thought that the one who had children would continue to beat them according to the rules that applied earlier. I do not see that there is a huge difference between the oppression suffered by women and children in polygamy. Today, children are forced to grow up in such environments. In fact, in 2021 we should be able to stand up for all women and children in Sweden for real.
i-55518beec79bda17-483	Madam President, I would like Many marriages are the subject of this debate. As some speaker before me said, there is no one who is too polygamy, but it is something that I and many others do not think belongs in Swedish legislation. In a polygamy there is the risk that it is coercion involved and that it is an honor-related coercion. For me and the Center Party, it is important that we live in relationships of free will. I therefore think that the proposal that now exists is a good one, so that we should not approve of many marriages in Sweden regardless of when they have been concluded in another country and regardless of the connection people have to Sweden. But we in the Center Party are also not satisfied with the valve contained in the Government's proposal. We therefore support the announcement that the government needs to come back with suggestions as to how we can ensure that the interests of the weaker party are respected when we do not approve of marriage. This may, for example, be about inheritance and division of property. Madam President, I would like The same applies to family marriages, such as between whole and half siblings. Here, too, we do not approve of them, regardless of the family ties to Sweden, because there is a risk of coercion or honorary oppression in this. But once again it is important to safeguard the interests of the weaker party, so we do not want to see a valve here either. With those words, I would like to express my support for reservation 3.
i-55518beec79bda17-487	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the government's proposal for a ban on foreign polygamy. The idea that a man should have several wives does not match Swedish gender equality, and polygamy should therefore be opposed. A general starting point has long been that a marriage concluded under foreign law should be recognised in Sweden if it is valid in the state where it was concluded. Sweden's recognition of foreign marriages as a starting point is based on the fundamental principle of international private law of respecting the laws of other states. Madam President, I would like The bill proposes a new general rule that foreign polygamy should not be recognised in Sweden. All parties have agreed on the strengthening of legislation but not on the final form. Two main options have been discussed on the issue: non-recognition or forced resolution. Here too, the parties have agreed: It should be a non-recognition of foreign polygamy that should apply. Regardless of the parties' previous connection to Sweden, foreign polygamy should not be recognised in Sweden. The alternative of forced marriages means that they must first be recognised, and they will serve as marriages in Sweden until they are discovered. This means that people could be part of a polygamy for many years before it is noticed and the marriage is dissolved. On the contrary, non-recognition takes effect directly. There is no incentive to hide it, which could otherwise result from a forced resolution procedure. Madam President, I would like However, the position differs between parties when it comes to how to ensure that women do not suffer completely unreasonable consequences of non-recognition. The public legal framework on social security, financial assistance and taxation, for example, is generally individual-based, and the right to different types of aid should therefore not be affected by whether a person is married or not. The requirement for marriage as a prerequisite for benefits and more in different contexts has been gradually removed in Swedish law. But it can be problematic with inheritance, for example, according to the investigation. It can also be difficult to predict all situations where there may be unreasonable consequences for women in the marriages that are not recognized. Unless otherwise noted in the discussions ahead of this Decision. The majority of the committee believes that certain legal effects of marriage should be recognised without recognition of marriage, i.e. that the rules applicable to marriages, for example as regards succession, should be used even if the marriage is not recognised. However, the investigation raised a number of objections to such a scheme. These included practical implementation problems and difficult to understand legislation. In addition, there will be harmonisation with other legislation in the area of marriage, where there is the possibility of exceptions if the consequences are unreasonable. There we believe that exceptions to non-recognition should be made for exceptional reasons. It is therefore a valve that can be used extremely limited.
i-55518beec79bda17-497	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is difficult to have a moral basis or a basis for evaluation to talk about how someone should live their lives. In many parts, we are completely free to make our own decisions. We live and live with the person or persons we want if the other or the others choose it. However, when decisions can affect another person or have a legal basis, we as a society must set the framework that we believe should apply. This applies to child marriage, forced marriage and, for my part, to polygamy. The foundations of the Swedish legal order include the family law principle of equal treatment of spouses and the government's requirement that no one should be disadvantaged on the grounds of their sex, as expressed in the European Convention on Human Rights. I believe that many marriages are contrary to both of these: the principle of family law and the demands of government. Poisoning is illegal and punishable for us Swedes in Sweden. In spite of this, there have been exceptions for polygamous marriages entered into in a country where it is permitted and if the spouses at the beginning of a polygamy had no connection to Sweden. We Christian Democrats have considered this to be a strange order. They have a situation and a value base for those who grew up within Sweden's borders and a value base for those who move here to Sweden. Everyone who is within Sweden's borders should be treated equally, regardless of their background. Now we stand here, very happy, with a bill that means that foreign entered polygamy should not be recognized in Sweden from 1 July 2021. The majority of the committee has also stated that it does not want a valve but wants to find a system in which, without recognising marriage as such under special circumstances, certain legal effects can be recognised. If such a solution, which therefore distinguishes between the question of a person's marital status and the question of the application of certain legal effects, we Christian Democrats are the first to say: that is a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, it is only half a step instead of a full step. The government does not propose that existing polygamy be dissolved and, if necessary, disbanded, which I find very strange. If you consider the polygamy to be wrong, a date cannot determine whether it is right or wrong. That is a fact in today's bill. Of course, people should have the freedom to choose how to live their lives. There are people who want to live in multiple love relationships or sexual relationships with multiple people at the same time. However, that is no reason to make marriage neutral. We Christian Democrats believe that it is important for us as a nation to stand up for the legislation we have and our standards. The principle that the parties to a marriage have the same rights has been the basis for Swedish marriage law for almost 100 years. It is totally unacceptable that polygamy should be allowed to persist only because it has been concluded abroad and before a certain date. This is an inconsistent approach compared to the ban on domestic polygamy. We therefore have a feminist government that believes that from 1 July 2021 there should also be polygamy registered in Sweden, despite the fact that it goes against the public policy of the Swedish legal order. These are the family law principles of equal treatment of spouses and the demands of the government that no one should be disadvantaged on the grounds of their sex, as expressed in the European Convention on Human Rights. I believe that many marriages are contrary to both of these: the principle of family law and the demands of government. The Green Party said in its speech: We shall have a modern and equal country. How is it achieved when you still let there be registered polygamy in Sweden? Does this modern and equal society achieve when we allow polygamy to exist in Sweden? The Social Democrats said that citizens only read headlines, and they think that we in the opposition are dishonest in the debate. It's just nonsense. What should be done in a debate when it is a fact that the Social Democrats want the polygamy in Sweden, because they are still registered and there is a valve? We are talking in the debate about exactly what it is like. The fact that you don't like the debate is quite another matter. Having a different opinion is a completely different matter. But you cannot say that someone else is dishonest when it is a fact that we will have registered polygamy in Sweden even from 1 July 2021. We will still have a valve, which will make it possible to register more polyoxins in Sweden. I cannot understand how one can claim that this is in any way dishonest. It is perhaps difficult to have that debate. We Christian Democrats are calling in a reservation for all existing polygamy to be dissolved and, if necessary, forced to dissolve. The same laws shall apply to native Swedes as to new Swedes. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-55518beec79bda17-510	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 3. There is never any particular reason to recognize either polygamy or marriage between half - sister. In May 2016, a woman on a walk in Hökarängen in Stockholm saw a hand sticking out of the ground. The hand belonged to a murdered girl named Marzieh. The girl had applied for asylum in Sweden in the autumn of 2015. Two months before she was found dead, she had been reported missing without anything being done. Unaccompanied children usually disappear, got the reporter to answer. The police investigation revealed that Marzieh had been brought here by a 20 - year - old man, as his wife's number two. She started a relationship with a boy of her age. The man found out about this and then murdered her. He had the right to have two wives in his life. Instead, when she chose love, she paid with her life. She is one of all the victims we are talking about today: girls and women who are forced into polygamy. Madam President, I would like I told you about Marziehs's fate in this House a year ago, when the Parliament announced to the government that we would not recognise any polygamy in Sweden. I was proud that we had a united parliament, that together we wanted a total ban on polygamy and that together we stood up for Marzieh and other girls and women forced into polygamy. I and the Liberals looked forward to the government returning to Parliament with a total ban. But now we know instead that there is a possibility of a valve. Actually, I'm gonna stay here. I had written a lot of other things in my script, but I am thinking of what the Socialist Member Elin Lundgren said. She talked about that after you went out and said that you will now have a valve, it was kind of like not everyone is against polygamy. Well, I'm absolutely convinced that nobody in here doesn't think polygamy is totally wrong. I also believe that everyone agrees that it violates the lives of girls and women. We also fully agree that it is understood that this is based on patriarchal structures in countries that are undemocratic, where children and women are completely unable to shape and influence their lives. I'm absolutely convinced of that. What makes me sad is that, when I don't think there should be a valve, I get to feel like I'm a populist or in some way want to make simple political points on this. This is not a question of simple political points for me. This is my life. This is what I have devoted my entire professional time to. I have met so many girls and women who have been in this particular situation and who have told me about the great fates of their lives. A woman told me that a fear is the day that you are genitally stunned. The next time is when you're forced into a marriage and you're going to have your first intercourse. Then there is the fear of having a baby and the consequences of being sexually grafted. But it's also shame the day the man chooses to take another wife. For me, this is not about anything else. When I was in the investigation to draft the law on forced marriage, there was a proposal concerning child marriage crimes. We were reassured on that occasion and said that there was no reason to move on with this. The Riksdag decided not to allow some under 18 years of age to get married, and there would be no other consequences. Then came autumn 2015. Marzieh was one of all the girls who came here then, and falls showed that the legislation and the valves that we had led to children living with adults and were systematically subjected to rape. For me, valves are not about me being afraid that a woman who is economically dependent will not be supported. Clearly, if we cancel these marriages, we have a huge obligation to ensure that protection, support and financial compensation are also provided. For me, it's about every girl and every woman in the world knowing that Sweden is a country where we stand up for the rights of all girls and women. Sweden is a country that sends out signals in the world saying that if you want to come here it is important to stand up for these principles. What we are doing in this House, from my point of view, is nothing but an enormous protection of the rights of every individual, every girl, every woman – rights that I was born to have because other generations have fought for them before me.
i-55518beec79bda17-523	Madam President, I would like I can't help asking for a line, because I've heard this story about Marzieh before. Liberals claim to want to help women who are currently in polygamy in Sweden, but that is not the case. After all, the Liberals do not support the reservation put forward by the Christian Democrats and we have tabled, in which we want to abolish the polygamy that exists. I wonder, therefore, whether it is a bit false to stand here and take up a story and in some way try to argue that we want to help these women and then, when it comes to practical policy when we sit in the Committee on Civil Liberties and discuss it here, are not prepared to stand up for the women who are in polygamy in Sweden today. These may continue to be polygamy. You don't want to set an end date. You don't want to solve the situation for Marzieh. In the world of Liberals there will be children in Sweden in the 2020s growing up in polygamy. That will be the case because the Liberals do not want to support such a thing. Madam President, I would like The Liberals are also part of the government foundation and have highlighted Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. I therefore think that the Liberals bear a very great responsibility for the fact that polygamy continues to exist, and I just wonder why the Liberals did not support a final date for polygamy in Sweden.
i-55518beec79bda17-527	Madam President, I would like I know what we stand for, and I know what job we're doing. I also know that it is important not to impose the standard of not having retroactive legislation. Another thing is that what we're talking about here are the recognized polygamous marriages. What the Liberals have done is to develop a suburban lift that deals with everything from housing issues to issues of democracy, gender equality and values. The most important thing now is that we have a clear voice out there that tells all the women who live in polygamous marriages that are not registered that divorce, whether the marriages are registered or not, should be the right of every individual. For this reason, I would like to say that I am proud of the work that the Liberals have systematically carried out since Sabuni as Minister put these questions on the map. It does not matter what Mr Eskilandersson says; I know what we have done, I know what we stand for and I know what we will do. To end up in the marriages that are registered and think that this would be the solution to everything I don't believe in. I have full respect for the fact that Mikael Eskilandersson believes that this is the solution, but the Liberals want to work systematically over time by taking a stand on these issues and, as most recently, for example, press for and propose an investigation to ban cousin marriages. There's so much more to do. It is not enough to believe that retroactive legislation will bring these marriages to an end. But every woman in a marriage, polygamous or not, should know that in Sweden there is the right to leave this marriage.
i-55518beec79bda17-531	Madam President, I would like I'm glad Juno Blom knows what she stands for. However, she should bear in mind that the Liberals are actually saying that Marzieh should remain in her polygamy, because they do not want to go in and dissolve it. You say it wouldn't help, but of course it would help in its own way. At the very least, it would be a much clearer signal to say that no polygamy should occur in Sweden. That would be a much clearer signal than saying that the polygamy that exists should be allowed to remain. That would be a clear signal to all the children who do not grow up under such conditions, and it would also be a very clear signal to the outside world that we do not accept polygamy. In fact, however, the Liberals accept polygamy. In fact, the Liberals say that the polygamy that exists should remain. I cannot support a system that means that we will have polygamy in Sweden for the foreseeable future. So we are going to have polygamy throughout the 2020s and 2030s. Children should continue to grow up under these conditions, and children should continue to see it as normal that their father has several wives. This is to be done in Sweden. No. I cannot accept such a system, Madam President.
i-55518beec79bda17-534	Madam President, I would like It is clear that there are children, women and men who have been forced into context against their will, and it would be completely wrong of me to say that I do not understand every woman who can feel, even if the right is here, that the possibility of enjoying this right does not exist. But I do not believe that the gain of establishing a law and retroactively dissolving all these marriages, weighed against breaking patterns in the possible structure, is worth enough. I also know that the work that is going on at all times systematically being out to meet, inform, describe and talk to people is what will really bring about change in the long term. I share Mikael Eskilandersson's view of every person who has been forced to marry more than one person, or one person, against his will. I would like to dissolve all those marriages too, but it would not be possible to go around and dissolve all the marriages that people were forced into before we decided on that legislation. There are some things that are difficult to implement but where clarity is clear on our part. I can say one thing: if I had the power to decide, this legislation would have been in place a long time ago. I have full respect for the fact that Mr Eskilandersson feels that this would solve the problem. I believe that there is a palette of different measures that need to be taken, and I am prepared to take everyone to give every girl and woman the rights and opportunities they have – in addition to going into retroactive legislation. You have to respect me, and I have respect for you.
i-55518beec79bda17-540	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an interesting debate on these issues so far. I will talk about polygamy and the proposal that has been put forward to abolish their recognition. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to broaden the debate a little to include gender equality and the repression of honour more generally. That is exactly what this relates to, and I would therefore like to take the broader perspective. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. It shows almost all the international evaluations. We'll be proud of that. But we should also know that it is not a coincidence that this is the case but that it is the result of decades of gender equality reforms where Sweden has gradually broken up from old conservative and reactionary values that have characterized our society for a long time. Instead, Sweden has become one of the most progressive and modern countries in the world. Special taxation, the world's most generous parental insurance, the world's most extended childcare facilities and maximum rates of childcare are examples of reforms that have paved the way for a development in which more and more women have achieved independence and self-determination rather than simply being regarded as an appendage to men. These are reforms that have been pushed forward by social democrats and by other progressive forces, not least by many liberals, to advance positions gradually to change attitudes on these important issues. Many of the reforms were controversial when they were carried out, and many of them were opposed by the Right in different ways, but eventually they were forced reluctantly to accept them. Our starting point is that real equality can only be achieved if there is economic equality, that is, both men and women can support themselves. Education and work should be the path to independence and liberation, whether you are a man or a woman, regardless of ethnicity or religion. Therefore, the Social Democratic welfare state is one of the world's most successful gender equality projects, and therefore Sweden now has the EU's highest female employment rate. Nowhere else in the EU do women have such a great opportunity to support themselves and thus also to achieve real independence. In this case, the economy is fundamental to real equality. But we also know that over the years it has not only been about economic issues but that it has also been about valuation issues and a valuation struggle. It has been a struggle against the reactionary and patriarchal values of the past. We are talking today about polygamy. We have never had polygamy in Sweden, I dare say. But arranged marriages have taken place, especially in the upper classes of society, in the royal houses, in the nobility, and in the richer families. There were arranged marriages rather than exceptions, a means of achieving political and economic benefits for the family. It was common in the upper classes of society. In the working class that I come from, it wasn't that common. There wasn't much property or titles to play with. But in the upper classes of society, arranged marriages were quite common. In practice, they were forced marriages; in practice, youths were forced into marriage under the threat that they would otherwise be frozen out of their families. If we go back in time in Sweden, we have also had children's marriages. I also think that we should have that perspective in the debate. We have also had honorary cultures in Sweden – you should also know that – and they are not so far back in time. We don't have to go back so many generations until we end up at a time when maids had to kneel on a horstool at the front of the church and be ashamed of the congregation after having had children out of wedlock. The priest was not allowed to take such women in hand. There was an explicit rule about it. This was the case in old Sweden: class oppression and sexual oppression that went hand in hand. That culture of honor was maintained by the authorities of that time, namely the church and the state. We, too, who have our roots in the old poor Sweden and the old state society, know that. When I draw such historical parallels, I do not do so in order to relativise, which one or another can have, but I do so to take another point, namely that this can change. If you decide to fight the old patriarchal structures, you can also achieve change. If we could combat this in the past, we can also fight it today. My party, the Social Democrats, has always been a sworn opponent of the old conservative, reactionary, patriarchal and oppressive values. That oppression must be combated, and that applies entirely regardless of which class of society maintains them and whatever ethnicity, culture, or religion they have that exerts oppression. There is no room for compromise here. It is precisely about all people in Sweden developing as free and independent individuals. That is precisely why, during our reign, we have taken a strong stand against the oppression of honour. Not only have we talked about it, as some parties have, but we have actually done it for real. We extended the criminalization of the child marriage crime. We tightened the penalties for crimes committed with honorary motives. We introduced the possibility of imposing an exit ban if a child is at risk of being taken abroad for the purpose of marriage or genital mutilation. This exit ban has already been applied at least 25 times, although it has been in force for less than a year. We have ensured that the police have been able to recruit 350 new investigators with a particular focus on crimes in close relationships, men's violence against women and honour crimes. We have abolished the possibility of having a child marriage recognised in Sweden. Today, we are taking another step by abolishing the possibility of having foreign polygamy recognised in Sweden. This is one of those issues where you really wonder why it hasn't happened in the past-- which many have been into. It is obvious, of course, that polygamy has no place in an equal and modern society. Bigami has long been criminalized in Sweden. Nevertheless, there have been cases where the Swedish Tax Agency has registered several spouses for the same man when the marriages have been concluded abroad and these are people who have previously had no connection to Sweden. The fact that this has been done is because the main rule of civil law is that one country should recognise the legal decisions of other countries, unless they conflict with the public policy of our legal system, which, in a fine French word, is called a public order. It is the interpretation of what is word more public that has been unclear, and we are now getting that out. The polygamy will no longer be recognised in Sweden. The IRS will no longer register several wives of a man regardless of the marriage certificate presented. They are no longer accepted in Sweden. SD's assertions that this will continue are simply not true. That is not what the proposal looks like. This is where we go further than the investigation. The investigation suggested that the new ban should apply only to marriages concluded after the entry into force of the law, but then it would take decades for the ban to have an impact. Instead, the Government's proposal is that the ban should apply to everyone who comes to Sweden after the date of entry into force regardless of when the marriage has been concluded. This is a major change in which we have listened to the consultation bodies. With this we would think that the matter is clear, that the discussion is closed. However, we have heard in the debate that the opposition has had the impression that we are not achieving the objectives of the proposals we are now putting forward. It is claimed that there is an exception which means that we will still recognise polygamy. I say it is a false campaign, and I say that the opposition boils soup on a nail. Yes, there is an exception, but this does not mean that polygamy as such can be recognised in the future, but it says that the legal effects of such a marriage should be recognised if there are exceptional circumstances, especially when it comes to things that speak in the woman's favour. The background is that when we do not recognize these marriages, it is above all over the woman in various ways. She loses the right to divorce and thus the right to division, and she loses the right to inheritance after the man. In Sweden she has never been married and can therefore not divorce or inherit. It also affects the joint children, because if the parents are not considered married, the father does not automatically have joint custody. These are the necessary consequences of not recognizing marriage, and they must all understand and be aware of that. In the vast majority of cases, this can only be accepted. However, there may be cases where the consequences for the woman can be totally unreasonable if, for example, she cannot claim part of the inheritance or the dwelling. Therefore, it should be possible for a court to recognise, not the polygamy itself, but certain legal effects of it if the negative consequences for the woman would be completely unreasonable. But the bar for this is very high because there must be exceptional reasons. This opt-out already applies to the other grounds for refusal – child marriages, forced marriages, proxy marriages and family marriages – and the opposition had no objection to this when that framework was adopted, which happened only the other year. One therefore wonders why the opposition suddenly has objections now. This is also the order that exists in the rest of the Nordic countries. In Norway and Denmark there are corresponding exceptions and arrangements. Sometimes reference is made to France, I have seen it in the debate, and it does not recognise polygamy. That's the way it is. However, there is also an exception for legal effects, and it is actually broader than what we are now proposing. A wife in a second marriage in France may be entitled to life insurance, inheritance and social security benefits from the husband even though the marriage is not recognized. This derogation is therefore greater than in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, because, as I have said, this requires exceptional reasons. I therefore say that the opposition has basically got this wrong, and I actually think that it really knows about it. But you go anyway, because you know this is complicated legislation. Just like Elin Lundgren, it is assumed that I will not be able to explain this in 30 seconds in Aktuellt. You can't always do that. So there it is sometimes in politics, that is, the opposition running a game like this and presenting things in a way that is not right. It's not the first time, it's not the last time – but what stands out a little and that I've reacted to is the high tone we've had above all on social media. There has not been much of it in this House today, but we saw it above all on social media a few months ago. I've been thinking a little extra about that. What motivates this high tone? I think it is simply the bad conscience that speaks. The bourgeois parties know very well that they themselves did nothing against crimes of honour and oppression of honour, even though they sat on the government for eight years. The Moderates had the Ministry of Justice, and the Christian Democrats were in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Yet nothing happened during the alliance years in relation to these crimes – no punitive measures, no stop to child marriage, no stop to polygamy, no exit bans and no special police investigators. Nothing of that kind was done. On the contrary, almost everything that has been done against honour crimes in terms of legislation has been done by this government. It must be difficult to digest for parts of the opposition, and so they choose instead to try to find conflicts where there are no conflicts. As far as I am concerned, it may be less important, because the important thing is for us to make a change. With this legislation, we are taking another step in the fight for greater equality for all, no matter where you come from, and against these old, conservative and reactionary patriarchal values. In that case, it's good enough.
i-55518beec79bda17-568	Madam President, I would like What I was going to ask at the outset is, of course, why it took so long and why polygamy was not included in the child marriage investigation. Morgan Johansson was also in her speech on several other types of marriage, such as forced marriages and so on. It would have been perfectly natural to include this in the child marriage investigation, and then we would have saved a couple of years instead of delaying it further. But I wasn't invited that Friday, and it would be interesting to know what was actually said then and why you suddenly thought that polygamy was not so urgent. Morgan Johansson accused me of going with untruth when I said that polygamy should be in Sweden, that is, continue to be a part of Swedish society, and that children should grow up in polygamy environments – in oppressive constellations that the government has approved. I say, however, that it is not a lie at all. After all, the polygamy that remains is allowed, and that means that children will continue to live in these polygamy. That means we have a generation of children growing up in that kind of environment. There may not be many – no one can really answer how many there are – but there are people who will grow up in oppressive polygamy environments. How can you develop into a free individual if you grow up in that kind of environment – if we now think it's important that people grow up in freedom? Actually, I think so. I think we should get this kind of marriage out of Sweden. I think we should set a deadline and say that from that date we will abolish all polygamy. I do not think it is retroactive; on the contrary, people are then given the opportunity to plan. If you put that date one or two years ahead of time, those who are married to several people are allowed to plan.
i-55518beec79bda17-571	Madam President, I would like Like many people, we feel that it is a much better way to avoid polygamy. What I reacted to was that Mikael Eskilandersson said that more polygamy will now be added, and that is wrong. That's exactly what we're stopping now. The IRS will not register any more polygamy. That's what we're putting an end to. Then he goes all the way to forced resolution. As someone was in the past, this means that you must first recognize the marriage and then have a legal process of dissolving it and forcing a divorce. That's going very far, I mean. If so, it is better that we use this model, which now also has the support of Parliament in this part. What was wrong, however, was what Mikael Eskilandersson said about the fact that more of these marriages will be added. That's not going to happen. I still react to what the Swedish Democrats Mikael Eskilandersson says here, because they try to portray it as protecting these women. You don't do that at all. It is rather the opposite: If Mikael Eskilandersson and SD had been allowed to decide, these women would never have been here in Sweden. They had never been granted asylum status. If Mikael Eskilandersson and SD are allowed to decide, these women will also be thrown out of Sweden. That, of course, is SD's policy on migration – a mass deportation policy. The fact that these women have been allowed to come to Sweden and that they have the opportunity to stay here gives them the chance to get out of this oppression. When Mikael Eskilandersson and his party push for these women to actually be thrown out, he just shows that he doesn't give a damn about them. Instead, he tries to score other political points.
i-55518beec79bda17-576	Madam President, I would like As usual, this is nonsense. We have no proposals to throw people out against their will, unless we talk about criminals or other people who do not have a residence permit. I would like to come back to what the issue is actually about, that is, the polygamy that will continue to exist in Sweden. Morgan Johansson is referring to a strange argument that in that case you must first acknowledge them. But we have admitted these polygamy; according to the Swedish Tax Agency's register, there is a bunch of polygamy. They are recognized today. So I do not quite understand what Morgan Johansson means by the fact that we must first recognise the polygamy. The problem is, they're here today. People live in polygamy in Sweden today, 2021. That it has become as it has become is in itself completely insane in my world. Of course you should have put your foot down a lot of years ago. Anyone who wants to know what a Swedish democratic society had looked like may be able to look at Denmark, for example, where the Danish People's Party has gained quite a lot of influence. It is not that this means that you are beginning to make some major revolutions, but it is clear that you are getting a different direction on politics. However, we must relate to the reality that exists in Sweden today. So, as Sweden looks today, Morgan Johansson thinks that we should go into the 20th century with the polygamy, which we have acknowledged, and that they should remain – there should be no end date for when the polygamy should be away from Swedish society. I would have liked to set an end date after which we should not have any polygamy in Sweden.
i-55518beec79bda17-581	Madam President, I would like It is funny that Mikael Eskilandersson mentions Denmark. Denmark has the regulatory framework that we are now about to get in Sweden, with the fact that it does not recognise the polygamy and with the valve that we have discussed and very serious reasons. In fact, Denmark has exactly the legislation that Mikael Eskilandersson opposes here; it might have some thought about it. It is a big step to go in and forcibly dissolve marriages and carry out forced divorces with retroactive legislation. We have not been prepared to go that far. However, we have gone further than the investigation. The investigation wanted only the first marriage that took place after the law came into force to be covered, but we are now saying that this will apply from the moment you come to Sweden. It is in this situation that this is not recognised. We believe that this is a better solution. Mikael Eskilandersson tries to escape from the Swedish Democrats' overall migration policy. It's actually exactly what I'm saying: if SD had been left to decide, these women would never have a chance to get out of their oppression, because they would never have been here. The gate had been closed. The Swedish Democrats are now pushing for more of the refugees who have been allowed to come to Sweden not to receive extended residence permits but to be thrown out. This would, of course, be absolutely devastating for many of the women who, perhaps for the first time in their lives, have been able to get into the labour market and live normal Western lives. That they should be thrown back to their home countries is what the Swedish democrats basically stand for, and I think that Mikael Eskilandersson must also stand for in a debate like this.
i-55518beec79bda17-586	Madam President, I would like Today's bill is very much the result of an announcement made by the Swedish Parliament in 2020. I would like to start by thanking the government for actually delivering for once on the basis of an announcement, while we still remember that we have made an announcement. In this way, I think today's debate is a step in the right direction, and I would like to thank Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson for that. I understand that the Minister of Justice is concerned that he will have to stand on the news and try to explain this in 30 seconds, because that is absolutely impossible. I do not think the Minister for Justice himself is quite aware of what he has introduced. That is why I would like to ask you a brief question. Many marriages as such will not be recognised, we have heard here today. We all think this is a good thing. But special reasons can come in. Then a valve will be applied, and marriage will have certain legal effects. My brief question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is: Will the people still be married? Are they divorced? Is the marriage, or are the spouses then free to marry new people here in Sweden?
i-55518beec79bda17-589	Madam President, I would like It is good if Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby knows not only what proposals we from the government are making, but also what proposals she herself has been involved in deciding on in the past. This is, after all, exactly the same order as for the other grounds for refusal, i.e. child marriage, forced marriage, and proxy marriages. Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby has had no objection whatsoever to them, but it is only in this case that she objects. It is also exactly the same approach that exists in both Norway and Denmark. The valve with special reasons is narrower than it is in France. It's about legal effects. Since we have not recognized marriage, the people in Sweden's eyes have never been married, and thus they are, of course, free to marry others. They've never been married when we don't recognize the marriage. But when it comes to being able to claim an inheritance or a part of a dwelling, for example, there may be individual situations where it is reasonable to say: Yes, perhaps you should. In such a situation, however, it may be examined on a case-by-case basis. It is exactly the same order that exists for the other grounds of refusal. My counter-question to Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby is: If you are now reacting to this, why did you not react to the other grounds for refusal? And why do you want us to have a different order from what they have in Norway and Denmark?
i-55518beec79bda17-593	Madam President, I would like I'm guessing that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson knows where I come from. I still have a lot of bands to Norway and I like Norway very much, but that doesn't mean that I think that Sweden should do everything that Norway does. There is much that Sweden actually does better than Norway. Did the Attorney General answer my question? Can the husbands marry whom they want if there are special reasons? The government does not even want to go into particular reasons, because it believes that the courts should decide this. So we do not even know what extraordinary reasons are. Are the spouses still married if special reasons arise and the valve enters, or can they marry someone else when they come here? I would like a brief answer to this question. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson asked me why we do not have any views on the other areas. I want Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson to pay attention to Moderate reservation 3, about the valve in question and the kinship ties. There, too, it is said that exceptional reasons should enable the valve to enter. I'm still saying that the best solution for a girl who's married to her uncle is that she's never married to her uncle.
i-55518beec79bda17-598	Madam President, I would like Since Sweden does not recognise that they are married, they are of course free to marry whoever they want; that is the basis. The answer to this question is: Yes, it is. If a family comes here and the man says he has two wives and he wants to register both of them with the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency will say no – they won't accept that. Then you have to solve the matter internally, but we will only book a spouse. Of course, the other, who is not then considered married to the man in question, is free to marry whoever she wants, for we do not recognize that marriage. That's how it's gonna work. The main reasons are in order, possibly in retrospect, to be able to claim, for example. If a woman wants to claim a dwelling or an inheritance – it can be a long time afterwards – a court should be able to decide whether she should still be entitled to a part of the estate or inheritance. We are not saying that this must be the case in every context; it is not an unconditional right to the nest. However, if one can show that there are exceptional reasons and that this speaks in favour of the woman, the court should be able to decide on it. That's the answer to that question. However, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby did not answer my question as to why the Moderates had no objection to the other grounds for refusal – child marriage, forced marriage and proxy marriages – where the arrangement is exactly the same. This is, as I said, the order that exists both in Norway and in Denmark, and, as I understand it, it works well there. With regard to the particular reasons for the other forms of marriage – in the case of child or forced marriages – this has never actually been applied, which is a sign of the narrowness of this exception. The rib is very high, and the space here is very narrow.
i-55518beec79bda17-605	Madam President, I would like The Government of Morgan Johansson said that the Alliance has done nothing about the work against honour violence. In fact, I am not going to continue to discuss the issue of bigami or polygamy, which we have debated today. For me, it is important as politicians to stick to what is right and right. And I have to say that as far as my cooperation with Minister Morgan Johansson is concerned, I have nothing to complain about. Even in my previous role, when I coordinated the work against honour violence and I was not a politician, there was a response box with you all the time. It can easily be that you think everyone in the government is like you, but unfortunately that's not the case. When I received the position of coordinator for the national work against honour violence and repression in 2006, it was the Social Democrats who ruled. They called honour violence so-called honor-related violence and oppression. It was often a great confusion linked to this, but it may not have been blamed for that. Then came Nyamko Sabuni as Minister of State. You can ask any girl or guy who lived in that vulnerability and felt that they had been overlooked, and they would say that there was a revolution when she got on the track, as we who worked with the questions felt. For example, we received the investigation into the legislation on forced marriages, which is behind the work against genital mutilation. We got the report that young people get married against their will. There are statistics that are still used for the assignments that the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs have given to the National Board of Health and Welfare but which they have not been able to carry out. There is no one in this House who has done enough. But now I am a politician myself and can say that Minister Morgan Johansson listens and does good things, but otherwise I do not blow over the speed of work among other ministers, but I have a lot to add. I struggle and work every day to ensure that the reforms that are decided are put in place.
i-55518beec79bda17-610	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have a very good cooperation. I'd really like to say that. And in much of what has been done in recent years, during our term of office, the Liberals and not least Juno Blom have been hugely important. That's just the way it is. What I said was that not much happened during the alliance years, but that most of it has happened in recent years. I particularly pointed out the Moderates and the KD, who were in two of the departments that were important in this context, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs. There I can see that, after all, not so much has happened in these years. Everything that we have got through in criminal policy, such as the penalty for honour crimes, the criminal policy programme on which we went to elections, the ban on exit, the child marriage crime and, as we are now about to introduce, a special offence is what is happening now. Sometimes I get frustrated that things can take a very long time. But sometimes I also get frustrated that I get things put on that are not true. When I myself, and not least we together, drive forward new reforms, I still hear from some of the right-wing opposition here that nothing is happening, that we have done nothing and so on. Then sometimes I have to be allowed to say, stop and prove it! Is there any government that has done more than this government has done? As I just expressed in the speaker's chair, I believe that the high tone in this debate from some quarters is a bit of a bad conscience. You probably understand that you should have done more in your years, and then you try to frame the government instead so that we would not do anything. But that's a political game. As a matter of fact, we need to move forward together on these issues as much as we can.
i-4KUUJaRJ3G8XMoKZWCqYrw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Johansson, for your answer! That's exactly how it is. In the legislative field, major changes have taken place. As I have both said publicly and say here today, I really think we have achieved a great deal. Making laws, with all due respect for your being Minister of Justice, is in a way the easiest part. To make sure that the whole system is connected, much more is needed. Then a advice, which I have also put forward internally, is that the Minister for Gender Equality should take overall responsibility. But even I, who are part of this cooperation, cannot find a simple description of what is being done in areas other than the area for which Minister Johansson is responsible. In a government, you can work in different ways, but all parts must be connected. The work that Nyamko Sabuni introduced gave us completely different opportunities to work with the national competence team. Although she was not Minister of Justice, she was also behind the legislation on forced marriage, which has been a basis for change. Her proposal was already then to introduce a child-marriage crime, on which this House was not prepared to take a decision. It is precisely a matter of taking a concerted approach to the matter. In Sweden, these issues are today at the Minister for Gender Equality. But what we are talking about here is serious crime. Certainly, prevention is a gender equality effort that is incredibly important every day, but once such a crime has occurred, it is serious crime. When it comes to getting weight on these issues, I have to say that Nyamko Sabuni was quite excellent in his work. If you'd forgotten, I just wanted to tell you.
i-55518beec79bda17-620	Madam President, I would like No, I have absolutely no criticism of Nyamko Sabuni for the job she did, but my criticism is that there was very little about the legislative issues. Then the criticism is directed above all against the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the areas of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Nyamko Sabuni really highlighted these issues. But they must also have an impact in the government so that they are implemented. The legislation on marital status was part of it. Illegal coercion was already criminalized, but it just broke out and specified marital coercion. I guess that's an important mark. Then we have criminal law here. I hope that we will be able to take the next step towards a special offence of honour. I think that is important, because then we will be able to work in exactly the same way as we once did with women's peace legislation 20 years ago, i.e. to be able to put together a range of different harassments and crimes that have lower criminal value as individual crimes. When you put them together and see it systematically, you can instead judge according to a special honorary offence, and then you get the penalty scale up properly. I hope that together we will be able to come up with a good proposal during the autumn to join the Riksdag. As I said, our cooperation continues to work very well. But when other parties accuse me or us of not doing anything, sometimes I have to point back and say: Wait a minute, because it is in fact in these years that really big things have happened in this area. We will continue to push forward such reforms.
i-55518beec79bda17-625	Madam President, I would like The devil's in the details. That is what the proverb says, but let me come back to it. First of all, let me say that in essence, we moderates think that the Government's proposal for more effective bankruptcy management is a good one. It will modernise and facilitate processes both for creditors who want to be paid faster and for debtors who do not get caught up in unnecessarily long bankruptcies. That all communication can be done digitally and that the application can be signed electronically are things that should be self-evident in 2021. It might be good to retrace what a bankruptcy actually is. It is when a person, legally or physically, can no longer pay his debts but is insolvent. The remaining assets shall then be apportioned among the creditors in an orderly manner. Although bankruptcies are rarely fun to go through, they are necessary to enable economic risk-taking. It is essential that there are orderly forms of what happens if the business movement no longer behaves. An effective bankruptcy instrument is to the benefit of both the bankrupt and the creditors. It also has a preventive effect on risk-taking if bankruptcy management is effective. Effective bankruptcy management enables the market economy as a whole to become more efficient. More entrepreneurs dare to test their wings, and more dare to lend money to business initiatives. Madam President, I would like As I said, the devil sits in the details. The Government proposes that the compulsory oath in the district court be abolished and replaced by the debtor confirming in writing the estate inventory of the insolvency administrator. We Moderates basically have nothing against that. However, we have comments on the consequences of this in terms of criminal liability. Under the new regime, it will continue to be a criminal offence to deliberately enter incorrect information in a estate inventory. However, a deliberately incorrect information given under oath in a court of law is today deemed to be more serious than deliberately providing incorrect information in a written confirmation. In their referrals, the Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Financial Crimes Authority have both warned of the consequences of these proposals in terms of criminal liability. The authorities state in their referrals that there should be no difference in criminal liability depending on whether the confirmation is made in court or in writing to the administrator. We Moderates agree with this criticism. Therefore, the provisions of the Criminal Code should be amended in such a way that written confirmation of the estate inventory in criminal matters is treated as an oath in the district court. As I said, the devil sits in the details. Surely it cannot be the government's intention with these changes to reduce the penalty for those who deliberately lie in a estate inventory. I believe and hope not. Instead, I think it is about what is called bad governance in English, which is bad basic work by the government. Punishment is a consequence that the investigation did not foresee and that the government has not been able to remedy. The argument put forward in the motion that a measure of impunity cannot be presumed to lead to a greater disclosure of incorrect information is strange, as is the fact that there are few cases. Even the government's argument that a general difference in punishment should be seen if a person provides incorrect information in a written certificate or in a performance statement is strange. After all, the government still believes that the written certificate should have the same weight as a performance in all other contexts. I do not believe that the parliamentary parties want to see a penalty for those who lie in bankruptcy. Then we have to listen to the District Attorney's Office and the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency and review the Code of Criminal Procedure. Or do the government parties actually want to ease the punishment for those who lie in bankruptcy in order to mislead creditors? If so, it would be deeply unfortunate and would fundamentally damage the purpose of the bill to make bankruptcy management more effective. I request approval of the Moderate reservation 1.
i-MXQhWyKVrtcqtHdLUTdoLT	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 2 in paragraph 3 of the report. More effective bankruptcy management is stated in the title, and it may not attract too many people's interests. However, this is important, and when bankruptcies occur, the handling needs to be effective for both debtors and creditors and for companies to be restarted. We can see that this is a policy area in which we agree on many points regardless of political party. This applies, for example, to legislative amendments aimed precisely at streamlining and also modernising the bankruptcy procedure. This means, among other things, that all written communication in bankruptcy proceedings should be possible in digital form. In this area too, the pandemic reminds us that we need to take action quite urgently. According to the Center Party, a step in the right direction is to replace the mandatory oath meeting at the district court with the debtor confirming the estate inventory in writing, of course with correct information, at a meeting of the receiver. In this way, we can better use the resources of the courts for other important cases. We shall, of course, simplify and streamline what we can, but it is also essential that it becomes legal certainty. In the case of signature, for example, advanced electronic signature should therefore be used. Madam President, I would like A few years ago, we were able to read in the media how a CEO of a large Swedish company got its identity hijacked and set in personal bankruptcy after a false application had been submitted by a fraudster. Such things, of course, have devastating consequences for the individual. If you are put into personal bankruptcy, you get your assets frozen, and if you are CEO or have company board assignments, the Swedish Companies Registration Office removes one from the board of directors. So the company will be left without a CEO. This is being dealt with urgently, which is a good thing. But we need to get rid of this possibility or at least make it harder for an unauthorized person to get an application through. Anyone affected by this will be professionally deprived of their powers. What happens in private can't be imagined if you haven't been there. We also know that identity creations are increasing, although perhaps not exactly CEOs are affected to some extent. We should therefore make it more difficult to implement this, and that cannot be impossible in the current situation when digital solutions are available. Today's control of the application for personal bankruptcy is not sufficiently extensive, especially in view of the serious consequences of personal bankruptcy. It is therefore important that we have a system in place in which the district courts of the country are given the task of verifying, when applying for personal bankruptcy, whether there is a police report on hijacked identity. Madam President, I would like I therefore support reservation 2 in the report, which includes the motion by Jonny Cato, the Center Party, which deals with increased control when applying for personal bankruptcy.
i-55518beec79bda17-650	Madam President, I would like Bankruptcy is extremely felt whether it affects a company or an individual. Then it is important that the bankruptcy process is clear, simple and adapted to the current situation. As a private person, you should understand what is happening and what is happening, and as a company it should also be easy to follow the process. The statistics show that in the full year 2020 6,700 companies were declared bankrupt, and there were about the same number in 2019. Most bankruptcies occur in the construction industry and in law and economics. Then you might wonder if 6,700 companies that go bankrupt are very or little. In terms of the number of companies registered in Sweden, which is about 1.2 million, it may not feel like a huge amount of bankruptcies. However, it should be borne in mind that the bankruptcy of these 6,700 companies affects not only the company but also suppliers, banks and employees. This means that business failures can have major consequences for others around. The bankruptcy process needs to be developed and streamlined to meet the demands of society and industry. The fact that we are becoming increasingly digital must also be taken on board in this part, and I think that the report is good on this point, that is to say that the digital is having an impact. We believe that it is positive that a system is now being introduced whereby a bankruptcy application can be filed digitally and signed with an electronic signature. This means that higher requirements are actually imposed on the identification of the applicant. We welcome this and support that part of the government's legislative proposals. However, we do not believe that that is enough, but, like the Center Party, we believe that we need to be able to strengthen identity in other ways. We also welcome the replacement of the mandatory oath meeting of the district court by a system whereby the debtor confirms the estate inventory in writing at a meeting of the insolvency administrator. Taking up the time of the courts with this, in these times when we need their work in other ways, I think is misleading. I think the receiver can handle this. I believe that the liquidator is also the one who can verify whether or not the information provided is actually correct. I think it makes sense to do that. I think it simplifies the process normally. It is hard enough for the person affected to meet with the receiver and explain what it actually looks like and what assets and liabilities are in the company. As I said, in a few cases there are false claims for bankruptcy. I believe that this points to a hole in the practice of the Court of Justice, which does not contact the representatives of the company concerned before deciding on insolvency administrators. You get an application, you check and verify it in the way you can and you make a decision about the receiver. What about the company? Actually, it's the receiver who manages the company. This could have disastrous consequences for a company. Of course, such errors can change and be removed. It does not have to be that far-reaching consequences, but if it takes time, it may be. I therefore believe that further measures are needed to prevent the false bankruptcy claims that still exist. It would be quite easy for the court to check with the chairman of the board or with someone on the company's board if the bankruptcy application comes from the company itself. In fact, in the case of legal persons as public limited liability companies, a decision by the court ordering the company to go bankrupt may be required. It is not often you ask a company for bankruptcy directly, but you do a balance sheet before. You also make a second balance sheet, i.e. you make a decision that it does not work. We believe that the government should initiate a review of the legislation. The district court should be able to verify in such a way that the question is sent back to the company and says: Is it true you've filed the application? This is in order to eliminate the possibility of falsification of bankruptcy claims. I therefore support reservation number 2.
i-55518beec79bda17-661	Madam President, I would like The famous economist Joseph Schumpeter described a concept that he called creative destruction. He described with this concept how an economy is driven forward by technological development and innovation. Indeed, it is in the nature of the market economy that those who fail to cope with competition should be eliminated. But it is replaced by something new and better. In this way, small and large steps are constantly being taken to improve efficiency. It is, as Schumpeter's concept says, a creative and destructive process. Supporting structures that promote innovation and development are therefore needed. But there is also a need for care structures that protect workers, families, entrepreneurs and communities from the destructive force. In this context, the welfare state is an ingenious idea. Social insurance and social security systems, collective savings and general welfare services create secure and innovative individuals and communities. It is not for nothing that Sweden, year after year, tops the world index for innovation and patent applications. But the back of this is of course that companies fail. It is not always because of technological advances or innovations that this happens. There may be personal reasons or changes in market conditions underlying the bankruptcy. But bankruptcies are going to happen. Basically, what has been said is nothing negative if they do not happen too often or become too many for a short time. If you just manage the bankruptcies smoothly and effectively, it will ultimately benefit society. That is why an effective bankruptcy procedure is extremely important. Society is digitising at a rapid pace. The government therefore wants more bankruptcy proceedings to be conducted digitally. It should therefore be possible to apply for bankruptcy with a digital signature. In addition, any communication regarding bankruptcy should be able to be handled digitally. One of the major changes proposed by the government in the bill is to replace the mandatory oath meeting in the district court with a system whereby the debtor confirms the estate inventory in writing at a meeting of the insolvency administrator. The debtor shall confirm by such signature, on his honour, the accuracy of the record of assets, liabilities and accounting information. In addition, proposals are also made aimed at streamlining the bankruptcy procedure with regard to the debtor's accounting documents, the administrator's accounts and the payment of dividends to creditors. The government is well aware that there are more parts of the bankruptcy procedure that can be more effective, and the work of course does not end with this bill. However, it is gratifying that the Government is delivering these important proposals and that the Riksdag supports the proposal. It creates better conditions for continuing the transformation of our society that builds our prosperity and creates resources for our important well-being. It creates a stronger society and also a safer Sweden.
i-55518beec79bda17-668	Madam President, I would like As I stated in my main speech, we moderates are critical of the fact that the government's proposal will now ease the penalty if the debtor is deliberately lying in the estate inventory. My question to Ola Möller is quite simple: Is the punishment supposed to be alleviated? Do the government parties want it to be a lower penalty for those who, after the amendment of the law has entered into force, provide false information in a written certificate than for those who today give the same false information under oath? If you start from the bill, that's how you should interpret the government's intentions. At the same time, between the lines, it seems, in all honesty, to be a mere oversight. In their focus on making bankruptcy management more efficient and avoiding the oath, the investigators have missed the fact that in practice they are carrying out a penalty reduction. When this is pointed out by heavy consultation bodies such as the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency and the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the government is unable to handle it because it would require a review of the criminal code. Madam President, I would like My question is: Is this about a conscious remedy, or is it about bad footwork from the government?
i-55518beec79bda17-672	Madam President, I would like I thank David Josefsson for the question. It is strange that the Moderates are alone in this House on this interpretation. There's no one else who's been hanging on to the Moderate reservation. No one else does this interpretation. Then I can read out nothing but that it is the Moderates who are responsible for this, while the rest of us who look soberly at the matter are not doing the interpretation that David Josefsson is presenting in this House. It is not that it is just about this crime. There are fraud, creditor offences, bookkeeping offences, tax offences and benefit offences as some examples of what can happen if you lie to the receiver. There is also little crime in this context. In 2018, no one was charged with aggravating bankruptcy or gross aggravation of bankruptcy. In 2019 a major aggravation of bankruptcy was prosecuted. Then, as David Josefsson pointed out, it would be a huge disaster if this change of law were to take place – that you would like to make penalties and the like – is not compatible with the truth. If, instead, David Josefsson does what all of us do and interprets this as it is to be done, that is, there are no reductions in penalties, he will probably also feel that this bill as a whole is working very well.
i-55518beec79bda17-678	Madam President, I would like I thank Ola Möller for her reply. It is not the Moderates who make this interpretation, but it is the Swedish Environmental Crimes Authority and the Public Prosecutor's Office that makes this interpretation. In an earlier debate in this House that Ola Möller and I had, he pointed out that we Moderates are happy to talk about tough hands on criminal gangs in the suburbs. But he meant that we fell to little when it came to white shirt cuff criminals. Here we are, Madam President. As a moderate, I want to frame the gangsters who shoot, blow and blackmail – gangsters who terrorise the residents of suburbs such as Angered, Tensta and Rosengård. But I also want to see tough action against economic criminals, criminals who use corporate goaltenders and corporate fronts to earn black money and exploit black labour, criminals who, when reality catches up, lie in bankruptcies as part of advanced crime schemes. The Social Democrats are happy to talk widely about setting up directors who lie and commit crimes. But when it really comes down to it, it's not tough on the cuffs criminals that apply. Then there are excuses, and it is said that this is not so dangerous and that you can prosecute for other crimes. Then it is not tough on the directors in the white shirt who try to fool their creditors, often taxpayers or employees. Then it is penalty relief and silk mitts that apply to the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like I wonder again, therefore, why do the Social Democrats not want to listen to the Prosecution Authority and the Economic Crime Authority and plug this obvious flaw in the government bill? Why do they want to ease the penalty for a liar in bankruptcy?
i-55518beec79bda17-684	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is a little parody when the Moderates, who are opposed to one punitive tightening up of the other in the area of economic crime, suddenly in this small part make the interpretation that it would be a question of punitive reductions. It is an interpretation that they do together with the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency and the Swedish Prosecution Authority, but not everyone else does this interpretation, nor does this Parliament. Moreover, it is important for us to maintain the difference between lying before a court and lying before a receiver. We must uphold the authority of the courts in this regard. There is a difference between lying under oath and doing so in this context as we propose. Three state investigators have also looked at this issue. None of them have made the interpretation that the Moderates make and thought this is a problem, but they propose this order. I think there is less reason to discuss these issues and instead start discussing things like why the Moderates do not want to tackle welfare crime and why the Moderates want to use state aid payments during the pandemic as an ATM, that is to say that it should only be sent out money. Then you may have to deal with it afterwards. The focus of the Moderates here is therefore more about blacking out the government – a possible gap has been found in this – than that there are actual consequences of this bill. After all, the vast majority of this House, three state investigations and all other referrals, including courts, do not make the interpretation that the Moderates, the Swedish National Economic Crimes Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority do.
i-55518beec79bda17-689	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 1. The proposed new Property Agents Act and the proposed amendments are in line with the investigation and something that we as a party are also positive about. Buying and selling your home is for the vast majority of people the biggest deal they ever make in their lifetime. The consequences can also be disastrous for the private individual's finances if things go wrong. It is therefore a good thing that the protection of both buyers and sellers is strengthened through strengthened supervision of the real estate brokerage industry. However, we are a little surprised that the government chooses to reject some of the investigation's proposals, namely the one on liability for real estate companies. For some reason, which is unclear, the government therefore believes that real estate brokerage companies should not have any liability. The proposal, which is also referred to by the committee, gives a rather strange explanation. The proposal to give real estate brokerage companies liability has been sent to real estate brokerage companies for consultation, and they have been sceptical about the proposal. It was a big surprise. In other words, the government has asked the real estate brokerage companies, such as Swedbank Fastighetsbyrå AB, whether they want to take responsibility for their business and possibly be liable for damages if they breach the regulations. In response, the government received: No, we prefer not to take responsibility for our business. To this the government answers: You will not have to. It is in any case the obvious interpretation of the answer that can be seen in the bill. I think there is an important principle in that all companies, regardless of the industry, should have a responsibility to comply with the rules and laws that exist. To this responsibility there should also be a direct responsibility to make good the damage caused. I do not think it is a sustainable argument to point out, as the government here, that there are few cases or that liability is probably unnecessary in the vast majority of cases. It is sufficient for there to be one case in which a real estate brokerage company escapes because, in accordance with the investigation's proposal, the legislation would be preferable. The second argument is that it would be difficult to know who claims are to be made against, the real estate broker or the real estate broker company. But wait a minute. Was it not said that it is very unusual for real estate companies to make any mistakes that they could be held accountable for? Then it can't be that hard. Thus, as in the past, claims should normally be directed at the real estate agent and in the vast majority of cases. Nor should it be a problem for the Real Estate Market Complaints Board to decide who is ultimately responsible. In the very few and rare cases where the real estate brokerage company is actually responsible, it should not be a problem to proceed with claims against the real estate broker company after it has been established that it is not the real estate broker's responsibility. How the fact that companies take responsibility would be to the detriment of the consumer is highly unclear. It feels like you are making up arguments afterwards, after the government has decided to give real estate companies a unique sour cream on the issue of liability. In conclusion, Madam President, it must be taken as a whole to be remarkable that, on these loose grounds, the government saw the investigation's proposal and goes to the defence of real estate companies. It is my party's view that the proposals of the investigation should have been implemented.
i-55518beec79bda17-704	Madam President, I would like Is a new Real Estate Act a burning topic that is at the top of the agenda on the political agenda? In my opinion, real estate agents in Sweden are working very well, as can be seen from the reports that have come to the Real Estate Inspectorate. Between January and April 2021, FMI received 727 notifications. The statistics on the number of properties sold show that they were approximately 50,000 in the last three months. These numbers don't make me feel very alarmed. Among other things, the new Property Brokerage Act requires property brokerage companies to be registered and supervised. This does not mean that we as Parliament believe that it does not work well today, but that it should be seen as a modernisation based on other laws and regulations that have changed. Companies must meet several requirements in order to be active. They are also given overall responsibility to ensure that brokers operating in the company comply with good property brokerage practices. A broker company which fails to comply with its obligations shall be able to be subject to a disciplinary penalty. It will be possible to intervene if there are inappropriate people in management and ownership. These parts of the law think the Christian Democrats are good, and we support them. For us, another part is important to lift up. This applies to the possibility that the broker will be given a greater responsibility to account for radon measurements at sales. Radon is the environmental factor in the indoor environment that causes the most deaths today. The Swedish Public Health Agency recommends that the indoor radon content is controlled and kept as low as possible in order to minimise the risk to health. It is important that radon measurements are made in environments where people stay for longer periods of time. However, we have now received the signal, which was also confirmed yesterday, that the radon grant for 2021 ended already in April, and the government does not intend to return with the radon grant. Nor is it intended to ensure that applications made in 2021 can be handled. It was seen as a temporary effort. Therefore, it becomes even more important to pay attention in other ways to buyers of a small house on how it is with the radon in the property they buy. According to the Radiation Safety Authority, there are nearly 400 000 homes where radon levels exceed the guide value. It is important that a home buyer can be informed about whether a radon measurement has been carried out. I therefore believe that it should be investigated whether real estate agents should be required to report in particular whether a radon measurement has been carried out and what it has shown. For this reason, I am in favour of reservation 2 from the Christian Democrats.
i-55518beec79bda17-710	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government's proposal for a new Real Estate Act in the CU20 report. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. We Social Democrats want to create a solidarity-based society in which all people can live free and equal, but our social structure suffers from imbalances between those who have power and those who do not have power. It can be seen between the sexes, between employees and employers, between tenants and landlords, and between consumers and traders. We also have a great deal of legislation that starts from this very point of view. The Discrimination Act, labour law, rental law and consumer law are all examples of areas where the balance of power interests is sought. For us Social Democrats, it is natural to stand up for the weakest party in a process. For us, strengthening the protection of women, employees, tenants and consumers when we see that these groups have a subordinate position of power is central to the pursuit of an equal society. Today's report on strengthening the supervision of the real estate brokerage industry is our starting point. When you as a home buyer are to enter into the most important business in life that you as a private person do, it is extremely important that consumer protection is strong and in place. Legislation is therefore needed to strengthen consumer protection in the housing market. The legislative proposals require the real estate brokerage companies to be registered and supervised. Companies must meet several requirements in order to be active. They shall be given overall responsibility to ensure that brokers operating in the company comply with good property brokerage practices. A broker company which fails to comply with its obligations shall be able to be subject to a disciplinary penalty. It will also be possible to intervene if there are inappropriate people in the management or ownership circle. In addition, more real estate agents will be subject to registration and supervision. It is also proposed to extend the obligations under money laundering laws to brokers and brokers. As the President hears, there are several legislative proposals in the bill that strengthen the protection of the consumer against misleading real estate agents and real estate brokers. They also aim to curb money laundering crime, which unfortunately also exists in this sector. We have seen this not least in a case in Södertälje that has just been rolled up. These changes achieve the main objective of the proposals, i.e. that both buyers and sellers should be able to feel secure when real estate agents convey the transfer of property of very high economic value. Strengthening supervision and intervention will improve the impact of the rules and thus ensure that the real estate sector is healthy. In addition, the new rules meet the EU's requirements for money laundering regulation. To conclude, Madam President, of course more needs to be done. But this is a good and welcome first step for consumer protection in the housing market.
i-55518beec79bda17-718	Madam President, I would like The role of the real estate broker in the housing market is fundamental to giving confidence between sellers and buyers in a residential business. For both parties, it may well be the most important economic event in life and not infrequently something associated with strong emotions. That all the parties, sellers, buyers and bidders, have confidence in the real estate broker and the real estate brokers they have hired to ensure that the relocation chains that we often highlight as valuable in housing policy will work. The importance of the real estate broker is proven by the fact that 91 percent of the real estate sales made in 2018 were carried out through a real estate agent. However, the reason why the Riksdag takes a position on a new Real Estate Act is not only housing policy, Madam President. The law is an adaptation to the EU Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. In addition to adopting a new law, adjustments are also being made to the so-called Money Laundering Act. Precisely because the real estate business is so important to the seller and the buyer is often questioned their impartiality. The Civil Committee has carried out a follow-up to the previous Real Estate Contracts Act and concluded, among other things, that an extension of the Act was needed to the real estate brokerage companies, which we are also deciding on today. The follow-up also pointed to remaining problems regarding the presence of lock prices, mismarketing of the object and bias. At the same time, however, it was noted that the experience of the broker acting incorrectly has been reduced. Madam President, I would like The report contains reservations from the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. During the follow-up, it was found that the buyer has difficulty understanding its duty to investigate and therefore trusts the seller's own inspection. The Swedish Democrats' reservation proposes liability for brokerage companies in cases where they have failed to comply with their obligations. The Center Party understands that this would increase the pressure on the broker to do the right thing, but given that it is often one party that ignores its own inspection responsibilities, we believe that such damages would hamper and delay housing business and create uncertainty that could be detrimental to the housing market. Like most consultation bodies, we believe that it would create uncertainty if claims for damages could be directed at both the real estate broker and the real estate broker company at the same time. Madam President, I would like The Center Party agrees with the Christian Democrats that radon measurement should be regular. In our housing motion, we suggest that it be done in connection with OVK, mandatory ventilation control, in residential buildings, rental properties and public buildings. Otherwise, we believe that this is part of the buyer's duty of investigation and that such an obligation, like the previously mentioned proposal from the Swedish Democrats, creates problems rather than helps to facilitate housing business. We are also in favour of maintaining the so-called radon premium in its current size; we have done so in the budget negotiations in which we have participated. Madam President, I would like The Liberals' proposal to regulate bidding in order to eliminate so-called hidden bids is something we could welcome, but as far as we understand, this is not the purpose of the new law. The civil committee's follow-up identified fictitious bidding and that it is not possible to identify bidders in the bidding list as a problem. However, the Center Party cannot currently take a position on the consequences of that proposal, since it has not been investigated. We do not support that reservation but ask to come back. Madam President, I would like The Real Estate Inspectorate has the task of overseeing the industry and ensuring that a healthy real estate brokerage industry is maintained. It must then be assumed that controls are being carried out and that complaints against the industry and against individual brokers and companies are given where appropriate. Madam President, I would like The brokering community itself is concerned about developments in the vulnerability of real estate agents to become involved in money laundering transactions. The reports from real estate agents on this had quadrupled compared to the last five years in 2019. However, it does not have to be due to an actual increase in the incidence of money laundering, but may simply be due to the fact that the real estate brokers have become aware that they have to report when this happens. Money laundering in real estate transactions is still so common that the reporting of brokers and brokers is an important way of preventing the loss of proceeds from criminals into renovations or extensions or as over-prices of real estate. Last week Dagens Nyheter reported about a financial havoc in Södertälje where SEK 100 million were laundered through various companies with the help of employees in a large bank and a brokerage firm. The money is suspected of coming from drug trafficking and other serious crime. These are people who have used their strong position in society and their political contacts. It is also likely to be people who have been under pressure to act as fronts for criminal networks. Madam President, I would like The most important thing about the new law is that those who can be controlled in the future are legal persons who are registered as real estate agents and not just real estate agents as professionals. This increases the ability to control the business through supervision, while the pressure on the individual broker is reduced, even though it should also be able to be audited and included in the real estate register. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is in favour of the proposal contained in the report as a whole.
i-55518beec79bda17-731	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the CU25 report, in which the committee proposes that the Government give priority to improving the efficiency of the authorities' ability to recover. Madam President, I would like The committee proposes, with the support of its right of initiative under Chapter 9. Section 16, first paragraph, Parliament's Rules of Procedure, an announcement that the Government should give priority to the preparation of proposals for investigations concerning the enforcement of decisions by administrative authorities on recovery and return as soon as possible to the Riksdag with legislative proposals that will give them more effective and rapid means of recovering decisions. On this issue, we from the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, have a reservation, which I intend to explain. We believe, like the majority in committee, that it is problematic that in many cases the administrative authority's decisions on recovery claims do not constitute an enforceable title. This scheme complicates and delays the authorities' handling of the recovery of undue payments, as they have to apply for an order for payment or bring such a title before the courts. The question is not new. It has been investigated in different contexts and has also been noted by the government for state aid paid out by the Swedish Agency for Growth during the pandemic to individuals and companies. With regard to the recovery of other paying managing authorities, we certainly share the view of the majority that there is an urgent need for them to have access to a more effective enforcement procedure. At the same time, we note that two studies have made proposals to this end and that the preparation of these proposals is ongoing in the Government Office. We are therefore not prepared to support an announcement that the government should give priority to this work over anything else. In our opinion, there are many other issues that should be given higher priority at the moment than this one. That is why I support our reservation. Since this is a so-called committee initiative, which has been raised and heard by the majority in committee, I would like to stay at this particular phenomenon when I have the opportunity. I feel that the number of committee initiatives put on Parliament's table has increased recently. The Constitutional Committee's opinion of 27 in 1970 on proposals for constitutional amendments concerning the new parliamentary committee organisation proposes that more committees should be given the opportunity to present this type of initiative. However, it also states that the committee assumes, however, that the new powers will be used with the same care, as has been observed by the committees which have the right of initiative under the present system. In future, as in the past, cases should normally be raised by proposal or motion, and political agreement should be sought in cases where initiatives are envisaged. This is not the case; we have a reservation, which I have explained. Madam President, I would like I note that the number of committee initiatives is increasing, and I feel that perhaps there is a different purpose from reaching agreement in committee. I therefore look forward to the investigation that the Constitutional Committee is currently carrying out and which looks at our different roles and what tools we should have forward in our democratic work. As regards today's debate, work is under way at the Government Office. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-55518beec79bda17-739	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has hit Sweden and the world hard. For a small export-dependent country like Sweden, it has been of the utmost importance that the economy had strong muscles to conduct an expansive fiscal policy when needed. We have simply had to have the barns full to be able to invest in the tough times, when things go south in the economy. That's the way it's been. The government, led by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, has conducted a very wise economic policy that has enabled us to save hundreds of thousands of jobs, raise unemployment funds and build tens of thousands of homes in the midst of the biggest economic crisis in decades. But where there is big money, there are also more or less accurate fortune seekers. It may be organised crime or someone who is in a privileged situation and who is trying to find a way to grab himself a little more. One such example of recent times is Attendos's bonus program last year where money that would go to saving jobs went to bonuses for managers. Today's proposal is about facilitating the recovery of money wrongly paid. We think it is a good proposal. It is also a proposal that will largely be implemented on 1 November this year, without the Moderates having lifted a finger. It is in the light of what this matter needs to be seen. To the announcement bingo that exists in this House, we can now add an initiative paper. Suggestions are balled up, they bounce around the Parliament House, and hopefully they meet some journalist who writes an article about it. The political game is constantly reaching new heights in here. Maybe it's lucky, because something will be the Swedish Radio podcast The political game has to talk about. Then maybe this is one thing that can come up there. In any case, we basically believe everything in the initiative in the field of the CU. These are good things, because they are already being done in the Government Office. So there's a blow in the air with the paddle rack. But we have reservations for two reasons. The first reason is that we do not think that Parliament should be involved in this political game. The second reason is more serious. It is part of a sentence in the initiative that is very problematic. It says in one sentence: The government should give priority to the preparation of the investigation proposals submitted. This question ends up in the Department of Justice. It is a department dealing with issues such as men's violence against women, shootings – which are current today if nothing else – and family law issues. The fact that Parliament goes in and says that the Moderates' proposal, which is already in preparation, should be given priority before women are killed by relatives is totally unacceptable. The argument that there are different departments in the Ministry of Justice dealing with the issues does not hold up. It is a budget that is allocated and used in a department. The resources will be distributed within the department. It cannot be the Parliament's task to go in and govern the government regardless of its colour when it comes to how resources should be prioritised. Madam President, I would like With this, I support our reservation and thank you for the floor.
i-55518beec79bda17-748	Madam President, I would like A lot of things you need to hear from this speaker's chair before your ears fall off. It was probably one of the larger bottom flaps that was delivered from Ola Möller during this term of office. Of course, you can stand up here in the speaker's chair and be ralignant and feel that as soon as there is a majority in parliament against the government, it is a political game. Then it's nonsense and bickering. Madam President, I would like It is a little bit the overall narrative that the Social Democrats are engaged in right now. Anything that in any way interferes with the power of the government or the government's policies is a threat to democracy. We have heard it said time and again. Ola Möller's post here may well be said to be an element along that course. Madam President, I would like There is an alternative way of looking at what is happening right now in the Swedish parliament and for that matter also outside the walls of this House. It is that we have a government that is largely incapable of dealing with extremely many of the serious social problems we are currently seeing. The initiative package that we have taken from the Moderates is in all respects serious, and the intention is for it to have an effect in all its parts in reality. In the parts that have been dealt with in other committees, it is a question of shortening the processing times for the payment of aid. It is also about what we are discussing here today with the Committee on Civil Liberties. In the case of aid that has been wrongly obtained, that is, where people have cheated with aid, the authorities should be easier to claim back the aid, rather than having to go through the bureaucratic process that we see today where enforcement is required or to go to court. Of course, it costs the national economy a lot of money. The Social Democrats have the nerve to stand here and be ludicrous, even though they have an investigation in place that has already proposed this. What we are doing now is telling the government to get your thumb out, literally. We're in the middle of a crisis. We have a situation where companies that should receive crisis support do not receive crisis support, and we have a situation where crisis support is also cheated. What is the government doing about this? The answer is too little. That is why we have been forced to take this initiative. Madam President, I would like Another alternative way of looking at what is now happening in Parliament is that we have a government that, on many issues, lacks support in its parliament. In a functioning democracy, the government will then be run over. That's exactly what's happening now. Of course this is uncomfortable for Ola Möller. Of course this is uncomfortable for the government. It is clear that we would rather put out fog curtains and talk about threats to democracy or that there is a political game going on in here. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the Members present in this House from different parties are committed to trying to improve society. At the moment, there are exceptionally often a majority of Members who do not think that the government takes the mission seriously. Then we'll form majorities, and then we'll run over the government. Madam President, I would like That's what we've been doing here today. That's why we're looking forward to a little workshop from the government. I would therefore like to call for the committee's initiative to be approved.
i-55518beec79bda17-760	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin obviously has a very high tone against the government. It's pretty telling how the Moderates are these days. They are desperate for Rosenbad, and then it takes very loud expression. Gone is the idea of practice and standards. Having a coherent budgetary process is nothing that the Moderates now think is good. Instead, unfunded proposals are put forward. Gone is the idea of that 1 chapter. 6 § of the government form must be followed: The government governs the kingdom. My question to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is how he believes that the government should govern when the Riksdag enters and determines the order of priority in preparation work in the Government Office. In addition to the fact that it violates the meaning of the government, it is an administrative failure that in here, with the limited resources available here, we should go in and carry out the government's tasks, which include prioritising the resources of the departments.
i-55518beec79bda17-764	Madam President, I would like Ola Möller obviously wants to gleam the lid of Pandora's box when it comes to the discussion of how the government is complying with announcements. Madam President, I would like It is possible that we would not have had the need to include the wording that it should be given priority if it had not been for the fact that we just managed to deal with letter 75. We could see that there are ten-year-old announcements on the table of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, which the government has still not come back with. Madam President, I would like Then it may be appropriate to have a statement that this is important here and now and that it needs to be prioritised. We've seen what happens to our announcements. They're put in a moth bag. They could be eight or ten years old. Is that reasonable? No, of course it's not. Therefore, the Riksdag needs to take the right to say that the government must act now. This crisis is going on here and now, and this proposal aims to improve the functioning of society in the crisis.
i-55518beec79bda17-769	Madam President, I would like Anyone who can count can conclude that ten-year-old announcements were those addressed to the Reinfeldt Government. It was therefore for three years that the Reinfeldt Government had to deal with this. There the government broke Reinfeldt, which well Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin wants to know, although what is known is not the Moderates' line of doing so nowadays. But it was also this government that broke. If these are ten-year-old announcements, then the reality may also have changed, or the government has actually implemented things that correct the announcements. But, of course, announcements should be dealt with, and I would like to say this as a rule. But perhaps this is not surprising, given Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's view of how leadership should be exercised. If you have a party leader who talks about ministers giving authority and that it should be a clear uprising, I understand that humble listening and popular leadership may not lie for Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin with his more harsh and firm view of leadership. The fact remains that the Moderates put an ineffective and fundamentally dangerous practice with their detailed demands on government work. Parliament's task is not to regulate the departments in detail. Public power is exercised under the laws, and the Riksdag will of course follow up and review this. But it should not go in and budget priorities or rules of procedure priorities in a department. To be very specific, why do the Moderates think that their committee initiatives in the Civil Committee are more important than the work against men's violence against women?
i-55518beec79bda17-774	Madam President, I would like In fact, there must be some shame and honour in this House. We have never ever said that it would be more important, and Ola Möller knows that very well. That he's even trying to make that point is just despicable. In fact, in order to reconnect with what was said earlier, there are announcements from the Social Democrats that have not even been dealt with by a Social Democratic government. Ola Möller knows very well that when we handled letter 75 it said that the case was not yet closed. What does it say about the work of the government? Or what does it say about the policy pursued by the Social Democrats in opposition? Didn't you want to implement your own policy? Madam President, I would like It is clear that from here we must be able to say that something is urgent or should be a priority. What is painted here from Ola Möller is a powerful exaggeration of what it would be about. It is not about budgetary priorities; it is about us wanting you to heed the announcement now. The investigation is there. Be sure to put it in the lake, and be sure to implement it!
i-55518beec79bda17-779	Madam President, I would like I am giving this speech to Angelica Lundberg, who unfortunately, because of the circumstances, is unable to express it herself. Madam President, I would like When an authority today determines that a grant has been paid out incorrectly or requests other recovery, the way to recover the claim may be long. In most cases, a so-called enforcement title must first be issued, which is done by a judgment in a court or by an order for payment from the Enforcement Authority. This process is time-consuming and takes resources from the already hard-pressed courts. Some exceptions exist, for example for student loans and construction fees, but as a general rule, authorities who want money back must take the long path and bring proceedings in court or request the Swedish Enforcement Authority to investigate the matter – this despite the administrative authority's decision gaining legal force. Such a regime is not reasonable and the investigation that in 2016 submitted the report A more modern enforcement procedure (SOU 2016:81) suggests instead that all decisions of an administrative authority relating to payment obligations taken in the exercise of public authority should be enforceable as soon as they have become final. The 2018 investigation that focused on the recovery management within Försäkringskassan and the Pensions Authority is also in favour of the procedure now being proposed. The Swedish Democrats share the opinion of the investigations and believe that it is important to make it easier for authorities to recover claims belonging to the public. The current pandemic has also pinpointed the difficulties that may arise if subsidies are wrongly paid. However, in the five years since the completion of the main investigation, the government has not acted. We would therefore like to thank the Moderates for initiating this announcement and hope that the government will now give priority to the issue and will shortly return to Parliament with legislative proposals that will enable authorities to directly enforce recovery decisions. I support the committee's proposal.
i-55518beec79bda17-786	Madam President, I would like The matter we are dealing with today is essentially about the crisis aid that has been applied for and paid to companies through the Swedish Agency for Growth for more than a year. It is conversion aid, turnover aid and compensation for short-term lay-offs and rental aid. All aid was introduced in a short period of time, through the persistent pressure of the Center Party, and they have been developed and decided in the twenties amending budgets during the 15 months that the pandemic has ravaged and paralysed Sweden. The fact that the government eventually chose to prioritise this and put other things aside has probably helped to save many jobs and secure the future of companies after the Corona. But not all of them! Madam President, I would like We have a majority here who, like the government in other contexts, want to act quickly, while the representatives of the government parties in the Civil Committee do not think there is a need to prioritise and speed up. But, Madam President, it is, of course, while the pandemic is going on and it is still uncertain how long the restrictions will continue that there is reason to speed up the preparation in the Ministry of Justice! Of course, other work should be possible, and it is unlikely that all 5 000 employees of the Government Office are currently involved in legislation on men's violence against women, although this is very urgent. On the contrary, Madam President, it is likely that the lawyers who are expected to prepare a bill based on the two investigations into the enforcement of administrative authorities' recovery decisions will be able to put aside other work in order to urgently implement Parliament's decision today on faster disbursements and repayments of business support. The whole thing shows how well the arguments of the Social Democrats and the Green Party are in this. Using such a serious and important issue as men's violence against women to curb measures aimed at further speeding up the payment of business support is purely opportunism. The word opportunism, Madam President, according to Wikipedia means an unprincipled exploitation of the prevailing circumstances and adaptation to those who have power. The proposal under discussion here is a subset of the proposals put forward by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Civil Liberties, which aim to speed up the procedure, speed up the payment and the possibility of withdrawing aid which has been wrongly paid to companies or aid which they have usurped with fraud. Although the aid was produced in a short period of time, it has turned out that it has not reached the applicants sufficiently quickly. Long processing times and sometimes excessive zeal have caused many companies to be in distress, forced to lay off staff or to wind up operations. Madam President, I would like You can have views on the Swedish Agency for Growth and its management, but ultimately this is about how the government controls its authority. The facts have led to personal bankruptcies, closures and unemployment. Madam President, I would like My colleague Helena Lindahl will describe some of the fates of entrepreneurs and their families throughout the country when the Committee on Economic Affairs deals with this issue in its next debate. The announcement to the government that we are proposing is about implementing the proposals from the investigation entitled A more modern enforcement procedure and the investigation V is some procedural issues in the field of social security. Both are prepared, as it is called, at the Government Office. It is proposed that an administrative authority's recovery decision be implemented directly and that it be possible to do so before the decision on the matter has become final. It is called, Madam President, in legal Swedish as an enforceable title, something that can be executed directly without passing a court in each individual case. If you read the text of the report, you can see that all parties have actually taken a stand in favour of this, but that we make different assessments of the urgency of speeding up efforts to speed up the payment of business support by the authorities. It can be said that the disagreement that exists is not a dispute on the substance, but is just about whether or not this should be speeded up. Unlike the Committee on Civil Liberties, Madam President, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy fully agrees on two occasions to use the word It would be appropriate to obtain an explanation from the representatives of the government parties in the civil committee about the difference between the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where the committee agrees to speed up the work, and the position of the civil committee that it is not important to speed up and prioritise the work. It's a strange inconsistency, but others may be able to tell us why it is. So why is it that the views of the Social Democrats on urgency are different in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in our committee? Both parliamentary decisions today will also be handled within the Ministry of Justice, which, according to the CU reserves, is currently busy prioritising the work against men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-55518beec79bda17-802	Madam President, I would like Over the past year, tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in Sweden have had to wait for weeks and months to find out whether or not they will be helped in the Corona crisis. Thousands of entrepreneurs are still waiting for information. During the past year, the Corona crisis has hit Sweden and the world hard. More than 14 000 people have died in Sweden. Over 1 million people have become ill. Many people have lost their jobs, and many entrepreneurs have seen their lives perish. Madam President, I would like A little more than a year ago this pandemic began figuratively to wash over Sweden. In a short time trains and airplanes were emptied, hotels went from being fully booked to becoming empty and industries had serious problems with their supply chains. I think most people respect the fact that it wasn't easy at first. No one is sure how serious this was, how extensive it would be, and how long it would last. You had to do the best you could in the introduction. During the year, many entrepreneurs have been helped, not least in parts of industry, but tens of thousands of entrepreneurs have also had to wait unreasonably long for information. It has either not been helped or waited until it has finally been received, while the crisis has hit hard both the company and the individual entrepreneur's personal finances. The reason, Madam President, for this delay and slowness is that the government has not managed the emergency aid well enough. And to be clear, it is not just the Moderates who say so. We are talking about thousands of entrepreneurs who say the same thing, business organisations as well. Several of them have testified and appealed to the Committee on Economic Affairs for faster payment and better management. Crows in central Gothenburg have weekly crisis meetings. There is also a constitutional review by the Minister of Economic Affairs. The accusation against Ibrahim Baylan is not about what he has not done, but questions have been raised about whether he has lived up to the Budget Act and the Administrative Act at all and whether he has acted with such negligence that jobs and businesses may have been lost because of it. The Corona crisis has hit rock hard. Medical reasons have called for restrictive measures for us as individuals and for companies. Just as reasonable as it is to act resolutely and limit in order to ultimately save lives, it is just as reasonable that those entrepreneurs who are subject to restrictions and sometimes pure trade bans should be fully compensated. This has not happened with this government, and that is under any criticism. In addition, during this year it has often taken months for the government to decide whether to help companies and months to return with legislative proposals to the Riksdag. It has also sometimes taken weeks, sometimes months for authorities to adapt computer systems and open up for affected entrepreneurs to apply after the parliamentary decisions in order to finally be able to get money into the account. A restaurateur who, at the end of last summer, had major financial problems as a result of the pandemic was only able to apply for money this year and was only able to get money paid out by the state a few weeks ago. That's enough. And we're talking about sum rooms about tens of thousands of affected entrepreneurs. Instead, when the government has not acted, the Moderates and other parties in the Riksdag have acted. The fact that there is targeted support for culture and sport, that people with individual companies are now being helped and that the interest on tax deferrals has been pushed down is due to the fact that the Moderates and other parties have pushed this through in the Riksdag against the will of the government and the Minister for Economic Affairs. At the moment, there are two initiatives at Parliament's table regarding continued crisis support for companies. One is a new and developed conversion aid. The companies that, in what I think we all hope, can be the final phase of the pandemic have lost much of their turnover will be able to receive special support to cover both staff costs and other costs. That is what the Committee on Finance has been discussing today and on which Parliament today decides. This moderate proposal has won the majority in Parliament and is very much awaited by the country's entrepreneurs. The second proposal is what we are now discussing, Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs. There are three important changes aimed at the country's entrepreneurs. Firstly, if you have a complete application for short-term or lay-off aid, you should get the money paid out faster. The government is now given the task of reviewing various measures such as increased resources and a time guarantee to get away from the long processing times that have previously lined this up. Secondly, a special penalty is to be introduced. Those who commit crimes against lay-off aid should not escape in the way they now do with the government's arrangement. We'll put an end to it. Thirdly, we want what is called proportionality, a tricky word that means that Parliament is now clear to the government and the authorities by distinguishing between what is serious and what is criminal on the one hand and what is petty and sloppy on the other. Slarv should not make you repay hundreds of thousands of SEK, but crimes should be punished in a way that they do not currently. Madam President, I would like The Parliament's decision today is crystal clear: Companies will get help faster, penalties will be tightened up and a distinction will be made between crime and negligence. The next step is for the Government to ensure that the Riksdag's decisions are implemented. During the Corona crisis, the government has been remarkably slow. Now is the time for change. My expectation of the Minister for Economic Affairs is that he will immediately see to it that this is done. Let me be clear: as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I will take the initiative to call the Minister for Economic Affairs before the summer to give notice to Parliament's parties about what he has actually done before midsummer and what his plan looks like to live up to Parliament's decision so that affected entrepreneurs should not have to wait weeks and months. Clearly and early he will come back with this. That the Minister for Economic Affairs should answer to the Riksdag is not about me or the Moderates. It is ultimately a matter of ensuring that the thousands of entrepreneurs who are still waiting for information on whether or not to receive Corona help are finally to be told. It is about being able to save important companies and jobs in areas such as taxis, hotels and trade with crisis support during what is hopefully the end of the pandemic so that the re-launch of the Swedish economy can then go much faster.
i-55518beec79bda17-820	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU30, Measures concerning support for short-term work, which today, in a changed form, is based on an initiative by the Moderates in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to begin by calling for the unanimous proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs to be approved. Madam President, I would like I would like to start in the challenging situation that Sweden and the world are in. A year ago we entered a deep and long crisis. We all know worried entrepreneurs who are struggling and wondering how things are going to turn out. I think we all know someone who's been sick in covid-19. I think we all know of someone who has left us as a result of this terrible infection. I think we know all the older people who've been home a lot of this time. We know children and students who have had a tough time with distance learning. We know health professionals who wonder how the hell they have been able to cope and how they continue to cope. This crisis that Sweden is in has also shown how society stands up. Individuals, public companies and organisations have all taken responsibility for reducing the spread of infection and helping each other. We in this House, as Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has been saving in the barns, have been able to invest 400 billion in the extra amending budget after the extra amending budget – we are up to over 20 such now, I think, – in order to cope with the welfare, manage the jobs and manage the companies. That, Madam President, has never happened before. It was important for the government and the cooperation parties The Center Party and the Liberals to get business support in place as quickly as possible. Had we social democrats learned anything during the financial crisis, it was that there were then no support requested from the companies and workers. With regard to what we are debating today, namely support for short-term work, the then moderate-led government was completely tone-deaf in its 'no', and up to 100 000 industrial jobs disappeared. Other countries had introduced short-term support, and it was better for them when jobs and competitiveness were saved and recovery was therefore done in a faster and better way. Madam President, I would like The business support that has been set up during the pandemic crisis is all new. They have had to be adjusted and improved during this long-term crisis to be more accurate and to ensure that serious, honest companies in need of support receive taxpayers' money. After all, it is SEK 100 billion of taxpayers' money that has gone to direct support to help businesses in this crisis. Short-term support has been the most sought-after, and the largest share of resources has also been paid out in this assistance. Some 600 000 applications for short-term aid have so far been made, which is still absolutely fantastic. However, Madam President, although we all understand that it is a new aid and that it takes time to build up a new organisation, and understanding that the applications were so many more than initially forecasted – there were 50,000 cases in two weeks – some companies have had to wait far too long before the subsidies have been paid. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the government has invested more resources in the agency in order for the support to be managed more quickly. Other authorities have lent their staff. But for some, this has taken far too long. We in this House have probably all received calls from desperate entrepreneurs. We think it is a good thing that a united committee is proposing to Parliament to decide that the government should take more steps to shorten the processing times. After the Ministry of Economic Affairs has invited and discussed with Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and with Stefan Strömberg, who has investigated for the government the prevention of crimes linked to the support measures in connection with the new Corona crisis, and after we also received clear information from the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, the Moderates withdrew from their original initiative. It was warned that this initiative could provide a way for organised crime to usurp taxpayers' money. The original proposal was a time guarantee which would mean that payments of the aid would be granted automatically if the procedure exceeded four weeks from the date of the application. There, the government would ensure that a large part of the current review of the application and reconciliation process on short-term work would take place after the grant of the aid had taken place. Then we would have had an investigation where Stefan Strömberg warned about exactly that and said that payments of preliminary aid in advance for longer periods risk leading to increased crime with tax funds and also that such payments can have consequences for serious actors because it is difficult to manage the aid in the intended way. Madam President, I would like We agree that there must be proportionality in terms of recovery. It's a good proposal by the Center Party. The requirement for all provisional aid to be recovered in certain cases where the errors appear to be minor deviations or as excusable risks leading to an actual refusal of entrepreneurs to apply for the aid, which of course is not desirable. I hope, Madam President, that everyone in this House is thinking about whether proportionality should be included in more support and insurance. The third proposal, Madam President, which we support originally comes from the Moderate Committee initiatives, and that is that the government should review the possibility of introducing specific penal provisions for short-term support. It is important that rogue companies that abuse or cheat are punished. Of course, we want taxpayers' money to support serious and honest companies. Now, together in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have found a way forward where we want the government to work on further shortening the processing times, that the authorities should work with proportionality so that small tumults do not stifle large loads and that dishonest companies should be punished so that honest and serious companies can get these important subsidies. 600 000 have already been supported in short-term work. It shows the need, and it shows how many workers and entrepreneurs have been helped in this crisis. Sweden is at its best when we do everything we can together. I hope, now that more and more people are being vaccinated and we see that the spread of infection is decreasing, that the lives of both entrepreneurs and citizens will be a little easier.
i-55518beec79bda17-839	Madam President, I would like On the way here this morning I walked past the local grocery store around the corner outside the Parliament building. We usually talk sometimes about the uncertainty in the store but during the last year also recurring about how it works for him and his colleagues who are traders. What he was witnessing about this morning was about the coming summer. In this particular case, it is about central Stockholm, and he stated that it will not be a summer with tourists as it usually is. He also talked about whether he should comply with laws and regulations and the agreements he has signed, in this case with the Trade Workers' Association, he should have laid down the schedule for the summer vacation by the end of April, and he stated that it was hard when impossible. He also noted that we are now in a discussion on the extension of the so-called short-term lay-off aid. He himself had e-mailed to the Ministry of Industry and the Minister for Enterprise and Industry and received a reply that there will be no extension to shortly afterwards, when the government and support parties have decided later on that there may probably be an extension. He still feels insecure and has questions like: When can I apply? Will this be granted? What should I do to set schedules for the staff in my grocery store? This is just one example of many, but it points to the case we have here today, that is, the long processing times and the late political announcements about extensions and developments. The Riksdag is now clear on these three points: cut-off time, new penalty and introduction of proportionality. Madam President, I would like The crack question now is not what the Riksdag thinks, but it is whether Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg's party colleagues in the government will rise from the armchair and actually implement this. My simple question is: What will AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg do in person to ensure that Parliament's decisions are not just something of general opinion but that it can be implemented in practice rather immediately through the agency of the Minister for Economic Affairs and others, for the benefit of this supermarket and others?
i-55518beec79bda17-846	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered is quite right that extensions may have come late. No one knew from the beginning how deep and long this crisis would be. In May and June last year, the Moderates wanted to give 100 billion straight out to the companies for two or three months– I think Elisabeth Svantesson spoke about – without even knowing what they were going to do. If the Moderates had the power to decide, the money would have been over by now. One must constantly extend until one sees that Sweden is on its feet. That is why the government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has proposed an extension of short-term lay-off aid until the end of September. That's good, because it's going to be necessary. There are also other support measures for this summer. We know that aid will be needed for a long time, whether we have completed vaccination or not. Of course, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg will make sure that things happen. Proportionality is something that it is important that we can agree on in this House also on other things, such as unemployment insurance or other things. There you can be assured immediately if you have made the slightest mistake. So I think we should continue to work on proportionality. It is also an important task for the government. Criminal law provisions exist in other areas. Right now it is temporary legislation, but since the actual short-term lay-off will be permanent, the government will certainly come back with it, especially since Stefan Strömberg proposed it. This also applies to the time aspect. It's important. Companies have been affected by the fact that the process has taken too long. But we still see a slight lightening. We had the Swedish Agency for Growth with us, and they told us about the processing times right now.
i-55518beec79bda17-852	Madam President, I would like We do not know whether this is the final phase, or whether it continues with new mutations or other. We can hope that this will work out, and a great deal is in favour of it here and now. However, I believe that a lesson from last summer was that the government did not take heights for it in the budget bill and that this led to it taking time in the autumn. It is wise for the government and support parties to make proposals to extend short-term leave, for example. It allows you to catch your breath a bit into the fall, based on the fact that we do not know. It's one of the most important things right now. Many still have problems; it can be those who drive taxis, it can be traders, it can be restaurant owners and others. They've been running their companies on the rims for quite some time now. It really is a question of giving rapid information on whether or not you will receive lay-off aid. But that also applies, of course, to the other things that Parliament is talking about. Stefan Strömberg has investigated and made suggestions. It is important to ensure that they are implemented. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has discussed another part of the proposed aid and changes, what is called recovery. The government parties voted against and stated that it was a matter of priority and that there was no time in the Ministry of Justice. That is why I am raising the issue, Madam President. I hope that AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg and others, too, will be able to press for it not to be given priority but to be able to get it through. For us, it's all parts. It's faster processing times. It is the introduction of criminal provisions to tackle serious, organised crime. And that is what can be legislation but also how the Swedish Agency for Growth works, namely proportionality, in order to find ways to avoid being liable for a full amount due to a minor error and not serious crime.
i-55518beec79bda17-858	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear any question there, but more of a reasoning. I also want to reason a little and say that I think it's great that the Moderates and Lars Helmered now think it's fantastic with short-term lay-off support. During the financial crisis, the Swedish parliament wanted to announce to the government that hundreds of thousands of industrial jobs were disappearing and that it was not good, but then the Moderates said no. There was no talk of emergency aid, lay-off aid, conversion aid, turnover aid or rental aid. I am therefore pleased that we have now found each other in the fact that short-term work support is a good reform. It must, of course, also work so that the length of proceedings can be shortened. During the last visit by the Swedish Agency for Growth to the Committee, they told us how they work now, and they have actually shortened the application periods properly during 2021. I hope that we can shorten them further so that the subsidies come out. The only thing I find very difficult about the Swedish Agency for Growth is that they did not file the appeals quickly enough. There is also a lot of money waiting for businesses. I think the whole committee shares the view that it was not well done. Otherwise, I think it is very good that the Moderates now, when they are in opposition, think that short-term work and short-term lay-off support is fantastic.
i-55518beec79bda17-862	Madam President, I would like For more than a year now, I have been describing and regretting how the Swedish industry has suffered from the pandemic and the reaction to the pandemic. These are political reactions in the form of recommendations and restrictions, but also people's reactions in the form of changing patterns of movement. Part of the business community has done relatively well and has managed to return to a relatively normal situation after an initial slump during the pandemic. Other parts of the business world are still under pressure and are bleeding to death. It is the latter, who run hotels, travel agencies, transport companies, restaurants or bars, that the policy still has to stand up for and support in order to prevent otherwise viable companies being forced to take down the sign as a consequence of the pandemic's effects. This is particularly important in cases where companies have been affected as a direct consequence of restrictions on Swedish property rights and the freedom to conduct a business during the pandemic and which we will certainly have reason to debate and criticise in the future. I am among those who are usually of the opinion that industrial policy should create the conditions for a good business climate without needlessly interfering. It should be a business environment in which both new and old companies can operate and grow and where Sweden's ancestry as an innovation-driven nation should be able to survive. It is actually entrepreneurs who create new business opportunities and lay the foundations for new innovative companies. It is companies that create Sweden's growth and prosperity, not politics. With this insight, as a friend of a market economy, I am fundamentally opposed to political entry into the free market, in terms of unnecessary regulation and various forms of public support. However, just as I have just mentioned, the freedom to conduct a business has been restricted for many companies during the pandemic. Their ability to pursue their business activities has been severely limited and, as a consequence, they are now in danger of going bankrupt. Then the public must support them and compensate them for the economic damage caused by the restrictions. Madam President, I would like Let me take a few examples of the companies involved. It may be the bar owner whose main source of income is the alcohol sold in the evenings and nights. But now he has to close already at 20.30 and see his customers go to tight apartments to continue the evening instead of remaining in his supervised and controlled bar environment. It may be the restaurant owner who lives on all the business dinners that usually take place after the customer base has completed its late working days but who now completely miss out on those customers who do not have time to both start and finish a dinner before the clock struck at 20.30. It may be the event organizer who is dependent on corporate events and parties but who is now completely out of business as she does not even at Friends Arena can let in more than eight people. This is at the same time as the mall lets thousands in. It may be the travel agency that usually helps Swedes to see the world and the world to see Sweden but is now forced to shut down because of travel restrictions both here and abroad. It may be the entrepreneur whose life's work is to offer good and well-cooked food in shopping centres around the country but who is not allowed to have more than one customer per table even though other restaurants may have four. Madam President, I would like Even a friend of a market economy with limited public interference understands that, under the current circumstances, the state needs to replace entrepreneurs like those I have just highlighted. Against this background, I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats, together with other parties in the opposition throughout the pandemic, have been responsive to the business community and actively worked to offer the conditions that business needs. Unfortunately, the opposition has not rarely met with disinterest, lack of commitment and slowness from the government parties. And once we have succeeded in getting support measures in place, the next government-related problem has arisen, namely onerous bureaucracy, unclear processes and long processing times. Many are the traders who at first rejoiced that the government beats on the big drum and promises money and then become disappointed that the money does not reach them even though they are entitled to it. The opposition has raised the issue time and again in this House, in the committees and in the media. But only now, after many ifs and buts, have we managed to agree in the Committee on Economic Affairs on, among other things, a proposal for an announcement to the government: that the government should ensure that the processing times for short-term support are further shortened and consider resource enhancements, legislative changes and a time guarantee. This has been requested by industry, and although the announcement is not as sharp as it could have been, it represents a step in the right direction. Hopefully, the government is now taking urgent action to ensure that the conditions for business are strengthened immediately. I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-55518beec79bda17-878	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday I spoke to a friend and colleague who is also an entrepreneur in Vindeln in Västerbotten. She owns a hotel, a restaurant, and a camping site, and it was clear at an early stage that she was unable to keep her staff. But now she told me that the coming weekend is for the first time fully booked. People want to live at the campsite. Others happy have booked hotel rooms. There are conferences, forest excursions and so on. It makes her feel hope. Besides, the staff are back. Like her, many others, as several of my colleagues have mentioned, have had a hugely tough year. It has been about saving one's life's work and one's own livelihood, but also about being able to keep one's employees. But in the end, it's all about so much more. These jobs are incredibly important for the local economy, the one that makes the economy spin. I am pleased that, as one of the January parties, the Center Party has contributed to our strong support for companies. The problem has been the processing time. It has taken a very long time, and this has meant that many entrepreneurs almost perished while waiting for the subsidies. I know that a week ago my colleague Rickard Nordin mentioned a restaurateur in Gothenburg, who perhaps Lars Hjälmered who is also from there knows about: Lalle Morberg. He had had to wait a long time for support for short - term lay-off from the state, and he waited for SEK 1 million. This forced him to sell his summer house in order to afford to advance. Others don't even have a summer house to sell. Maybe that means they're going bankrupt, and that was never meant to happen. That is why we in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the various parties and also jointly in this House have tried to speed up. It is faster today than it did last year, but we have to admit that, despite this, some companies still have to wait far too long. Madam President, I would like It was not long ago that we could see a piece on TV– I don't know if it was in Mission review or in Cold Facts– where it was told that over 5,000 companies had been stuck with the Swedish Agency for Growth for months before the cases were passed on to the Administrative Court. It was because these companies had appealed against decisions of the Swedish Agency for Growth. These could be minor offences that had prevented them from retaining their subsidies and had to repay them. Unfortunately, this will take a long time. We know that the Administrative Court cannot deal with 5 000 cases just like that, but it will take some time. The tragedy is that, despite the fact that they have often made quite small mistakes, these companies cannot seek other support in the meantime. Then it is clear that many entrepreneurs say: If I had known this, then I probably would never have applied for this support. Then it would have been easier to lay off the staff. Let me give you an example from home. I've probably mentioned it before, but it can actually be mentioned again. I have contact with the small businesses Erica and Erik Sjöström, who run Levar Hotell in Nordmaling in Västerbotten. When I met them, they told me that they now have to pay $250,000 to the Swedish Agency for Growth. The reason is that last summer they talked to the authority and were given the task that this date should be sent the report where you have to write what you have done with the support money you have received. They sent the information in good faith a few weeks later. A few more months went by, and then they found out: you were too late with the re-report, so now you will be liable for the refund. So they have to pay 250 000 SEK, a quarter of a million, that is, the entire amount they have received in support and have already paid out in wages to their staff. Erik and Erica said to me, "We don't have this money. There's no way we can conjure them out. Their company is one of the 5 000 who have appealed to the Swedish Agency for Growth, which, after a long delay, passed it on to the administrative court, and they cannot apply for other aid. This is really the back. Of course, this is not how it was supposed to be. We have good economics in Sweden, and we can afford company support. The problem has been the management. That is why I am delighted that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have together been able to support the Mothers' original committee initiatives. Then we have come up with additions and modified it, and together we have supported three very good proposals, which my colleagues in this House have mentioned. The first is that the duration of the proceedings should be substantially shortened. Then there is proportionality. A few days' delay in the re-reporting of aid should not have such enormous consequences as it has actually done, i.e. that the aid should then be repaid. It has only been in the case of death that exceptions have been made to this, or when there has been technical error on the part of the authority in question. That is why we cannot be so stubborn, so I am happy about proportionality. The third is that of course you should do the right thing, and if you do wrong you should pay back. Of course, if serious crimes are committed intentionally, they should also be punished. It's not about minor offenses, it's about grosser crimes. Finally, I would just like to call on the government to heed the initiative of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and, I hope, the Riksdag as well. The long waiting periods which, as I have said, have affected many small entrepreneurs are not acceptable. The subsidies are actually to help the entrepreneurs, not to overturn them.
i-55518beec79bda17-897	Madam President, I would like Today's case concerns measures concerning short-term support, also known as short-term lay-off. The Coronapendem has forced us to make great changes in how we live and how we travel. It has affected our jobs and businesses, as well as our children and our elderly. The government, together with the Riksdag, has developed several amending budgets – I think Anna-Anna-Caren mentioned that it is around 20 – to maintain the basic structures. A large part of the budget has been devoted to supporting companies. With state aid to companies comes responsibility, of course. The money should go to what it is meant to go to. This should be done in a transparent way, and tools must be in place to investigate and to curb and punish crimes. The misuse of state aid is, in my view, particularly sensitive. This is money that can go to saving other companies that are in crisis or to strengthen welfare, especially health care. I am glad that the Moderates, who are behind this initiative, backed up on the time guarantee, because it would probably have led to wrong payments. That money would probably be hard to get back. Madam President, I would like Short-term lay-off has been a successful way of keeping businesses and jobs. But we have seen that the processing times are too long. Especially for smaller companies in crisis, this may mean the difference between being able to keep jobs and businesses and not being able to. The authorities have worked hard to shorten the processing times, and today they are at the Swedish Agency for Growth in about five weeks for a complete case. Of course, when we discuss this, we also bear in mind that it has been completely new tasks that the authorities have been given. We will need to analyse how we are preparing authorities to change in the event of a crisis in the future. Madam President, I would like This proposal has three legs. The first is the processing times, and we demand that the government work to shorten them further. The second is the introduction of specific penal provisions for short-term support. Today it is difficult to get back money that has been wrongly paid out. Therefore, it is important that the applications are complete and carefully analysed before the money is paid out. But when crimes have been committed, our law enforcement authorities must have the tools to investigate and punish. The introduction of penalties will be a way of signalling that we consider the crimes to be serious. The third leg of the proposal is proportionality. As part of the control processes, employers who have received support for short-term work must make a reconciliation in order to receive the remaining support – perhaps more support or perhaps reduced support, depending on the circumstances. Reconciliation is important, but sometimes companies may have been a day late with a task or made a less significant error in relation to any of the data. Unfortunately, this can lead to quite significant consequences. It may be that you have to pay back the whole amount even though the mistake was less. This puts enormous pressure on companies that are already under great pressure during this crisis. Madam President, I would like I wish proportionality were also present in other parts of society. Just as all parties in this proposal see the pressure on companies during this crisis, I would like more people to see how pressured people are under, for example, unemployment or illness or, if necessary, support – not just during the pandemic, but when people are going through their own personal crisis. Living on support or unemployment means a crisis, whether it is a pandemic or not. Here I wish that there would be proportionality, an understanding that this is about a person who needs just support and not more obstacles. Just as some parties are more concerned about businesses, more people may be able to protect the unemployed, the single or the sick in the tough situation in which they live. There the obstacles are not a reconciliation, but they are met with mistrust at the door. In these areas, temporary improvements made under the coronapndemin need to be permanent. But this is a matter for the future. One thing I would like to take this opportunity to raise, Madam President, is the proposal that we in the Left Party have made regarding company bonus dividends. Here too, state aid rules need to be tightened up. We cannot give millions or billions of aid that will be a basis for company bonus dividends next year. It is provocative that Volvo, which has laid off thousands of employees and received over 1 billion in crisis support from the state, simultaneously pays out bonuses of as much as 118 million. Attendo has received 120 million in state aid, which goes to raise management salaries and to bonus dividends. It's catastrophic! Here the Left Party has put forward proposals but has not heard. Every company has to do its own thing, especially when we run with everyone's tax money. I support the committee's initiative and therefore support it.
i-55518beec79bda17-910	Madam President, I would like For Swedish entrepreneurs, the last year has been a steel bath that none of us could have predicted. Of course, we should be humble because it is easy to make mistakes when new and unexpected problems arise. But the more important is that those who have the power to make changes really listen and understand what an entrepreneur's everyday life looks like. I am therefore pleased that the Riksdag is today jointly presenting an initiative, which originally came from the Moderates, that the Government should ensure that the processing times for support in short-term work are further shortened. This is something that we Christian Democrats believe should be done urgently. We urge the government to review both resource enhancements and legislative changes and to consider a time guarantee for payment. The processing times of the Swedish Agency for Growth in support of particularly vulnerable sectors have certainly not worked during this pandemic. Many aspects have been highlighted as explaining that introducing a time guarantee, for example, would not be a good idea. Among other things, we have been able to hear from the government parties in the debate that this aid risks going to organised crime if it is not carried out under the system that has been built up over the last year. This fear has never been something that we Christian Democrats questioned. However, the system must not be the thing to put a stop to all the companies that fight every day and every hour of the day to survive. Entrepreneurs who were successful and saw growth in the companies saw their business slip out of their hands in extremely short and unpredictable time. During the last year there are measurements and statistics from, among other things, Visita that show that in the tourism industry only 3 per mil of the applications are suspected to be criminal. Today, we are taking the decision to call on the government to urgently introduce specific penal provisions relating to support for short-term work. In the debate, however, we see that some parties identify entrepreneurs as criminals. It has to stop. I am therefore pleased that we are moving forward with this so that those who deliberately commit crimes also receive punishment. Madam President, I would like Let me do a little flashback. The reason why we are having this debate today, more than a year after the pandemic began, is precisely the management of the payment of aid. Support for particularly close-to-contact industries has been delayed. The problem has been a large part of the stories we have been able to learn from entrepreneurs. And it has not only been a handful of entrepreneurs who have been in touch. There are thousands of entrepreneurs in Sweden who can share their stories. At the beginning of the pandemic, the application for support for short-term work and the payment of this was relatively rapid. So came the summer, and with it also the follow-up, and then it was time to apply for support for the next period. The summer was filled with unanimous votes: the companies did not receive support, and certainly not within a reasonable time. The frustration was great. When Parliament met again after the summer break, we Christian Democrats raised the issue in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which called both the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency to hear what the situation actually was like. It was described as bad as we feared. But the Swedish Agency for Growth had a plan. They would employ more people and thus speed up the process so that processing times could be shortened. It was a few months. Entrepreneurs called again, and it escalated toward November. The long processing times became even more apparent, and we again asked the Swedish Agency for Growth to come to committee. The Authority has always been direct about having the resources it has asked for, but despite this, the development did not go in the right direction. But the answer then, like the last time, was that you did everything you could. The government and the Minister for Enterprise said they were doing everything they could. The beginning of the new year did not improve, and we again called the Swedish Agency for Growth to the committee. At the same time as this we were many who on Wednesday 31 March saw Mission Review program Corona support that disappeared and felt a big lump in the stomach. More than 5 000 entrepreneurs' appeals had been collected at the Swedish Agency for Growth, which was unacceptable. It also felt as though this was an authority that had swelled and that the management had lost control. Errors have been committed, and the administrative court has decided the whole thing, but the money has not been paid out. Those who got caught were Swedish entrepreneurs. At the same time, we know that the reinforcements and extensions of aid that have often taken place have been one or a few months at a time. This, in turn, has made it a patchwork of different rules and requirements for companies. Add to this the restrictions announced, very often with poor foresight. They put entrepreneurs in the restaurant business, for example, in an extremely tricky situation. The situation is difficult to navigate, but it can be improved if you want. Madam President, I would like In this report, we also draw attention to an extremely important element that is important for many entrepreneurs, namely that the government should investigate how proportionality in reconciliation and recovery of provisional aid can be improved. There are many stories we have been able to learn of where uncertainty in the application for the aid has contributed to delays, to the total absence of the aid or to the need for reimbursement. This must now be investigated, so that it becomes reasonable proportions and so that entrepreneurs dare to seek support to which they are entitled rather than risk going bankrupt. Madam President, I would like We must never forget that every chandelier is created by companies that pay taxes and whose employees pay taxes for our common good. Without companies, we have no welfare. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-55518beec79bda17-926	Madam President, I would like I was puzzled when Camilla Brodin said that some parties suspect entrepreneurs. I would just like to know which parties are involved and in what respect.
i-55518beec79bda17-927	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Member of Parliament Lorena Delgado Varas, for the question! What I said was that one hears such things from the government parties. The Left Party is not part of the government, so it is not you that we are referring to at this stage. When we had the special debate on the Corona support, there was an incredible amount in what the Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan said at the time as suspecting entrepreneurs. It was as if almost all entrepreneurs were considered criminals and exploit the system. In fact, most entrepreneurs are honest and honest and may not even want to be part of the support, but they need it to survive. Most entrepreneurs want to operate without State support. That is what I was referring to in this case. I think we should stop accusing entrepreneurs of being fraudsters and criminals.
i-55518beec79bda17-930	Madam President, I would like The reason I asked the question is that the debates on business often hear that some parties are anti-business parties, while some are not. The difference is probably a little about how to make demands on companies. One of the demands I would like to make on companies is that they do not award bonuses the year after they have received a lot of state aid. I wonder how the Christian Democrats stand about it. Is it reasonable for a company to award millions of bonuses when it has requested state aid the year before?
i-55518beec79bda17-932	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the honourable Member, for the question. It is not an easy question to answer yes or no to. Of course, it looks incredibly remarkable if you have the opportunity to pay out multi-million-dollar bonuses. But we also need to understand how the whole system works. If companies are to grow, dividends sometimes have to be paid. So it is not an easy question to answer yes or no. However, we must be extremely vigilant about what our tax funds are spent on, so that they also go to companies that need support in order to survive. Otherwise, we will have an incredible debt in the labour market, where we see that it is not progressing in the right direction. Here we must help companies to actually survive. We need to ensure that we have companies that can operate once the pandemic ebbs out, so that more can be employed in Sweden. Then we can also jointly contribute through tax funds to the common good, so that we have a health care to trust, a school to trust and care to trust. It is the ultimate responsibility of politics to deal with these issues. Then we need every company that helps us get the welfare country that we actually need.
i-55518beec79bda17-935	Madam President, I would like Liberals' industrial policy is basically based on fewer subsidies. We believe that entrepreneurs are best off if we ensure that barriers are removed instead of providing various forms of subsidies that are likely to distort the market. Grants run the risk that the market will not function as well as removing obstacles in the form of red tape or unnecessary laws and rules. However, Madam President, this general industrial policy has been put on top of the pandemic during the year. When the pandemic has limited entrepreneurs' ability to run their businesses and when the policy has responded – it has been many times but perhaps not always reasonable – to restrict entrepreneurs' business freedom, it is clear that the policy has a responsibility to intervene by also supporting those entrepreneurs who go on their knees because of the pandemic. Madam President, I would like In this way it is natural that Sweden AB, as you sometimes call it, is some kind of insurance for all people here. And in this case, I think that a reasonable aspect of the social contract is that entrepreneurs who go to their knees because of political decisions and because of a pandemic that could not be predicted must receive reasonable support. In this process, in the amending budget following the amending budget of the January Contracting Parties and sometimes of other parties in the Riksdag, it has often been liberals who have had to push for the various subsidies and for those subsidies to be extended. Madam President, I would like Despite this, things have not always gone well. There is a great and justified frustration among many entrepreneurs around the country. There are countless examples of absurdities – aid to be paid out and to which entrepreneurs are entitled but which has not been paid out. There are rules that have been clearly said laughable. Arenor has been treated in the same way as a small theater. The government has not seen the difference between a club, where people party hard until 5 o'clock at night, and a restaurant that has different sittings and where people are not more drunk and less careful at 23 o'clock than they are at 7 o'clock – it is simply different company because there are several sittings. It is quite often that the regulations have become blunt. Madam President, I would like There have also been major problems with proportionality. One can, for example, look from the political side at the companies that have made mistakes – small mistakes – and made careless mistakes. They have then been obliged to repay huge sums of money. This has been very difficult to meet for someone who conducts a smaller business. Madam President, I would like This is something we are now trying to overcome together from the Riksdag's Committee on Economic Affairs. We say to the government: you have to solve this. There has to be proportionality in these things. The proposal that we are debating today and on which we are about to decide contains criminal provisions. Anyone who deliberately commits a criminal act and cheats must, of course, be confronted with criminal provisions. Finally, Madam President, this proposal also means that we shall pay out the aid to which we are actually entitled very quickly. It is not reasonable that in the social contract, in Sweden AB, year after year, people are doing their own thing, paying taxes and operating businesses that build the wealth on which the entire state's business and well-being rests and then not receiving support in time when things are going badly due to unforeseen events and because of political decisions. That's completely unreasonable. That is why it is a very important proposal on which we are taking a decision today. I'm glad the Moderates have presented it. I am pleased that we have been able to have constructive and broad discussions in committee and that we have been able to reach that conclusion. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats said earlier here that we have Magdalena Andersson to thank for the fact that the barns are full and that we can therefore now distribute support. I mean it's directly wrong. It is not Magdalena Andersson who has filled our barns with bags of gold that we can now distribute. Magdalena Andersson is perhaps rather like Prince John in the legend of Robin Hood, who has been sitting on other people's money in his castle and who has allowed others to pay for their reforms. Then it is generously called when you give back to the inhabitants of Sherwoodskogen and Nottingham, Sweden's entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like In that analogy, perhaps the IRS is the sheriff of Nottingham. And the Liberals, who have pushed for this money to come out of Magdalena Andersson's cash register to the entrepreneurs, who have created the resources from the beginning, is Robin Hood. The person who is Rikard Lionheart is Lars Hjälmered, who sits here and who, by threatening the Social Democratic castle from the outside, has made sure to help us in the fight for Sweden's entrepreneurs to get the resources to which they are entitled and which are theirs from the beginning. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. It is a committee initiative that has been dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I warmly thank all the parties that have made this possible and the Moderates, who have tabled the proposal from the outset.
