i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-48	Mr President, I would like to We have today to debate the report of the Committee on Justice on the 2020 report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 and for the Parliament to submit the letter to the Government. There is a great deal of support in this House behind the obvious starting point that foreign citizens who pose a threat to Sweden's security should leave the country. If this is not possible for any reason, these persons should be kept in custody or supervised in a safe manner compatible with international conventions, not least the ECHR. Mr President, I would like to The handling of foreign citizens who pose a security threat is an issue that is not only discussed in Sweden. Often the debate is about cases where there are enforcement obstacles to expulsion. In Sweden we had an intense debate linked to the six so-called imams. Perhaps the most talked about case in the Nordic countries concerns Mullah Krekar. Krekar came to Norway in 1991 as a quota refugee and built up the Islamist group Ansar al-Islam. As early as 2003, he was sentenced to deportation. For over ten years, various Norwegian governments tried to execute the expulsion without success. Norway, like Sweden, is bound by the international conventions it has signed. Thus, Krekar could not be deported to Iraq, because the Iraqi authorities could not guarantee that he would not be sentenced to death if he returned. Worth noting linked to Mullah Krekar is that the Fremskrittspartiet for the 2013 election promised that the expulsion of him would be carried out if they won the election. After the election, the Fremskrittspartiet was part of a government led by Høyre. What about the rejection? In 2020, Krekar was expelled – to Italy. The moral is that it seems easier to be a populist in opposition than when you're in a government. Mr President, I would like to Back to Sweden. In 2018, the Government decided on a review of the Special Alien Control Act. The aim was to achieve effective, effective and transparent regulation which is at the same time compatible with the proper functioning of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. The investigation proposes, among other things: new teams that facilitate the deportation of qualified security threats 中 increased penalties for those who violate the obligation to notify or defy a return ban 中 reduced requirements for obtaining authorisation for secret coercive measures, from exceptional to special reasons
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-56	According to the investigation, the new law should enter into force as soon as possible, but since the scope of the new law is partly based on the implementation of the draft Terrorist Crimes Act, the new law should enter into force at the earliest at the same time as the Terrorist Crimes Act enters into force. The Government's bill list for spring 2021 shows that the Government intends to submit proposals in these two cases in June 2021 for consideration in the Riksdag after the summer. The idea is that the new law will enter into force on 1 January 2022. Mr President, I would like to The possibility of holding individuals in detention where there are enforcement obstacles is extremely limited, taking into account the principle of proportionality and the international conventions, in particular the European Convention, by which Sweden is bound. The ECHR requires, among other things, that detention be carried out as part of a procedure relating to the expulsion of the individual. Where a determining authority or government has found that there is an impediment to enforcement and the expulsion order is thus to be suspended, detention can no longer be deemed to be part of a procedure relating to the expulsion of the individual. A new investigation will not change this fact.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-59	Mr President, I would like to Over the last few decades, Europe has suffered a long series of very serious terrorist acts. These have mainly been Islamic-motivated terrorism, such as the serious attacks in Paris in 2015. Having said that, there have also been attacks with, for example, far-right agendas, and we all remember with horror the attack on Utøya in 2011. After the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan almost four years ago, it became clear that the threat from terrorism is real also in Sweden. Sweden has for a number of years been experiencing an increased level of terrorist threats. According to the National Centre for Threat Assessment, there are individuals, both in Sweden and abroad, who regard terrorist attacks on targets in Sweden as legitimate and who have both intention and ability to carry out them. An important part of being able to protect us from new terrorist acts is to ensure that people who are or can become a security threat to Sweden do not manage to stay in the country. The Special Alien Control Act allows the Security Service to take special measures against persons deemed to pose a security threat. For example, these could be people who can be linked to security-threatening activities. Ultimately, the people can be expelled from the country. The report debated today deals with the Government's letter of 2020 on the application of the Special Alien Control Act as well as two accompanying motions. The law on special foreign control has been severely criticised. A few years ago, in a special submission to the Government, the Security Service has pointed out that the legislation is unclear, difficult to interpret and difficult to read. The shortcomings of the law have also recently become apparent as foreign citizens, who pose assessed security threats, are being set free because of obstacles to the execution of the expulsions. People who have been assessed by both the Government, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Migration Agency as being a threat to Sweden's security can thus, in principle, move freely in Swedish society. This is a very unfortunate consequence to which many in Sweden, quite rightly, have reacted very negatively. A fundamental task for each state is to protect its own citizens. In connection with the so-called "Terrorist Agreement" in 2017, the government committed itself to reviewing the Special Alien Control Act, but it took the government more than a year to set up the investigation that was a necessary prerequisite to achieve this. Quite exactly a year ago, the report of the inquiry was finally submitted to the government A more effective framework for foreign affairs with security aspects. It was three years after the government in the Terrorist Agreement promised to review the law. Now it has been another year, but the government has still not submitted a bill to the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to The starting point for the Moderates is that foreign citizens who pose threats to Sweden's security should leave the country. If, for various reasons, this is not possible, these persons need to be kept in custody or monitored in a safe manner. That is not entirely possible today. The investigation has carried out a thorough review of legislation in this area and proposes a completely new law that stands on its own feet and is not, as the current law in its application, dependent on the Aliens Act. The study also proposes a number of tightening up of legislation. It is therefore important that the Government now urgently returns to the Riksdag with proposals on the tightening up proposed by the investigation. However, that is not enough. The investigation did not focus on the type of situations where expulsions cannot be carried out, nor was it included in the investigation's directive. The committee notes in the report that the committee directives for the investigation which will form the basis of the forthcoming proposal were too narrow and that certain issues which have created tangible problems were not sufficiently addressed by the investigation. The Swedish Parliament therefore called on the government a year ago to urgently set up a new investigation to review what additional measures need to be taken to ensure that society can protect itself against people who are considered to be a security threat. As the government has still not set up such an investigation after a year, the committee is now calling for a new investigation to be set up within three months. Such an investigation should, inter alia, examine the conditions for increasing the possibility of holding persons deemed to constitute a security threat in detention in compliance with the rule of law and proportionality, and strengthen the possibilities for supervision in cases where expulsion cannot be carried out. Furthermore, we Moderates believe that a system needs to be put in place so that obstacles to the execution of expulsions can be removed by means of so-called diplomatic guarantees. Diplomatic guarantees may be concluded with other States on a case-by-case basis. But it should also be possible to go further and try to introduce the type of system that exists, for example, in the United Kingdom, namely general agreements. I therefore call for reservation 2 on diplomatic guarantees. The Moderates have also proposed that Sweden should impose requirements on countries of origin that receive Swedish aid to also cooperate in the readmission of their citizens. The consequence of refusing to receive their citizens who have been denied the right to reside in Sweden should be that all or part of the aid is withdrawn. Mr President, I would like to The government needs to achieve greater success in getting these security threats to leave the country. The threat of terrorism will exist for the foreseeable future. Political action is now needed to solve the security problems facing Sweden.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-76	Mr President, I would like to We are debating this morning the report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act. It is a special law that exists in Sweden that gives our country an opportunity to expel those foreigners who are deemed by the Swedish Security Service to be a security threat to our country. This law, the Swedish Democrats alone, has been critical of for a very long time. It's too toothless. It has taken a very long time for other parties, and not least for the government, to start acting on this issue. When, five six years ago, the Swedish Democrats spoke of shortcomings in this law and wanted it to be investigated in a sharper direction, we were told by the government that nothing can be done about this without Sweden being bound by conventions that make it impossible to take action in a sharper direction. Today we hear from the Social Democrats here in the speaker's chair that this law can be tightened up and that the government intends to do so. But there is no more to be done than the government intends to do. It is impossible to do. This shows the resistance of the Red-Green Government to tighten up the law on special foreign control and that it is not always based in reality but on political and ideologically motivated resistance. That is why the Swedish Democrats continue to write follow-up movements in connection with these statements and write motions during the general period of exercise that the law on special foreign control should be tightened. We believe, unlike other parties in this House, that this law must be designed with Sweden's safety as a top priority. Then it is unsatisfactory that we have had a rather attentive case – it is not the only one in Sweden historically – with six imams that the Swedish Security Service considered a security threat. They were taken into custody in 2019 and were to be expelled. With insufficient possibilities for Sweden to affect enforcement barriers, these people were released because there is no other basis for arrest in Sweden. These people have been free in Sweden since then. They even get to choose where in Sweden they will live. One of them has moved to Malmö, a municipality already affected by violent extremism. The Swedish Democrats advocate a completely different line, a detention based on Sweden's security, i.e. that the Swedish Security Service should be able to take people – foreigners – who pose a security threat to our country in custody under certain conditions. For example, if intelligence comes to the Security Service about a very advanced imminent terrorist attack in our country, the Security Service could take dangerous people into custody, perhaps to obtain more intelligence or to disrupt the organisation of a terrorist attack. This possibility is lacking today because there is politically motivated opposition, especially from the government. We call this security custody, and we bring it up in a reservation. However, we also support other ways of influencing this unsatisfactory situation in our country by getting people to leave the country through diplomatic guarantees. We know that there are other countries that are more successful in carrying out expulsions through, for example, diplomatic guarantees of persons for whom enforcement barriers have been imposed. When the government says that it is actively working on these issues, you can ask how often it has reconsidered the grounds for enforcement obstacles that the Migration Court of Appeal has established. I had an interpellation debate with Minister Damberg not so long ago. The answer to this question was unanswered. I suspect that the government has not at all reconsidered the grounds for non-execution against these six imams that were to be expelled. It has been two years and not once has the grounds for non-execution been reconsidered. It is not what I call an active effort to achieve success in the expulsion of six imams that pose a threat of terror against our country. It's a fail grade for the red-green government. As I said, the Swedish democrats have long pointed out the shortcomings of this law. We have achieved some success, for example, with the slow action of the government to extend the time spent in enforcement custody. We have recently come to the realization that some form of additional control than calls from the police by obligation to report once a week may be appropriate. A loose proposal on electronic monitoring has been made. But we have also seen that people who were to be expelled – terrorists – not least in England and who posed a threat to England's security and were in freedom under the supervision of electronic surveillance carried out knife attacks on the population. The offer on the table from the Red-Green Government is about an opportunity for a little longer enforcement and possibly electronic monitoring. You can drive a truck with electronic surveillance. This is just a small reminder of the seriousness of the situation. The Swedish Democrats demand from the government that it do more than that. It is not too much to ask for a way forward to achieve greater security on these issues. If it's not possible, if it's impossible, it's one thing. But anyone who has not tried is also responsible for the situation that then arises in our country. Finally, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3 on detention.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-90	Mr President, I would like to You can think what you want. You get to have any crazy ideas, and no thought can be forbidden, however repulsive it may be. But when one's opinion and thinking are translated into anti-democratic activities, incitement to violence or support for terror sects, the limit is the openness of our society. Everyone is free to hold a debate and make their voice heard. But no one is free to threaten, call for violence or commit themselves or contribute to acts of violence. Such acts are punishable, and we will have to continuously develop this criminal law in order to protect our society. Even when it comes to those who have not yet committed such acts but have a clear ambition to do so, there is a limit to the patience of open society. The subject of the day has been debated in many rounds, and with good reason. I recall that when we debated last year's edition of this letter, I pointed out that the issue strikes right into the extremely delicate balance that we must take between the security of the kingdom and of our citizens and the rule of law, human rights and the rule of law. This is therefore a subject that must be treated with the highest quality we can ever propose. I also think that I said that anyone who claims or suggests that this is easily seriously underestimated the complexity of the issue, or understands it, but does not care either for the central value of democracy. Whatever the case, it is quite clear that we are not ready to deal with matters of this weight. The cross-block talks about how best to fight terrorism in Sweden from 2015 and 2017 were good. But then it took the government three years to get to grips with one of the most important things. When we debated this subject last year, it was announced that complements needed to be made, but nothing has yet happened with regard to these additions. That is why a new announcement is coming today, as Mr Mikael has explained. The government may say that you have a lot to do and that there are lots of announcements to deliver on. However, if you claim to rule the country, you are also responsible for getting things done, especially as the Riksdag urges the government to do. There are no excuses for this meekness, and that is why we are presenting today this rather sharp announcement with a clear deadline. A couple of concepts always come up when we debate this subject. It is the European Convention on Human Rights, as we have heard, and diplomatic guarantees. Today's debate is no exception. Diplomatic guarantees make sense and make sense, but we should bear in mind that the states that are involved usually have real villain regimes. Think of Syria and Iraq – should you hook arms with such regimes and trust that such a diplomatic guarantee can be kept? It's pretty shaky. That is precisely why enforcement barriers often exist. These are states that oppress their inhabitants who commit gross abuse. Hooking arms with such regimes is probably not very fruitful, and agreements with such regimes must be considered exceptionally weak. But sure, the possibility should not be ruled out. As far as the European Convention on Human Rights is concerned, we seem to have gone a little back and forth over the years, but we seem to agree on the largest and widest field in the parliamentary majority: the Convention should be respected. We must not expel people if they are at risk of torture or the death penalty. Sometimes it almost sounds like this is something regrettable, something necessary evil that we would prefer to withdraw from or renegotiate. But, Mr President, the important thing is not that we are bound by the international convention. The important thing is that we do not want to expel any human being to torture or the death penalty. I hope that this is an approach that we broadly agree on in the future. There is much to say on this subject, and we have debated it in many different rounds. But I hope that we will move forward and have active development work in the extremely important work of protecting the security of our kingdom and the security of our citizens, while safeguarding the rule of law and democratic principles and seeing the value of every human being, no matter who they are.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-102	Mr President, I would like to Foreign citizens who pose a threat to national security must leave Sweden. If it cannot be done quickly, such a person should be able to be placed in custody or supervised in a safe manner. It is disappointing, to say the least, that further measures in the event of non-execution have not been investigated despite the fact that the Parliament made such an announcement a year ago. But now we can push this forward with a decision here today when we vote in favour of the committee's proposal. The Christian Democrats have a number of reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 2 on diplomatic guarantees. Given the seriousness of the subject, it is a bit sad to start a speech by saying that here we have another example of the government's inability to act. If we really are serious about taking action against extremism and terrorism, we ourselves must constantly ensure that we have adequate legislation that can strike both against organisation and against funding. Since 2017, when the agreement on terrorism was made, the government has committed itself to reviewing the law on special foreign control. Only partial success has been achieved. A year ago, the Parliament issued an announcement to broaden the narrow directive that the ongoing investigation was working on. The investigation had not been directed to look at situations where enforcement obstacles prevent expulsion. Here we all have on the retina the situation with the six imams, which, for this very reason, are now moving freely in our society despite the fact that they pose a threat to national security. The agreement on terrorism in 2017 came after the Swedish Security Service stated that the legislation in force at the time was both unclear and difficult to interpret and also difficult to correct. I'm sure the memoir remembers that things happened in 2017. We all remember as yesterday the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan here in Stockholm. What perhaps fewer people know is that the day before, the Christian Democrats' initiative to ban association with terrorist organisations was voted down here in the Swedish Parliament. This inability to deal with extremism and terrorism on the part of the government manifests itself in different ways. Another legislation that we need here in Sweden is a ban on foreign extremists from financing activities here. This is something that we Christian Democrats have been pushing for years, because we see that we need to put an end to foreign funding. It is necessary if we now want to do something about, for example, violent Islamism. We have therefore raised the issue that there should be a ban on foreign financing of Swedish mosques and Islamist associations. The other day, Folketinget in Denmark decided to do just that. It is a law that puts an end to what is called a ‘anti-democratic donation'. In a press release, the Minister for Social Democratic Immigration and Integration states that this bill is an important step towards the fight against the attempts of extreme Islamists to gain ground in Denmark. With this, we can take a targeted approach to donations that undermine the values on which Danish society is based. ..................................................... Here in Sweden, the Social Democraticly led government has made it clear that it wants to stop foreign direct investment in Sweden, but then it has been about physical investment in, for example, Swedish ports. When it comes to foreign fanatics, the government does nothing. Mr President, I would like to We therefore have a reservation in which we believe that obstacles to enforcement should be removed by means of so-called diplomatic guarantees. We want to try to shape agreements with diplomatic guarantees with other countries so that expulsion can take place. Here we can and will also evaluate Swedish aid. If the country in question receives Swedish aid, we believe that the aid must be tested, and then we think of the part of the aid called development aid, not humanitarian aid. It shall be able to be reduced or withdrawn if the country of origin does not cooperate in the readmission of its nationals. A foreigner who has been refused an asylum application or who has committed a crime must leave our country taking into account what is called non-refoulement. It is therefore important that Sweden works actively, much more actively, to obtain, for example, diplomatic guarantees that give it the opportunity to test this. This is something that not only we Christian Democrats and several other parties are pointing out. Säpo also points to this as an opportunity when it comes to the six imams that were arrested and where expulsion could not be carried out, but where they are now at large in our society.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-115	Mr President, I would like to Marcus is one of the many young people who have taken their lives in Sweden. Ten years ago he wrote about his thoughts on the Flashback online forum, and then the troll jumped into the thread. They were inciting him to really take his own life, and they were right. He broadcast live the end of his 21-year life about ten years ago. There they sat and looked in front of their screens, those who with their button presses tried to get him to push over the edge. This is a rare disgusting story. And the worst thing about it is that it's true, that it can't be rewritten. But what can be written about is the law, and what is still drawn is the future. Every day a large part of the population struggles with anxiety, anxiety, and depression. Many children get up in the morning, look themselves in the mirror and hear the inner demons whisper: You're ugly, you're disgusting, you're useless. You don't deserve to live. These are the absolute opposites of what we parents feel about our children. That contrast between what we feel and what some children think is probably one of the most painful things a parent can have to bear at all. Recently I was talking to a father whose daughter had tried to kill herself. He described the feeling when he sits at the kitchen table and the daughter takes the evening walk with the dog. He cannot demand to come and cannot forbid her to go out, but he must sit there with the anxiety and the total anxiety. And the thoughts come: Is it now? Is she coming back to me at all? Each year, some 1,500 people die by ending their own lives. To get an idea of the size of the problem, we can put it against the death of some 300 people in traffic each year. We have a duty as a society to do what we can to ensure that no human being ends his own life. We must give support and help to those who feel so terrible that they are considering this at all. We need to give families tools to deal with mental illness. Our schools must work hard against bullying. All of this is the right of those who are mentally ill to demand of us. But it is also about how we act as fellow humans. How do we act when someone stands and balances on the brink of life? When people want the lives of fellow humans and incite people to actually take their own lives, they beat society's efforts in so many ways. But above all, they hit those who are absolutely the worst and those who are in the weakest position in our society. We need to draw a red line towards this. It is about young people who feel bad, but it is also about the love of parents and the dignity of all of us. There are no official statistics on the occurrence of a suicide call. But there is information and stories from professionals – it can be about police officers and non-profit organisations. We know that this is happening, for it gives these stories the hand. And that is enough for me for us as legislators to act on this issue. I am proud today when we are now going to vote on a penalty for two new crimes: the call for suicide and the careless call for suicide. The penalty for inciting suicide is proposed to be imprisonment for a maximum of two years and for negligent incitement to suicide fines or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. I am also proud that we are doing this together, so thank you very much to each and every one of you who is sitting in here from all the different parties! I think it is a declaration of strength that we can join forces on certain issues and that we can stand up for those with mental health problems across the block. From 1 May, if everything goes the way in this House today, we will be able to report calls for suicide to the police. It will be another way to say no, to care and to give a helping hand, but it is far from the only thing.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-130	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report SfU15 Obviously unfounded applications and the identification of safe countries of origin. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4, 5 and 6 and the rejection of the other reservations, which means that I and we Social Democrats support the Government's proposal for a law amending the Aliens Act. The proposals are based on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a case on 25 July 2018 which limited the Finnish Immigration Service's ability to assess an asylum application as manifestly unfounded and to decide on expulsion with immediate enforcement. In order to give the Migration Agency the same opportunities as before, it is now proposed that the revised Asylum Procedure Directive rules on safe countries of origin be implemented in Swedish law. The proposals allow the Finnish Immigration Service to consider an asylum application to be manifestly unfounded if the applicant comes from a country included on a list of safe countries of origin. However, this shall apply only if the applicant has not provided any serious reasons for the country not to be considered a safe country of origin for him or her. If it is also clear that a residence permit is not to be granted on any other basis, the Finnish Immigration Service shall be able to decide whether to refuse with immediate enforcement. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force as early as 1 May 2021 – thus this year. In order for an application to be considered manifestly unfounded, it must be clear that the foreigner cannot be subjected to persecution or other protective treatment. It shall be a clear assessment which does not require any more detailed consideration either of the credibility of the data or of whether the facts referred to may give rise to the right to asylum. The Finnish Immigration Service may not take a decision on renunciation later than three months after the first application for a residence permit has been made after arrival in Sweden. The rules of the revised Asylum Procedure Directive on safe countries of origin are based on the Member State determining which countries are to be considered safe countries of origin. This assessment shall take into account, inter alia, the extent to which protection against persecution or ill-treatment is provided by examining the relevant laws and regulations of the country and the manner in which they are applied and the respect of the rights and freedoms laid down in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the United Nations Convention against Torture. Consideration should also be given to how the country respects the principle of non-refoulement in accordance with the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees – i.e. the Geneva Convention – and whether the country provides a system of effective remedies against violations of these rights and freedoms. Mr President, I would like to The definition of safe countries of origin is central to the acquis and should be included in the Aliens Act. It should be as clear and clear as possible. The term ‘safe country of origin' shall mean a country where there is generally and consistently no persecution, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment, punishment or threat due to indiscriminate violence caused by an external or internal armed conflict. The assessment shall also take into account the legal and political situation in the country. Children-specific protection reasons shall be taken into account when assessing whether a country is to be considered safe. The revised Qualifications Directive states that persecution can, among other things, take the form of child-specific actions, such as the exposure of children to human trafficking or genital mutilation. This shall be taken into account when assessing whether a country is safe. Children's situation and rights should be taken into account not only in terms of persecution but also, of course, in terms of other protective treatment. According to the Court of Justice of the European Union, a Member State which, like Sweden, has not introduced the rules of the Directive on safe countries of origin cannot invoke this rebuttable presumption. Unlike the First Asylum Procedure Directive, the recast Directive does not provide for the possibility for Member States to consider only part of a country as safe or to consider that it – or part of it – only safe for certain social groups. An overall assessment of the country shall be made and, as stated in the bill, the situation of particularly vulnerable groups, such as women or LGBTQ persons, shall also be taken into account. We believe that the revised Asylum Procedure Directive does not allow for the application of the provisions on safe country of origin to parts of a country or certain groups of persons. If the Finnish Immigration Service has decided to decline with immediate enforcement, the decision can be appealed within three weeks. Furthermore, in the event of an appeal against the decision, the appeal of the Migration Court shall be suspended and the decision shall not be enforced until such review has been carried out. It is stated in the preparatory work that, in view of the importance of an effective procedure, it may be expected that the court which has to carry out that examination will do so promptly. We also assume that the government will take into account the need for control measures and possible possibilities for detention in the follow-up to this legislative dossier and, if necessary, will return.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating the report on unfounded asylum applications from safe countries. We have been debating Swedish migration policy for a very long time. We are back with a report which shows once again that Sweden has no control over its migration policy. There are many problems that need to be solved; one of them is the thousands of unfounded asylum applications that come annually. Media has pointed out that there is a Ukrainian working property that has put in systems to promise away, or convey, work permits in, among other things, Sweden. The agency's approach is to bring people here and recommend them to seek asylum. During the period when they apply for asylum, they request a change of track for a work permit, and during that time it is paid for by Swedish taxpayers. This was what Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson promised that an interpellation debate would be resolved in this House on 18 December. Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson said very clearly that these problems will be solved when I lifted this in my interpellation. The Finnish Immigration Service has not only made up a proposal, but they have based on the existing regulations, i.e. the proposal the Government has sent to the Finnish Immigration Service. There's no Ukraine there. In the interpellation debate I mentioned, I also mentioned Georgia, which is another country from which we receive very many unfounded asylum applications. Georgia is a safe country where organised crime has put in a system that comes to Sweden and seeks asylum. In the meantime, you can move freely in Sweden and do the job you should do. Usually you don't get caught. We can take Georgia as an example. There may not be many people who know about this, but they have had problems with their census system. You can change your name and social security number almost as many times as you want. This is a problem that the Georgians are trying to tackle. Mongolia is another example. If we look at the Migration Agency's statistics in the last three weeks regarding which countries asylum seekers people come from, we see that Ukraine is in second place, after Syria. According to the government's proposal, the entire territory of the country should be safe. Let us take Ukraine as an example. In Kiev and Lviv there is no armed conflict, it is in northeastern Ukraine, in Donetsk and Luhansk. Thus, if a person comes from Lviv, Kiev or any other place in Ukraine where there is no armed conflict, that person may continue to bring in an unfounded asylum application. In Georgia there is conflict in Abkhazia and Ossetien, but if someone who lives, lives and has his family in Tbilisi submits an unfounded asylum application, it should be allowed to continue as it does today because the government does not want to make a proposal that takes into account the fact that a person comes from a safe area in the individual assessment. The government's proposal was not what Morgan Johansson said. When we had our debate, Morgan Johansson said in November that he estimated that 30% of last year's asylum applications would be covered by this proposal. The Finnish Immigration Service's estimate is that only 10 per cent will be covered by this. Once again, proposals are being put forward which do not address the problems. It creates mistrust of Sweden's migration policy. Those who once again pay the price are people who do not look like the majority, people who look like me. Most of them are here to work and live an honest life. They're just trying to get their lives around. You can say whatever you want in this House, and you can use any fine words in an article on the debate page of Aftonbladet or Expressen. But out there, outside this building, where people meet each other at a workplace or in a grocery store or are neighbors with each other, that debate article doesn't matter much. There has been a mistrust in our society that politics does not accept its responsibilities. Our Swedish assessment is that right should be right and wrong is wrong. However, when politics does not comply with that principle, those sitting in this House must not pay the price, but all thousands of honest people outside this building. Mr President, I would like to That is why I am in favour of reservation 8. We want shorter processing times for people who come from safe countries. We want specific control measures for persons who have lodged an unfounded asylum application and who know in advance that this person will be rejected and will be expelled. We want to be able to use an electronic anklet. We want the government to draw up a list of safe countries so that the government takes responsibility and becomes a counterparty and the Migration Agency does not both handle asylum applications and produce the list. Trust and transparency will be created.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-160	Mr President, I would like to The right to asylum means that a person fleeing death, torture and persecution should be able to obtain protection from all such things. It is a fundamental part of Swedish legal consciousness. An equally fundamental part of legal awareness is that you should not be lied or deceived to gain benefits. It may seem trivial, but it's important. For example, seeking asylum well aware that there is no basis for it would probably be seen in most people's eyes as deeply wrong. Many Swedish systems are based on a high degree of trust, and the migration system is no exception. We have long relied on lots of trust and much less control. It is a fine way of thinking and seeing the world: starting from a high degree of trust and trust. The problem is, it doesn't work. In the 21st century, it has become clear that this approach is based on a naive view of human driving forces and on how the world works. The system we have had has been over-exploited and flooded by people who have shamelessly exploited the gaps in the system, side by side with real refugees. Mr President, I would like to This is primarily a system failure. Because no matter what we think of it, it's something of a universal truth that most people are closest to themselves. You look at your life situation, you try to maximize the return on your investments and sometimes you take chances. Getting better for yourself and your loved ones is a natural driving force, whether it is for protection reasons or entirely other reasons – hence so-called asylum shopping and false asylum stories. We have even encouraged this in Sweden. Take, for example, the so-called change of track, i.e. that asylum seekers can get a residence permit in Sweden if they get a job without protection. It has invited large-scale cheating of people who do not have protection reasons but who round up the system of labour immigration by seeking asylum instead. The lack of age assessments led to over 35 000 people trying to pass as children in a single year, many of which were adults. A system that has encouraged abuse has, of course, led to obscenely long waiting times; three years is not uncommon. Time is usually money, and it is true here too, purely socio-economic. However, unnecessary waiting time also means unnecessary suffering for those waiting for information. There is therefore good reason to reduce both the erosion of the right to asylum and the waiting time. Mr President, I would like to Last year, the Migration Agency decided over 400 cases where the rejection rate was 100%, i.e. where no one from some countries was granted asylum. If we lower the bar to 10%, i.e. 10% from a given country gets asylum and 90% gets rejected, it was almost 40% of the total number of cases. Mr President, I would like to Since this is precisely a system error, we must, of course, look at how the system can be changed. If asylum seekers come from Finland or Norway, we know from the outset that the application is manifestly unfounded. The same applies to a number of other countries. That is why it is important that the list of safe countries is finally put in place. Sweden had working rules for this from the 80s and several decades forward. If an asylum application was deemed manifestly unfounded, it could be rejected with immediate enforcement. Applicants who tried to use the Swedish goodwill could thus be transferred to Arlanda in principle directly, without living at the expense of taxpayers for years and without walking around freely on Swedish streets with unclear intentions. Once the EU had legislation in this area, with the Asylum Procedure Directive in 2005, Sweden did not have to do much. We met all the requirements, and the system worked. The same in 2009 when the Directive was recast. In 2018, however, a judgment from the European Court of Justice turned the system upside down. Since Sweden has not fully implemented the directive with a list of safe countries, we could no longer reject an application even though it was manifestly unfounded. Only now, after three years, has the government finally come up with proposals on how we can solve this problem: by introducing a list of safe countries. It is, of course, a welcome proposal, but it should have come much earlier. The Swedish democrats have been exercising on this for years. Let us look at the details of the proposals. The government, like covid, wants to hide behind an authority by subcontracting the list to the Migration Agency. In this way, the possibility of accountability becomes more unclear. The Government cannot be called to account by the Riksdag in the same way. Of course, it should be the government that takes the main responsibility for the list. Even the so-called appeal period, the time to appeal a decision on immediate rejection, must be reviewed. Today's three weeks can easily be changed to one week. This system already exists in Germany and the Netherlands, for example. In order to ensure that the machinery is well oiled, fast, smooth and running as well as possible, the migration courts should also be given the necessary resources and opportunities to make rapid and legally secure on-call decisions. As Mr Arin mentioned earlier, the possibility of excluding parts of countries that are safe should also be reviewed. Ukraine is a great example. It is a surface large country that is absolutely safe, except for a frozen war going on at the far end of the eastern parts. It is, Mr President, like a low-intensity war in south-west Skåne between Sweden and Denmark, which is why Swedes would be living in Kiruna for asylum in Italy. Of nearly 600 Ukrainians who applied for asylum last year, only 0.87 per cent were granted a residence permit in Sweden. That, if anything, would indicate that this possibility should exist. Mr President, I would like to Finally – if a foreigner comes to Sweden to seek asylum and clearly has no reason for asylum, he must be subject to a return ban. If you try to deceive Sweden and undermine the asylum system for your own gain, you should not be welcome back. I am also pleased that the Liberals have joined several of our requests and that they want to take real responsibility for issues relating to migration policy. I would also like to endorse Amendment No 2 and, at the same time, say that we naturally support our other reservations.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-180	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4, 5 and 6. Before I go into what my speech is about, I would like to draw attention to something that Jonas Andersson did. He compared Swedes who invest to increase their capital with people seeking asylum. It is a rather remarkable comparison for me of people who are in completely different situations, some of them in situations that we cannot imagine. Having said that, the day is finally here when Parliament can decide on manifestly unfounded applications and the determination of safe countries of origin. It is regrettable that the Migration Agency has not been able to work in accordance with this approach since the EU judgment came in July 2018. It is a good thing that Parliament today can decide on the bill. However, it cannot be said that the government has been quick in dealing with the matter. It has taken the government almost three years to adapt Swedish law to the revised asylum procedure directive's rules on safe countries of origin to enable the Migration Agency to work as before. The fact that the Finnish Immigration Service can consider an asylum application to be manifestly unfounded if the applicant comes from a country that has been included in a list of safe countries of origin is a good thing because it is speeding up the asylum process. The individual is always entitled to a quick decision, but resources should also be allocated to those cases that require more extensive investigations. For the Center Party, it is always important to have a humane and legally secure migration policy. The proposal only applies if the applicant has not provided any serious reasons for the country not to be considered a safe country of origin for him or her. This means that with the proposal we can continue to guarantee individual examination in accordance with the right of asylum, which is fundamental and inviolable. The government does not always, far from always, make the right assessments, nor in migration policy. However, this is a good proposal which will speed up the asylum process and which means that manifestly unfounded applications can be dealt with more quickly, while ensuring individual and legal redress. However, as always in migration policy, there are parties that want to go further. In this case it is the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals together with the Swedish Democrats. The Centre Party does not share the view of the majority committee on a shorter period of appeal and that provisions on safe country of origin should be applicable to parts of a country. Why not? Well, in order to guarantee legal certainty and individual examination, legislation needs to be properly designed so that there is no reason whatsoever to question legal certainty. It is always an important pillar of the Center Party in migration policy. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that this is a step towards a more effective and faster migration policy. It is an important complement to the new migration legislation which we are still awaiting proposals from the government but which have not arrived. I and the Center Party very much hope that it will enter into force on 20 July of this year.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-188	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Mr Cato criticised, among others, the Moderates. In his speech, Jonny Cato said that the Center Party is in favour of a humane and legally secure asylum policy. There is no other party that has said otherwise. In his speech, Mr Cato also points out that this is a good proposal. It only hits 10%, but at the beginning the Minister for Migration said that 30% of last year's asylum applications would be met by proposals. In his speech, Mr Cato also began to say that it should be legally secure and that the entire territory of the country should be safe. Then I have a simple question. Let us take Ukraine as an example. They're in position number two. The distance between Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict is going on, and Kiev's capital is about 75 mil. I have great faith that our courts and our authorities at the Migration Agency can easily make that assessment. However, in the case of a person living in the border conflict, a different assessment may be made. Ukraine is a large country. I do not think we will see a case where a person coming from Lviv, on the border with Poland, is treated in the same way. That would be an unfounded asylum application. Why don't you want to go further, Jonny Cato?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-191	Mr President, I would like to I think that Mr Arin and I can take a slightly different view of what is a fundamentally legal migration policy. I think that, as always in the debate on migration, we want to add to the differences that exist. But I also note that there is actually a large majority in the Swedish Parliament to introduce a safe country list. It is good that there is such a majority. But there are also some suggestions where we differ. If you are to introduce a safe country list, which I think you should do, you need to be absolutely sure that it meets the right people in order to ensure that legal certainty and the right to asylum always apply. The asylum law is fundamental and inviolable for the Center Party. I think it will be a safer system in which legal certainty can be guaranteed if we take whole countries and not parts of countries. Ukraine is an example, but there could later be more difficult examples and more difficult cases where it is perhaps 90% of a country that is insecure and 10% that is safe. Then the assessments are not as obvious. Instead, let us say that we agree that we should have a safe country list in place and that is a good thing. But no– of course the old alliance fellow Moderates always want to show the differences between the Center Party and the Moderates.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-194	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is one of the parties that have been involved and made a mess in Swedish migration policy. Now we come forward and say that we are prepared to take responsibility. That discussion should take the Center Party with itself. No other party shall be responsible for this. An example of what Member Cato points out could be Syria in 2013. If Syria had then been on a list of safe countries, I do not think that the Migration Agency or our Swedish courts would have sent someone back there. We say among other things: Let the government produce the list! Let the government be responsible! Let the Finnish Immigration Service handle the matter! I can inform the honourable Member Jonny Cato that we have independent courts in Sweden that may make an individual assessment if anyone is dissatisfied with their decision by the Migration Agency. The problem with this proposal is that countries such as Ukraine and Georgia, with which we have problems, are not on the list, whereas a country like the United States is on the list. Citizens of the United States receive barely ten unfounded asylum applications per year. The United States is on the list... fine, great! But again: there are more Ukrainian citizens seeking asylum in Sweden than in Somalia and Iraq, where we have armed conflicts. Why should Ukraine be in position two? Mongolia has no armed conflict but is in place five. Thank God Mongolia is on the list. Why do you not dare to create order in migration policy, Jonny Cato? Skip Expressen Debate and make sure to get a bill that is accurate!
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-200	Mr President, I would like to It will be very harsh words and very bombastic rhetoric from the Moderates. Apparently, everything is the Center Party's fault. The Centre Party received 8 per cent in the Parliamentary elections. The memory seems short. Open your hearts, said Arin Karapet's former party leader. The Moderates and the Center Party agreed for a long time on the order that would apply in Swedish migration policy. But all of a sudden, it's just the Center Party's responsibility. In that case, we have been very good negotiators. I find it sad that we cannot instead see the similarities that exist between the Moderates and the Center Party in migration policy. They are often more than what comes out of the debate. You're pretty good at putting this picture, Arin Karapet. It is also interesting that the Moderates already seem to know which countries should be on the list. But it is up to the authorities to make that assessment. I think that is a good thing, because then we can get a smooth and rapid assessment depending on the situation in the outside world and how the situation develops in different countries. Mr President, I would like to I do not think I am going to add to this debate any more. I find it regrettable that the Moderates do not choose to take their own responsibility for the problems that in some cases they have been involved in creating, but blame everything on the Center Party. I hope and believe that we can continue to cooperate genuinely on certain migration issues where we agree. I think this is important for Sweden. I also think it is important for Sweden that we start to see the similarities that exist in migration policy between many parties rather than always choosing a line that sounds good communicative.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-205	Mr President, I would like to What we are discussing here today is about finding the best possible balance between, on the one hand, a legally secure and individual trial that provides protection from war and persecution for those who need it and, on the other hand, an effective and solid asylum process that ensures that the resources of the authorities are used in the best possible way, so that the possibilities for using the asylum system are limited and possible crime is prosecuted. It is a difficult balance, more difficult than it sounds in this House. If the balance is weighted wrong, it risks that people in need of protection will not have access to the asylum process and the protection they are entitled to under conventions and legislation. Since individual human rights and the rule of law surrounding them are at stake, there is reason to be particularly careful and careful when weighing the need for such changes against the risks to the individual and for legal certainty and the view of the asylum process as a whole. In view of the whole of the bill, the Left Party does not think that the government has succeeded in this balancing act. We believe that a number of risks and shortcomings in the proposal weigh too much in relation to what is stated as a reason for the changes that have been put on Parliament's table. We therefore call for the proposal to be rejected in its entirety, that is to say, for the approval of reservation l. Mr President, I would like to Long processing times have been a problem since a large number of people applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015 and even before that. The fact that the processing times were still excessively long in 2020 shows the government's inability to give priority to the issue by providing sufficient resources. The Finnish Immigration Service's stated goal is for the asylum process to take approximately 30 to 90 days in its ordinary form. According to the Authority's latest business forecast, the average processing times for basic cases are expected to be three months in 2022 and 2023. As a result, the proposals put forward in the bill are unlikely to lead to significant differences in the duration of proceedings or to significant financial savings. At least the government hasn't been able to prove that. In the light of the considerable work that will have to be put into the list of safe countries of origin and of the potentially negative effects on legal certainty resulting from the introduction of such a system, we do not think that this is in balance. Similarly, in our view, there is no clear assessment of how many people these fast-track procedures may involve and how it affects legal certainty as a whole. The Minister of Migration said earlier that he saw in front of him that as many as a third of the asylum applications would be affected by this. But from the list now presented by the Migration Agency, it is about a tenth. It is simply unclear and unclear how many people are affected. Obviously unfounded applications should, of course, be rejected, and this must be done in a legally secure manner. This possibility already exists in the current regulatory framework. There are quite other things that need to be developed and done. Instead of spending resources and time on creating a special track for so-called safe countries, with the risks of legal certainty and individual redress involved, the government should make every effort to achieve an asylum process that is robust, legally secure, transparent and fair and which, through its construction, best meets international conventions with processing times that make it possible. There is much to be done, both in a full transparency of the rule of law and in prioritising the use of resources to shorten processing times, to improve the quality of country information and the legal positions that are being developed, and to develop the skills and knowledge acquisition of administrators in relation to child-specific knowledge, LGBTQ issues and so on. Should the proposal nevertheless go through, we in the Left Party in our motion propose a series of improvements to correct the worst imbalances. At the heart of our proposals is the right to public assistance, the identification of particularly vulnerable persons and the right to the special procedure, and the exclusion of children, whether they come alone or in the family, from the rapid process. The Left Party, like the UNHCR's office for Northern Europe, the Save the Children, the Christian Council of Sweden, Amnesty and many others, believes that the proposal risks leading to a deterioration of legal certainty in the asylum process and that reasons that come up late in the process may be missed. Even if safe country lists and traces of manifestly unfounded applications on paper are to maintain the same individual examination, there is an imminent risk that the government, supported by the right-wing parties, through these proposals will create a situation in which the individual finds it very difficult to break an assumption, a presumption, that the application is manifestly unfounded. The fact that the applicant is also proposed to have to do so without access to public assistance will be particularly difficult. We therefore propose that, in these cases too, the applicant should have access to public representation. If we create rapid processes where there is a presumption that applications from some countries are unfounded, we would also like to emphasise, like Amnesty International, that the concept of "serious" reasons cannot be interpreted as meaning that the reasons must be of a more serious nature in order to refute the presumption than is necessary to achieve protective treatment. Although the government believes that this is not the intention, we see a risk that this will happen in practice. We therefore want to make it clear that people seeking asylum and coming from countries that are included in the list of safe countries of origin need not have more serious asylum reasons than others. Mr President, I would like to Children are a particularly vulnerable group, and special protection aspects must be taken into account when children apply for asylum. We do not believe that these aspects can be adequately addressed in the context of accelerated procedures, such as the right of children to be heard in the asylum process and the importance of taking account of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and, in particular, the best interests of the child. Children, whether alone or with their family, shall not be subject to these procedures. We simply do not want to risk missing trafficking or other child-specific protection reasons. Identifying particularly vulnerable persons is central to a legally secure asylum process. Like many other consultation bodies, we believe that people with special procedural guarantees under Article 24(3) of the revised Asylum Procedure Directive need special protection. In this respect, the government needs to produce regulations because the legislative work is lacking in this respect. The government needs to come back with legislation defining who is covered by special procedural guarantees and how best to identify them. Mr President, I would like to As far as the process of drawing up the list is concerned, we believe that a high rate of rejection alone should not be able to justify the inclusion of a country on the list. It is no guarantee that the country will be judged safe for everyone. Looking at the countries that the Migration Board is now proposing to secure countries, it is clear that in Chile, for example, there are great risks to the indigenous population and that Albania, Kosovo and Serbia have a situation for specific LGBTQ people and Roma where the state sometimes lacks both the will and the ability to protect them from persecution. The Left Party also questions the order in which the government is given the ultimate right to decide on the list. The government, as proposed by the bill, would have the mandate to remove the proposed delegation to the Migration Agency and thereby become ultimately responsible for the list itself. We believe that this would lead to a politicisation of the asylum process which would be very problematic. We have a number of other supplementary proposals. But with this, Mr President, I choose to endorse only reservation n number 1 and otherwise support the reservations that we have with S and MP.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-222	Mr President, I would like to In 2014, we launched the Christian Democrats' proposal that Sweden should establish and have a list of so-called safe countries. Seven years later, such a proposal is finally on Parliament's table. It is a proposal that could put an end to the use of the Swedish system. We should therefore perhaps be satisfied, even if it has taken far too long. But the proposal fails to give us the important legislation that Sweden so badly needs. We have some reservations that point to this. However, in order to save time, I only ask for reservation number 7 that the government should investigate the possibility of issuing a return ban in connection with an immediate expulsion order. Mr President, I would like to When we proposed that Sweden should introduce a list of safe countries, the ambition was obvious: to stop the abuse of the asylum system by unauthorised persons from safe countries. We also meant that Sweden would have a target image, for example that a person from Ukraine within 48 hours of the person setting foot in Sweden should be out of the country. But the government did nothing about it. The so-called fast-track procedure was continued, which seemed to work well. This fast-track procedure meant that it took an average of 146 days to deny a person from Georgia who clearly lacked asylum grounds. Between 2012 and 2019 6,989 people from Georgia applied for asylum here in Sweden. It was 75 who got asylum. Thus, the other 6,914 Georgians remained on average in Sweden for 146 days. This has cost taxpayers an enormous amount of money. Please note that it has also delayed the other handling of asylum applications by the Finnish Immigration Service, which has meant a delayed integration for many who have protection reasons and the right to stay in our country. We Christian Democrats hoped that the government would now get to grips with this bill. We should also remember that it is a government that acted under imperative circumstances. But it was not possible – the abuse will now continue here with the Government of Löfven and Minister of Migration Johansson. Mr President, I would like to The proposal we are talking about today is too weak. It lacks important measures that we have put forward as supplementary proposals, but unfortunately they have not, in all respects, won the approval of the committee. The bill is a half-measures that may cheer up criminals from Ukraine and Georgia who want to take their business here to Sweden. This was clear after the Migration Board presented its list of so-called safe countries earlier this month. Ukraine is one of the most common countries of origin for those seeking asylum. There's two on the list. It is not on the list of safe countries, even though only just over 1% of those seeking asylum are granted. Ukraine will thus continue to be at the top of the list of countries of origin, but not on the list of safe countries. Had we been left to the Christian Democrats to decide, the legislation would have better addressed the fraud and abuse that is still taking place with regard to asylum seekers from safe countries of origin. It had limited it quickly and vigorously and eventually stopped it completely. In order to ensure that Ukraine could be included on a list of safe countries, the Christian Democrats have proposed that it should suffice that only parts of a country be classified as safe for it to be included on such a list. We presented this to the government long before the Migration Agency excluded Ukraine from the list. We also want to enable the list of safe countries to include specific persons or groups that may be unsafe or safe. In some countries, for example, it may be a danger only to a woman to return. In other countries it may be a danger for a minority to return. I am also thinking of the situation of all converts, people who have left Islam for Christian faith. Here they can also have protection reasons. However, we have an individual assessment in each individual case, which I think has partly disappeared in the debate. However, it should be reasonable, we believe, for such a list to be drawn up, to be able to strike such a balance. Mr President, I would like to There are a number of problems that, as the government proposes, the Migration Agency should bear the main responsibility for the list. The most obvious thing is that it doesn't turn out the way it was supposed to. Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson said in this House as late as December last year, in a debate on Ukrainian asylum seekers who abuse the switch of tracks, that this will work out once the list of safe countries is in place. We just found out it wasn't true. The second problem with the Migration Agency having this mission is the Authority's dual role. The authority is thus given the task of both deciding on the list of safe countries and acting as the individual's counterpart in a court case. The Swedish Bar Association has pointed this out and believes that it is highly questionable from the point of view of legal certainty. However, it is not enough simply to introduce a list to counter unfounded asylum applications and abuses. We also need to look at a number of other issues in a number of other areas. One such example is the change of track, which must be abolished but which, under the current government, will both be developed and simplified. Last but not least, Mr President, we Christian Democrats believe that the government should investigate the possibility of issuing a return ban like countries such as Germany, Norway and Finland. A return ban could provide formal means of blocking people in the Schengen Information System, the SIS, following a refusal and thus also allow them to be rejected even at external borders if they try to re-enter the Schengen area.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-236	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the issue of safe countries and obviously unfounded asylum applications. First of all, I would like to say that a legal, predictable and transparent process in asylum cases is of the utmost importance. Anyone who comes to Sweden as an asylum seeker should know what applies. Information about the process will be provided and an assessment will be made at a later stage. The asylum seeker shall be granted asylum. If you do not have it, you do not have the right to stay in Sweden. In this context, I would also like to point out that the regulatory framework says that it is the asylum seeker who has the burden of proof vis-à-vis the authority and the court. You have to present the evidence yourself that you have a basis for asylum. Until 2018, there was a procedure with faster handling for those who have manifestly unfounded applications. It was abolished following a judgment by the European Court of Justice. With the change that we are likely to make in Parliament today, this will again be possible for those who come from countries that are on a list drawn up by the Migration Agency. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is the reason why this proposal is being drawn up? Well, it's about the processing times. How long or short they are in asylum cases is an important issue in itself. Shortening the time for those who are clearly not going to receive asylum leads to reduced processing and shorter time when conditions do not exist. This does not mean that the individual right of asylum is narrowed down. The applicant for asylum shall have his/her application granted, even if he/she is from a country on the list. Even in a situation where 95%, 97% or even more are rejected, there are still 5%, 3% or even fewer people who actually have asylum reasons, and for those people it is important that this right is intact and secure. Mr President, I would like to It is the Migration Agency that is responsible for producing this list. We have heard in the debate that several parties want to see a different order. However, the management model we have in Sweden where expert authorities have far-reaching powers is a good order. It would be unfortunate to politicise this by allowing the government to produce the list. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse reservations 4, 5 and 6. I know that it is not really the practice to call for a number of reservations. In this case, I am doing so because we have a so-called false majority, where the majority of the committee is different from the majority in this House, if the parties follow what they have said before. That's why there's a reason to do this.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-243	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. It's good if someone does, too. Liberals are in fact the only party in today's debate that has no reservation on the report. This does not mean that we consider everything to be peace and joy, but we still find it reasonable and balanced in the end. This, Mr President, is about Sweden having a model for how we deal with people who come to Sweden and seek asylum when it is quite clear that there are no asylum grounds. The Finnish Immigration Service has had a system to handle this so that people return quickly. It is only that the model Sweden has had has failed in the European Court of Justice. Instead, we must implement what is called the Asylum Procedure Directive, or even more correctly the revised Asylum Procedure Directive, which is one of the European Union's key acts in the field of asylum. In doing so, we are going to draw up a list of a number of countries that are safe to return to, which will mean that we will come back on track, so to speak – back to a model where people who are seeking asylum are clearly unwarrantedly able to return quickly. From this verdict a few years ago – I think it came sometime in the summer of 2018 – and until now Sweden has not had a way of dealing with this. Is it, then, a problem, Mr President, that people are obviously unwarrantedly seeking asylum? We can look at the figures presented by the Christian Democrats here in the pulpit. Over 6 000 people from Georgia had applied for asylum in Sweden in recent years, and only 75 had received approval. If we look at last year's figures on Ukraine, for example, we can see that there were 575 asylum applications, of which 5 were granted. In the case of Uzbeker, there were 1 377 asylum applications and 29 consents. So we have a situation in Sweden where large groups of people come from certain specific countries and seek asylum. This creates a burden on our responsible authority, the Migration Agency, and of course also on our social economy. But above all it affects all those people who really have protection needs: refugees who come to Sweden, who need support and help and who we want to be able to give a good future in Sweden, which we need to mobilize power and energy in order to be able to do. It will be very difficult to prioritise them if our system is burdened by thousands of asylum applications that are manifestly unfounded. Mr President, I would like to I have noted in a number of speeches in the past and also in line here in the debate that the question of Ukraine, for example, comes up. It's a little complicated, so you listeners have to poke your ears. In the revised Asylum Procedures Directive, there is a departure from the First Asylum Procedure Directive which can be interpreted as meaning that a country in which there is an armed conflict in any part of the country cannot be considered as a safe country at all. Examples include the conflict in Donetsk and Luhansk in the eastern part of Ukraine and, in the past, Chechnya in the Russian Federation. Now Russia may not be regarded as a safe country, but this can exemplify a conflict in a part of a country. The reserves, in this case the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Center Party, maintain the government's view in the bill that Sweden cannot regard Ukraine and Georgia as safe countries, for example. I think that one should look a little more closely, Mr President, because that assessment does not make many other EU countries. Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, for example, make a different assessment and consider it possible to return to Kiev, for example. It is not estimated that war is going on in Kiev today. It is, by the way, a very nice and nice city. If we want this system to work, that is to say, to create a rapid return for people who obviously do not have asylum grounds and obviously do not have grounds for asylum coming to Sweden and seeking asylum, then the countries from which the most people come and who obviously do not apply for asylum must also be on the list. Otherwise, this will be rather toothless. If it is just Canada, Australia, the United States and some other countries on the list, it will not be very effective and will not have the impact that we want it to have. Mr President, I would like to It is somewhat surprising that this has taken so much time for the government. We shall bear in mind that we have a responsible authority in Sweden, the Migration Agency, which has had an enormous burden in recent years as a result of a refugee crisis and many other things. It is an authority that is properly exposed in that you have a high load, work very close to people, have an enormous amount of individual matters and are constantly in the bullet hole in different ways. If a government is to be able to govern such an authority, I think it is important that it also has reasonable regulations and regulations and can carry out its task in a reasonable manner. Here one must question whether the government has given the Migration Agency those opportunities. First of all, it was not the Migration Agency but the government that was responsible for how Sweden handled the entire process – which Sweden lost – in the EU Court of Justice, and then the government has not been able to actually get this legislation out in time. I think it deserves quite a lot of criticism. Mr President, I would like to In addition, in the end, this issue cannot be seen in isolation. The issue of promoting a faster and more effective return of persons who are clearly unwarrantedly seeking asylum is linked to our entire system, for this affects, for example, questions about the functioning of the courts, day pay, change of track and detention. Not least, if this does not work when we take resources from those in need of protection and give them resources to people who do not have a need for protection, it will have major displacement effects. It's not a reasonable order. We can't have that.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-254	Mr President, I would like to I think that the Liberals have moved in a number of ways in the wrong direction in migration policy over the past year. But there are also several parts where I think Liberaler na overall and not least Fredrik Malm has sound opinions and drives good issues that they have a strong commitment to. It is particularly important to fight for and support democratic movements and others who are fighting for human rights in a number of countries where it is in no way harmless to do so. In this discussion we have touched on some of the countries that are considered safe or not safe so far in the process that the Migration Agency has come, and there has been a discussion about armed conflicts, parts of countries and the like. I and Fredrik Malm can easily, at least when the Corona does not restrict us, take a flight to Moscow, Kiev or some other places, Mr President, but that does not mean that it is safe for everyone who lives there. Even in a country where there is no armed conflict, parts of the population and not least democracy activists and others who are fighting for human rights can be extremely exposed to pressure from repressive regimes. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Fredrik Malm if he agrees with this description of the problem. And does Fredrik Malm see a risk that a very rapid execution would mean that democracy activists, for example, do not get a fair trial?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-257	Mr President, I would like to I don't really understand the question. This is, of course, a question of manifestly unfounded asylum applications and of everyone still being examined. If we have 4 000, 5 000 or 6 000 people who have come from one country and perhaps 50 of them have received approval while the rest have been rejected and there are large groups of people coming from a completely different part of the same country, where there are no battles, then a balance must be struck between how Sweden can get a workable and sustainable migration policy and a sustainable order. This is not about people who are democracy activists. If you are a democracy activist, you will have your test. You have the right to apply for asylum, and there is always an individual examination. You also have the right to appeal in this system. However, this is aimed at us getting an order when it comes to large groups of people coming to Sweden and obviously unwarrantedly seeking asylum, putting pressure on our system and in different ways perhaps trying to use loopholes. As far as Ukraine is concerned, you may have received various types of advice on the internet via some kind of agency that claims to come to actually get a work permit. I think it is wrong, Mr President, to confuse this problem that we are discussing now with the issue of people who really need protection. That's something completely different.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-260	Mr President, I would like to It is the asylum seeker who is responsible for proving that there are grounds for asylum. It is a reasonable order, and I do not think it can be in any other way. But that in itself also means that you can very well be threatened without being able to prove it. It is possible to defend that order and at the same time see a problem in it and want to ensure that the justice system is as legally secure as possible. Fredrik Malm says that there were 50 applications for asylum from one country and that there were several thousand applicants. These 50 are a small part of the statistics, but there are still 50 individuals. If we change this system, I still think that we need to have a check so that it does not rush through and we have a situation where matters are dealt with quickly and the applicants are denied a rejection which they, if they had had more time to show on their asylum grounds, would not really get. I hope, Mr President, that Fredrik Malm will take this a little more seriously than I think he is expressing and yet want to follow this in the future to ensure that it does not happen in the way I describe.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-263	Mr President, I would like to We're not going to rush through this-- no, that's not something you can blame the government for doing anyway. You have to look for the husband of sobriety! It has certainly tried to do everything not to put forward this proposal, which is very remarkable. The 50 or 75 people referred to – there are a little different figures for different countries – are people who have been allowed to stay and who I expect could stay in Sweden even in the future. I am simply saying that if we have a situation in a country in Europe where there is an isolated conflict in a particular part of the country, it is clear that a person coming from the war zone must be judged differently from a person coming from the other end of the country who lacks asylum and protection needs and can therefore very well return. Then it is a little strange that a minority in the Social Security Committee, certainly, but a majority in this House thinks it is very important that such a person should be in Sweden anyway. The Green Party thinks as they think, but I would have expected the Social Democrats to be prepared to take a little more responsibility for Sweden as a nation and for the fact that we actually have a working and sustainable migration process in this area too.
i-6THPqVpK3EVaDFvPHCUWyV	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report 2020/ 21:SfU16 which deals with the motions and proposals for pensions received. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a number of proposals to strengthen and raise our pensions. Fundamental to us in our social-conservative political orientation is that Sweden should be a country with a strong and secure well-being, where we treat those who worked and toiled and built this country with respect and respect and give them economic security. It is unworthy and unacceptable that there are older people living on the poverty line today. We have therefore proposed in the past in our budget an increase in the guarantee pension by an additional SEK 800 per month. In a report on social security contributions, we have highlighted the importance of the government seizing and investigating the possibility of strengthening pension provision into the pension system so that those who worked and worked in a whole life will then receive a larger share of their salary in retirement. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I think that an open, public debate on our pensions today usually shines with its absence. It is therefore welcome to have this debate in committee, where we deal with our motions, once a year, as well as the budget debate on pensions. In 1991, a pension group was set up to safeguard the pension agreement. Finding long-term solutions for our pensions so that pensions can be strengthened has, of course, a good purpose. However, as one of the two parties that are not members of the Pensions Group, I would like to say that the Group must not remove the possibility of an open and transparent debate on which reforms need to be implemented. Unfortunately, I must also say that I am not entirely satisfied with what the group has achieved since 1991, because today we have a situation where it is completely boiling among the country's elderly and pensioners. Mr President, I would like to One of the reforms agreed by the Pensions Group was to raise the retirement age. This has now also been done by introducing a new, general target age for pensions which will gradually escalate. Of course, there is a logic in us being able to work further up the age line as we live longer. However, we believe that this general increase does not take into account the fact that there is not a single common retirement age suitable for all individuals and all occupational groups. Those who are worn out as a result of a long and demanding working life should not be forced to stay in the labour market against their will and health. In addition, there have been reports showing that it does not have as much effect on pensions as might have been expected. Mantrat, work longer, more pension, not everyone can see fit, especially for broad professional groups such as bus drivers, child care workers, nurses and cleaners. Two extra working years after 65 are often only about a few small hundreds per month in retirement, showing calculations that SPF Seniors have made. Mr President, I would like to We believe that longer-age work should be achieved through a much greater degree of flexibility and targeted incentives rather than by coercion, for example through the right to go down part-time or through the introduction of a special job tax credit for older people who voluntarily remain in the labour market. We would therefore like to ask the government to tear up the reform to introduce a new and higher retirement age and instead to introduce positive incentives to work further up the age bracket. Mr President, I would like to Another reform that the government, together with the Pensions Group, wants to implement is to severely restrict the freedom of choice within the premium pension. On 1 November 2018, more stringent demands came from the government on the funds that exist in today's system. In a second step, in November 2019 an investigation proposal was submitted on the regulatory framework for a new controlled procured fund square and on the regulation of a responsible authority. The work will be completed on 31 August 2021, slightly later than originally intended. The stricter requirements imposed on funds in 2018 in what is sometimes called step one were good and necessary requirements to overcome fraudulent behaviour, unethical marketing and difficulties for consumers to get accurate information in their premium pension savings. The Swedish democrats, on the other hand, are critical of the reform in stage two for a number of reasons. This reform runs the risk of reducing the pension provision of future pensioners and drastically restricting their freedom of choice for pension savings. In addition, the future fund square will significantly decimate the supply of funds. Through its restructuring and governance, it will have a drastic impact on eligibility. This leads, among other things, to larger, global index funds being rewarded over smaller corporate funds. Currently, approximately SEK 290 billion, almost 20 per cent, of the premium pension capital is invested in Swedish shares. This should be contrasted with the proposal by the government and the pension group, where only 1 per cent is invested in Swedish shares. Especially during and after the Corona crisis, the reform could be devastating not only for individual pensioners' premium pension but also for Swedish entrepreneurship, where many are already on their knees. We therefore believe that the government should not proceed with this premium pension reform but instead follow up and evaluate the results of the demands made on funds in 2018 to address what was the problem from the outset, namely unethical marketing and fraud. Limiting freedom of choice and hitting Swedish companies in this way is not the way to go. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to touch on a subject that has received a lot of attention recently, namely the importance of equal pensions. The report Why do women and men have different levels of income pension? from the Pension Agency shows that over time women have taken greater responsibility for unpaid work during early childhood and that both parental leave and, in particular, part-time work have a negative impact on future pension income. Another important difference between women's and men's time at work is that women are more absent than men because of illness. Women often work in workplaces where the psychosocial work environment is very demanding. They often have human-care professions or service professions that require both commitment and competence, while the influence over their own work situation is sometimes very limited, which can lead to burn-out and sick leave. We also see this in the very worrying increase in the number of women on sick leave due to mental illness. Mr President, I would like to There are two ways of tackling this problem. One way the government has adopted is to assume that women themselves are not capable of deciding how much time they want to spend with their children and their family during the early childhood years. It is believed that it is forced and something that should be forced away by legislative quotas of parental insurance. We do not deny that such situations may exist, nor do we deny that joint and divided parental responsibility is positive. However, we believe that the starting point must be that families themselves have the choice to distribute parental insurance and working hours. On the other hand, it is quite unreasonable that increased responsibility for family and children, whether it is a woman or a man who takes that responsibility, should adversely affect pensions to the extent that it does today. Instead, the Swedish Democrats see it as self-evident that parental leave and part-time work in order to give children a more decent life during childhood years is something that should be valued higher and have the least possible negative effect on pensions. Here we have put forward proposals that the government needs to investigate how we can really strengthen the conditions for this, including by strengthening pension rights for children's years and in other ways encouraging time with the family instead of quotas away. We also want the government to work towards more equal conditions in working life to prevent sick leave. Mr. Old President! I would like to say something briefly about survivors' support and the requirement for a guarantee pension. An orphan's pension is financial support that is paid automatically to the child in cases where both the child and the parent concerned have resided in Sweden at the time of death. If the parent is not considered to be resident in Sweden, an application is required, and that is what is called survivor's allowance. In the past, we have had a series of proposals to demand certification that the parent who lives in another country has died. We have also demanded that there should be a Swedish citizenship. This report deals with proposals that survivors' benefits currently paid to children receiving support from the public and living in the home of HVB should not receive survivor's benefits because there are similar rules for maintenance aid that are not paid when it is provided by the public. Here are proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs to be presented in a proposal in May. We assume that this will happen. This also applies to the abolition of an exception allowing refugees and certain other insured persons to be credited with their residence in their former home country. That is also something we want to remove. There is also an investigation from the government that proposes to proceed with the proposal, and we look forward to the proposal being put on the table of Parliament.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-288	Mr. Old President! Sweden has a pension system that I believe we should protect. It is based on the principle that it should be self-financed and that each generation should bear its costs. The idea of the general pension and fund savings is that pension money should be able to grow. This has been successful since the early 1990s in that the fund system has contributed to additional funds that have led to viable growth. This is then added to occupational pensions and private savings. Of course, there have been fund companies that have mismanaged their assignment, but the Pension Authority has tightened up its management to reduce the risk. In the run-up to the new procurements, additional quality requirements will be imposed. But it is important that there is freedom of choice in terms of the number of funds to choose from, and it is important both for the saver and for the capital of the Swedish companies, among others. The pension system also invests money in Swedish companies that get a chance to grow and develop. This, in turn, generates innovations and more jobs and, in the long run, increases deposits into the pension system. Mr. Old President! In order for the pension system to remain sustainable, more money needs to be added to the system. The Government will present the final basis for gradually raising the target age for retirement. It is relevant that when we live longer and longer we also work longer. We can also put it in relation to entering the labour market more and more later in life, and then we need more years in the labour market to generate funds for our own pension. But it is also a question of investigating more ways of getting more money into the system within the framework of the Pensions Group's work. There are several different proposals for this, but exactly what is expected and what is sustainable in the long term needs to be investigated. I expect the government, led by Ardalan Shekarabi, to ensure that there will be a joint work in the Pensions Group on this subject. Mr. Old President! Just talking about pensions in order to have a sustainable system is not enough. We also need to work towards a good working environment so that you enjoy your work and have the opportunity to develop. This also applies to the possibility of re-training during their working life. I am pleased that, within the framework of the agreement negotiated between the social partners, proposals have also been made in these very areas of skills and conversion aid. You should also be able to train later during your working life with the support of government funding. The government is currently developing concrete examples, thanks to the fact that the Center Party has worked hard for these reforms. Planning your professional life is just as important as planning your accommodation. If it is to be sustainable in the long run, I need, and can, even late in life change profession. It is important that we believe in the equal value and weight of all people in the labour market. Just because you have passed a certain age does not mean you are in the labour market. I am working to enable us to study higher up in the age group and strengthen the employee's future in the labour market. There are many who want and can contribute even after they reach the age of 70. My mother is an example. She didn't retire until she was 77. Mr. Old President! Another important area in terms of sustainable pension is that knowledge of how my life choices affect my pension needs to be increased. How does it affect when I am on parental leave, work part-time, run businesses and more? Today, there is a great lack of knowledge about these elements, and the knowledge of sharing the premium pension between married parents is also low. Here, the Center Party wants to see more knowledge among parents, self-employed people and students about how different life choices affect the pension. As life choices in many families still result in women taking a greater share of parental leave than men, it is thus the early years that lead to lower pensions for women in particular. This can be countered by the basic rule being that you share the premium pension equally during the early childhood years. In practice, this means that no matter who works, the payments are divided equally between the spouses. However, it does not affect the wage development of those who are absent from the labour market, so this is not the whole solution. We have to remember that. In order to receive equal pensions, we have to work in several different areas. Among other things, we need to work with attitudes in society and because the presence of the man in the family is equally important to the child. It requires active work by today's young men and women to break the norms of society, and we can also contribute from the Riksdag when we talk about what happens in connection with a child's birth in a family. A change of law that means that both parents automatically become guardians is needed to show that both parents are equal from the beginning. It may seem to be a detail outside the scope of this report, but it is nevertheless important to point out equality of parenthood – which, in its extension, contributes to more equal pensions. It is important to safeguard the basic principle of the pension system, namely that each generation finances its pension, that pensions are independent from the urban budget and that it is based on freedom of choice through fund choices in order to achieve further growth in its pension. Occupational pension and own pension savings are important in order to receive a higher pension when I leave my professional life. I support reservation 2, which includes information on the impact of life choices on pensions.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-299	Mr. Old President! The pensioners have had to stand back this year. The Coronapandemia has greatly restricted the lives of 70-plusers. The difference between people continues to grow. We're getting older, they say. But it doesn't apply to everyone. We're not gonna die at the same time, you and me. The increase in class differences has led to even a fall in the life expectancy of short-term educated women. You can take the metro here in Stockholm and go from high life to lower life. For those we applauded earlier, our so-called coronah heroes who work in health care and care, the increase in the retirement age previously decided by the government and the bourgeois parties, which began last year, only means that they are allowed to work longer and longer of their ever shorter lives. Freedom after working life is relative. Let's just say it's the way it is. How can an increase in the retirement age be achieved when the body of many of us is not even able to work until the age of 65? On the contrary, the trend today is that working life is becoming increasingly tougher and that more and more people choose to retire earlier, despite the fact that it is economically very unfavorable. That should be taken care of. The pension system does not work – not because the retirement age has been too low, but because pensions are too low. Every fourth person gets anxiety from getting home their orange coloured envelope, and 13-year-olds feel they need to start saving for their pension now. That is a legitimate concern. Those who retire today will receive only half their salary. Mr. Old President! The truth is that the inequality of the Swedish pension system is similar to that of the Chilean pension system. In Chile, those with the lowest pension can no longer live on it, and 80-year-olds work to survive. Here in Stockholm we see pensioners who collect cans and many who need help to get food on the table. One of the movements that is part of Chile's social uprising is the movement for a fairer pension system. Today, no one believes in the Chilean pension system anymore. It only benefits businesses, not pensioners. It has gone so far that Chileans have taken their pension early. You empty the pension fund. I hope, of course, that we will not end up in Chile's situation but that we will manage to change our pension system so that people will regain confidence in it. Why is it always the elderly who are going to get worse? They have toiled and built the country but have to pay when those who already have should have even more. It's shameful. Today we Swedes work the longest throughout the EU. At the same time, we are at the bottom of the issue of the level of pensions. We have the largest share of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Nearly half of all women who are old-age pensioners today have a guarantee pension, i.e. the lowest level of state protection. The reason for the problem of the pension system is that it is underfunded. That is the main reason why it provides such low pensions. This has a significantly greater impact than retirement age. That's why you can work a whole life and still get a pension that's not more than half your salary. The Left Party wants payments to be increased to the pension system. The tax should also be equal regardless of what the income is called. The penalty tax paid by pensioners today is to be removed and the tax gap between pensioners and other wage earners is to be closed. It must be possible to live on your pension after an entire working life. Mr. Old President! Sweden is today the country in the Nordic countries with the highest proportion of poor pensioners. The proportion of poor pensioners in Sweden is also higher than the EU average, according to Eurostat figures. In 2018, about one in five women and one in ten over 65 had a disposable income below 60 per cent of the median income, i.e. the limit of relative poverty. Over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty line. Women receive an average of 69% of men's pensions, and the difference increases with age. Every other female pensioner has a guarantee pension because the income pension is so low. The guarantee pension is currently designed so that those living on guarantee pensions fall behind the rest of the population. Since the introduction of the guarantee pension in 2003, pensioners with guarantee pensions have, on average, experienced a real income increase of 15 % compared with 45 % for employed workers. This means that this group gets poorer every year. The government is creating increased inequality. This can be seen not least in the budget proposals previously put on Parliament's table. While far too little is being done for pensioners, taxes are being reduced for the already wealthy. The removal of the military tax costs just over 6 billion a year. For just over half that amount, we could have accepted our proposal and given substantial increases in the pensions of those who built up our country. Instead, the government has chosen to give more to those with the highest incomes. The pensioners will have to wait – again. Mr. Old President! Every pensioner should be able to afford to live well. You should be able to give birthday gifts to your grandchildren and the extra gold edge to yourself. You should be able to have activities, buy monthly cards for public transport, meet friends and eat a little better food. You should be able to live, not just survive. Only the best is good enough for pensioners. The Left Party wants to raise pensions. We want another pension system, a fair pension system that provides real financial security when working life is over. It has to be done again. Increase payments to the system and ensure that there is a fair distribution between pensioners! That is what we propose. The Left does not distinguish between pensioners and pensioners. That is why, of course, we are also proposing that the compensation be increased and that the penalty tax be removed for the country's so-called sickness pensioners. In addition, they shall also be covered by the raised ceiling of the housing supplement. We also want to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 800 per month in a first step. This would be of particular benefit to working women. We are told that this is bad because the distance of respect is not maintained. But that distance can't be maintained by those who have little getting even less? It's crazy politics. It's not taking responsibility. Women who have worked part-time to care for children and family should not have to pay a high price for it. The Left Party here disagrees with, among other things, the Christian Democrats, whose party leaders say about women who receive low pensions: The importance of these women's career choices is completely ignored. Mr. Old President! So let the last sweet years be the best in our lives, not all of us today. The Left Party wants to change that. I support both left-wing reservations, but I only support reservation 3 in paragraph 1.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-320	Mr. Old President! A good pension for current and future pensioners is the aim of the Christian Democrats. We want a retirement-friendly pension system that provides financial security, and that is not entirely where we are today. We Christian Democrats are therefore working in the short and long term to bring about changes in the pension system that will enable everyone to feel financial security in the autumn of their age. How we do this is explained in detail in our exercise on pensions. However, in order to save time, I would simply like to endorse the joint reservation that we have with the Center Party on an automatically shared premium pension for parents, which is one of our proposals to create more equal pensions. So it's reservation number 5. We Christian Democrats have long been the driving force to create a better economy for our pensioners. During the alliance governments in 2006 – 2014, we negotiated five tax cuts for pensioners and three increases in the housing supplement. We have been involved in the Pensions Group in ensuring that the guarantee pension has recently been increased, as well as the ceiling in the housing supplement. Together with the Moderates, in 2019 we abolished the special salary tax for the elderly, introduced by our current government – an extra tax for seniors who can and want to work a little longer after retirement and continue as a nurse, teacher, nurse, craftsman and so on. We Christian Democrats have been putting forward, time after time, in our budgets, fully funded proposals for removing the difference in taxation on labour and pensions for several years. We have also made regular proposals for a reinforced employment tax deduction for people aged 69 and over, to send clear signals to the Swedish labour market that the seniors who are able to and want to be able to work. But it should also be a signal directed to these seniors' wallets. You get a financial encouragement if you make a contribution. If you have 20 000 crowns a month's salary, that would mean a thousand dollars more in your wallet for those who can and will. Mr. Old President! I will start by mentioning these examples so that anyone who then wants can easily check this and see that the Christian Democrats are giving priority to the situation of the elderly, not only when it is time for the election movement. Mr. Old President! The Christian Democrats' budgetary options in this area of expenditure also mean that we remove the exception rule for refugees and other persons in need of protection when it comes to the qualification for guarantee pension. The guarantee pension scheme is a defined benefit security for those who have had low or no earned income during life. However, a person must have lived in Sweden for at least three years in order to be entitled to a guarantee pension. In order to receive a full guarantee pension, the person must have lived for 40 years in Sweden and have worked for at least 40 years from the date of his 16th birthday to the year of his 64th birthday. Today, however, there are special rules allowing persons who are granted a residence permit to count their time in their country of origin. The Christian Democrats believe that this opt-out rule should be removed, as the Guarantee pension inquiry also proposed the other year. This means that these people, like others who have not qualified for a guarantee pension, will instead receive old-age support. All in all, this would mean a saving of about half a billion dollars. We also have with a strengthening of the economy for pensioners with small margins through a further increase in the ceiling for the housing supplement, to SEK 7 500 for single people and SEK 3 750 for people living together. Mr. Old President! I would also like to conclude this year by mentioning that we must give priority to work on equal pensions. Female old-age pensioners generally have lower pensions than men. This is mainly due to the fact that women have fewer years in the labour market and an average lower employment rate, inequalities in the wage structure and the fact that men and women are found in different occupations. One of several proposals that we have is that the premium pension should automatically be divided equally between parents, which is exactly the opposite of how it works today. If you do not want to share equally, you can, we mean, actively apply for this. Married couples or registered partners shall be able to transfer the premium pension to each other. You can already do that today, but few people know about it. It is a pity that if this were used more widely, the gap between women's and men's pensions would narrow. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that, for reasons of equality, we should move forward and ensure that the premium pension is automatically shared equally. We say that rule should apply as long as the joint children are not 12 years old. Mr. Old President! We have now heard in the debate that we need to increase pension contributions in order to raise pensions, and we have heard that the pension system is underfunded. I would remind Members that the solvency surplus in the income pension is currently over SEK 800 billion; it is all time high. It is not an underfunded income pension system that is the problem. I want to say that as a correction because this is stated in the debate, but that is not true. We have a solvency surplus of SEK 800 billion right now.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-332	Mr. Old President! Retirement should be something to be enjoyed – a newfound freedom with more time for the grandchildren and opportunity and to enjoy the morning coffee without having to hurry away. You should be able to enjoy life and feel financial security in the pension you have earned during a long working life. Some pensioners are well off and can enjoy life. But there are many other pensioners who twist and turn every crown. Injustice, inequality and inequality in society and not least in the labour market are also reflected in the pension envelope. Low pay, poor conditions and a lot of part-time work give you too low a pension. For us Social Democrats, it is clear that pensions must be increased, for both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. That is why we need to make improvements to the pension system but also to change the structures. In fact, they have at least the same impact on pensions. So far, this term of office has made several improvements in the area of pensions. Step by step we have worked out the unfair regime introduced by the old moderate-led government, which meant that pensioners had to pay higher taxes than those who work. It was, of course, a completely unreasonable scheme because pensions are deferred wages and are to be taxed equally. With a broad consensus in the Pensions Group, we also made a historic effort last year to increase the guarantee pension and the ceiling for the housing supplement, which gave a very welcome addition to the pensioners who have the worst position. For many, this meant well over $1,000 a month. And not least, perhaps the most important electoral promise of the Social Democrats for this term of office is fulfilled: the pension supplement will start to be paid in September to about half of the country's pensioners. It goes to those who have worked and worn out a whole working life but still receive a low pension. It is about nurses, cleaners, bus drivers, child care workers and many more, who have been squeaking on, day in and day out, despite low pay and many times bad conditions. For them, the pension is increased by up to SEK 600 per month. The maximum amount, over SEK 7 000 a year, is directed precisely at those who have worked a full working life but still receive a general pension that is as low as between SEK 11 000 and SEK 14 000 a month. Let me also make it clear, so that there is no misunderstanding whatsoever, that the small increase in pensions that came at the beginning of the year had nothing to do with the pension supplement. It was the usual indexation that takes place every year. The pension allowance will start to be paid in September. All the things I have mentioned have been important steps in the right direction, but that is not enough. Pensions must continue to rise, and we Social Democrats have set the goal of all of us eventually getting at least 70% of their final salary. Mr. Old President! We basically have a robust and sustainable pension system. But despite its stability, it delivers far too low pensions for many of the country's pensioners. This is mainly due to two factors. One is that the pension system is underfunded in the sense that we do not actually pay the 18.5% of the salary that was originally decided. This is what was initially considered to be necessary in order to maintain reasonable levels of pensions. That is why we Social Democrats want to increase contributions to the pension system. We have been pushing on this issue for several years, but so far there have been no political conditions to get the proposal through here in Parliament. I can only regret this once again, but at the same time I am pleased that we have now agreed between the parties in the cross-block Pensions Group that we are now in the near future – not a day too soon! – is going to review the level of fees. For us Social Democrats, this is a matter of great urgency and priority. The second reason for the under-retirement levels is something that is fundamentally very gratifying, namely that more and more people are living longer and longer. Only in this debate will the average life expectancy in our country increase by about ten minutes. That's how fast it goes. It is, of course, a great success for our society and our country, but living longer also means that the pension we earn through working life must be sufficient for more and more years as a pensioner. That is why we must ensure that more people are able to cope with a longer working life. In this way, working conditions must be improved and the possibilities for changing careers increased. And those who are sick or worn out prematurely must feel secure from surrounding social security. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, but many people are forced to take their old-age pension early, even though the penalty is a low pension for the rest of their lives, even by an economic shock. Yes, it is reasonable that the increase in life expectancy means a slightly longer working life, but at the same time a valve is needed so that people who are prematurely worn out can end their working lives with dignity and receive a decent pension. Sweden is one of the few comparable countries that do not have such a valve. In addition, we have a regulatory framework that is so restrictive that it is almost impossible to be granted sickness benefit. We Social Democrats think that this is unreasonable. We don't want it to continue to be that way. That is why the government has set up an investigation that focuses precisely on this problem. However, it will be necessary for more parties to be prepared to make changes. I hope so. We have reason to come back to this in other contexts. Mr. Old President! We Social Democrats have through time fought hard for pensions. In the 50s and 60s, ATP was the solution to the poverty that would otherwise have been the reality for many Swedes. A few decades later, instead, we faced the risk of rolling over large debts on future pensioners and breaking the generation contract. This is why the new and more sustainable pension system was launched in broad agreement around the turn of the millennium. But when more than 20 years have passed, we see a new reality with new problems. Today, public pension provision is too poor, and this means more reliance on occupational pensions. The collective pension scheme is a very important part of our pension system. It's supposed to be protected. However, not everyone has an occupational pension, and it also tends to benefit high-income workers more than workers, who usually already have a lower general pension. My point is therefore that a good occupational pension must not mean acceptance of a low general pension. On the contrary, it must be increased, and we Social Democrats will continue to fight hard for that. Anyone who has worked and contributed to our society and built Sweden to the amazing country it is should be able to retire and feel secure with a reasonable income. One should be able to go to the theatre or at a football match – when the pandemic allows, it is best to add. You should be able to visit your grandchildren in another part of Sweden. Retirement is supposed to mean freedom. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-350	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Carvalho, for your speech. After all, the Social Democrats and the Pensions Group have made progress with the reform to raise the target age for retirement. At the same time, the Social Democrats say they are protecting the working class. It's a bit of your mantra. That is why I am surprised by the reform, because it strikes very hard at hard-working industrial workers, nurses, cleaners and others who are not able to work as high up in their ages. Although we can live longer, not all of us have the same opportunity to work further up in their ages. In these professions you get more worn out and may have to retire at a slightly lower age. It has also come to light that the same group does not make much money working longer at all. Maybe it'll just give a couple of cheap hundred bucks extra in retirement. What is the response of the Social Democrats to this? Why is it so important to raise the age of wealth? Instead, why not create positive incentives for those who want and are able to work further up the age range? There should be more opportunity to work part-time, more opportunities for job tax deductions and such reforms instead. The rise in the age of richness is hitting very hard. Why do the Social Democrats want to stand firm to gradually raise the current age of guidance? It will hit those who work hard in hard jobs. I also think it is good that you should be able to receive sickness benefit, but it is, of course, during the time of the Social Democrats in power that the assessments have been so harsh that it is almost impossible to receive sickness benefit. Today, therefore, you find yourself in a very difficult position when you can neither retire nor receive sickness benefits.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-355	Mr. Old President! There were many d elar in the line from Julia Kronlid, but I will do my best to be able to meet all the parts. As regards the age limits in the pension system, I would like to say that we have a robust and sustainable pension system. This means, among other things, a flexible retirement age. However, there is a minimum age for when you are able to withdraw your general pension, and I think that is reasonable. I also think it is reasonable that the minimum age should be shifted as life expectancy increases. On the other hand, it is extremely important that those who become ill or worn out prematurely and do not have the opportunity to remain in work should be caught up by other security systems. It is not reasonable to have to spend money on your pension if you have to leave working life prematurely. It will have the effect of having a very low pension for the rest of your life. This doesn't make sense. There must be other security systems to catch this up. It is also our Social Democratic policy. I am saddened when I hear Julia Kronlid say that it is we Social Democrats who have made harsher assessments of sickness benefits. That is simply not true. The law hasn't changed. On the other hand, application has been tightened in a way that we think has gone far too far. That is why we are putting forward proposals and investigations to make it more generous. We see that more people need to be called into that part of the health insurance. We do not think it is reasonable for those who are prematurely worn out to need to have all of their old-age pension money prematurely, because then the pension will be very low.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-360	Mr. Old President! As regards the question of whether the government has been involved and influenced so that there have been much more austerity and harsher assessments of both sickness benefit and sickness benefit, I would really like to recommend to Mrs Carvalho and anyone listening to this debate to look at the Mission Review documentary on this. It shows with all due clarity how the government's governance has affected so that it has become tougher assessments. However, I will say that I am very much in favour of the report on sickness benefit that I myself am in and that it is about that it will be a softer assessment, especially for the elderly but also for others. I very much hope that it will lead to concrete results. But we stand by – it is also something that we hear very much from pensioners, who, in any case, we are trying to listen to – that the increased age of guidance will hit some working groups hard. Nor will it have the effect on pensions that it may have been perceived to have. There is much we can debate about pensions. I would now like to touch on one subject, namely the issue of equal pensions. We agree that there should be more equal pensions. On the other hand, we may not fully agree on how it is to be achieved. The Social Democrats want quotas so that they share equally. We think that parents should be allowed to choose this for themselves. Instead of distributing it so that it gets a little bad for both, you should do so that it doesn't get bad for anyone. The aim should be to have as little impact on pensions as possible if someone chooses to go down part-time or take parental leave. What are the government's proposals and concrete measures to achieve this objective?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-365	Mr. Old President! Let me begin by stating that we want to ensure that pensions are raised. That is the primary objective of the Social Democrats in this area. There is a major problem with average life expectancy increasing so much that it automatically means lower pensions if we do nothing. We must address this problem. There are two ways in which pensions can be raised. One is that we can make sure that more people can work a little longer. We Social Democrats think this is reasonable, but we see that there is a need for a valve for those who get worn out prematurely. We Social Democrats will continue to fight hard for this, and we hope that more parties will gain that insight. Sweden is one of the few countries that do not have such a valve within the sickness benefit. We think it is reasonable that such a thing exists for those who get worn out prematurely. The second is that we need to pay more into the pension system. There, too, we have been pushing for years, but I can see that there have been no political conditions for getting this through in this House. I'm sorry about that. However, the Social Democrats continue to fight hard for us to increase contributions to the pension system, so that pensions can be raised in the long term. There too, I hope that more parties will come out on the track. Julia Kronlid then asked a question. Or I don't really know if it was a question, but it was a discussion about equality. I fully share the problem: pensions are not equal. We need to do a lot of work there. However, I probably do not share the solutions that Julia Kronlid was a little bit into. We see that the major problem is that there are very unequal structures, not least in the labour market. If we are to receive equal pensions, we also need to ensure that society is otherwise treated equally.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-370	Mr. Old President! A beautiful spring day in May 1913, the Parliament decided to introduce the first social security scheme in the world, which broadly covered the entire population – general pension insurance. It was an important decision for our welfare society. The retirement age was set at 67 years. And, Mr. Old President, the average life expectancy was 56 years. For those who could not live with their family at this time, only the municipal poor care remained. Men received higher remuneration than women because women lived longer. There were critics who said that the pension was too low and that it was discriminatory against women. The current pension system was introduced at the end of the 1990s by a broad majority of Moderates, Center Partyists, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Social Democrats. The retirement age was set at 65 years. The average life expectancy is currently 85 years for women. Life expectancy increases by three and a half hours each day. It is quite amazing, but of course it is a strain on the pension system, which must change with time. We are, with increasing life expectancy, fortunately healthier far up in the ages. To feel that you are needed and useful is extremely powerful for each individual, no matter what stage of life you are in. An increased retirement age is therefore important for those who want, can and can work longer. Society needs the skills and experience of people who have had a long working life. We Moderates are happy to see a reinforced job tax deduction from the age of 64. Today's pension systems are designed so that those who work today pay into today's pensions. Therefore, a heavy responsibility rests with the state, the government. They have a heavy responsibility to do their job for people to have a job. If the retirement age is to be increased, the working life must be more sustainable, so that people can work longer. The work line must also be strengthened. It must become more profitable to work, and it must become more attractive to hire. Training needs to be made more flexible so that people can start over in the middle of their lives and change careers. Knowledge of what pension actually means must be widespread in society. For example, when Municipal negotiated pension provisions in favour of more money in their wallets, municipal employees should have gained more knowledge about the consequences for their pensions. Mr. Old President! Despite the fact that the differences in pay-out based on gender ended back in 1946, men and women still have unequal pensions because they have made different life choices because of the tradition of time and because of society's expectations. In practice, men and women have not had the same opportunities to have a career outside the home, and many are the women who have and will receive a low pension. Young people need to know to a greater extent that their choices in life affect. Each individual's pension depends entirely on how much you work, how long you work, and what a living wage you have. In addition, occupational pensions are extremely important, and here the social partners can make a contribution through better agreements. It is basically, and in theory, a fair system we have. The Moderates want to see an investigation into how today's pensions can be more equal. You can improve pensions through the state budget through pension supplements, but if you really want to give pensioners more in your wallet, you lower the tax, as we moderates do. With the Moderates' draft budget, the tax on an average pension is reduced by SEK 300 per month, up to a maximum of SEK 550 for higher pensions. That's four times more than the government's tax cut. In other words, the Moderates raise pensions four times more than the government. Our tax cuts also close the tax gap between pensioners and those who work, what someone here referred to as a penalty tax. We conclude it entirely because it is right and because it is fair. The so-called distance from respect is also about justice. Today there is far too little difference in pension between the person who has worked a whole life with low pay and the person who has not worked at all. This is the result of improving basic protection, which is not entirely unproblematic. The Moderates want to remove the exception contained in the guarantee pension, which means that immigrants do not have to qualify for the scheme. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, the Moderates believe that the debate on pensions must be lively and vibrant. The pension system is too important to allow rapid changes based on election promises and party politics to enter the Pensions Group. We must take responsibility for ensuring that the pension system is sustainable over time. The pension system must be long-term. Everyone should be able to rely on the pension to be paid safely after a full working life.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-382	Mr. Old President! The liberal starting point is that no one should have to worry about their economy when you get older. Our pension system is stable and based on long-term agreements. It is with a proud liberal story that we can say that. One of the great fathers of the birth of the current system in 1999 was the Liberal Member of Parliament, Bo Könberg, who created the stability and foundation of today's system. The starting point, Mr. Old President, is that it will pay off to work and pay into the pension system. This starting point is deeply rooted in society and contributes to credibility and stability. And it is the fact that Sweden has one of the world's most stable pension systems. Simply put, today's pensions are financed by those who work today, apart from the premium pension that each saves for itself. The more you pay in and the later you retire, the more you get out. Citizens are protected from political whims and benefit from working and paying more taxes. All of this is supported by a broad range of citizens, which is perhaps the most important thing to really feel secure. Mr. Old President! Many have mentioned the Pensions Group, which is a rather unique invention or event. The task of the Pensions Group is to safeguard the pension agreement and to care for the pension reform and the fundamental principles I have just mentioned. The value of the work of the Pensions Group cannot be overestimated. There we work with common knowledge formation and consensus decisions, which ensure political long-term and stability. This must, of course, be cared for and protected by all the parties involved in the Pensions Group. Unfortunately, however, Mr President-in-Office, many citizens feel that today's pension system is difficult to understand and a little complicated. I can understand that. It is an educational problem that must be taken very seriously by us politicians. We need to talk more about pensions and debate them more in this House so that it becomes clear how the system works and how we in the parties view it with our differences and different entry values. A recurring false assumption, as many have mentioned here in the speaker's chair today, is that the system is a self-insurance policy where what you have paid into your own account can then be picked up when you get old, but really that does not work. To some extent – for the premium pension – this is how it works, but not for the general pension. The system, as I mentioned earlier, is largely financed gradually by the work of new generations. It is important to emphasise this. Mr. Old President! The proportion of older people in the population is increasing in proportion to the proportion of those in employment, and the pension system is being burdened as more and more people need to share the same cake. It is not negative in itself, but it is very positive because it is above all healthy years that we add to life at group level. The knowledge, skills and experience of older people are really needed, and we must therefore ensure, among other things, that they are better taken into account in study life but above all in working life. That is why we in the Liberals want the age limit for how long you have the right and the opportunity to study or remain at work to be raised. In the long term, the retirement age and the right to remain in study or working life should be linked to the development of life expectancy so that we do not have to make new decisions as the development takes place. A worker after 65 should therefore pay lower taxes. You also need to have other carrots in order to develop and continue to develop your workplace, surroundings or skills after you have filled a pensioner. Thus, in order to earn the same pension as previous groups of pensioners, the active working period for the elderly can be extended. This means significant benefits for the individual, for the business community, for society and for all of us. Today's young people must also prepare for a longer and more varied working life than today. A longer working life is an advantage in the workplaces that struggle to retain skills during large generation departures. Increased retirement age adapts the entire pension system to today's average life expectancy. This means that we need to adapt workplaces and improve working conditions for the elderly. The fact that life expectancy is higher does not automatically mean that the body is equipped for long-term work, which is why working life, workplaces and society must achieve a powerful development so that you can, want and can. This also means that it must be easier to change jobs and to develop and use skills better. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, the Liberals' proposal to transfer pension rights from women to men and, on the contrary, in the event of divorce is important. It is needed as a good reform of freedom of choice. There is also a need for clear information and more choice in terms of how to pay attention and what it should look like when handing over, for example, after parental leave during your marriage or life together. Pension rights should not be transferred between the sexes by coercion or automatic means, but because one wants and can.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-392	Mr. Old President! Sweden has a stable pension system. It is robust with secured funding. It should cope with crises, including long-term crises, political shifts and short-term political priorities. The Treasury should not be put at risk by political whims. We have a broad political base behind the system and a broad political consensus is needed to make the necessary adjustments. That's good. The Green Party has been represented in the Pensions Group for many years. That's good, too. We want to safeguard this stability and long-term sustainability of pension policy. The Green Party is a party that wants and can take responsibility. But there are, of course, some problems and challenges to address with regard to pensions. The Pension Group's latest agreement from 2017 on long-term increased and equal pensions highlights some of these challenges. It is important that we focus on solving them. But we also have continued challenges ahead of us. Many people feel that their pension is too low. The day one takes the step from wage labour into retirement too often disappears up to half his income. In accordance with this agreement, we need to increase pensions, especially for those with the lowest pensions. We also need more equal pensions. But we also need a better financial distribution. Today we have a worse financial distribution in the group of older pensioners than in the rest of the population. Such things create rifts in the well-being. We have now begun to see a growing group of homeless pensioners, not least in my own constituency of Stockholm City. The pension system must also be made more flexible, so that people with heavy occupations or professions with mental pressure do not suffer financially because they need to finish their wage work prematurely. The funds, i.e. the capital, which we save ourselves or jointly for future pension payments must work for a sustainable future, not only for the individual pensioner but also for the planet. Our pension savings – private savings, occupational pensions and premium pensions – must become more sustainable. It is not least about meeting the climate challenge and the commitment that we have taken on with the Paris Agreement. It must be easier to save sustainably, and we also need clear rules for common savings. Mr. Old President! The Green Party voted to raise the pensions of those with the lowest income. We've done that. We have increased the guarantee pension and the ceiling in the housing supplement. It was a welcome addition for many relatively poor pensioners. But we can't say it was enough. That journey will have to continue. Basic protection needs to continue to be strengthened. And then we cannot blame those who have paid in low-wage jobs for having a low pension. The distance of respect should not be an obstacle to strengthening the financial security and quality of life of a far too large group of pensioners with very low incomes. Even those who have worked and worn out a whole life in the home unpaid have the right to a pension that can actually be lived on. All of these people – it may be academics, but it is rather artists, cultural workers, self-employed people and others – who have worked full hours but for part-time wages or scholarships or even voluntary ones should be able to put together the economy even after retirement. But of course we need to continue to strengthen the economy also for those who are on incomes just above, the many who have been working in low-wage jobs for many years. In September, the first payment of the pension supplement for that group will be made. Everyone who has an income of 11,000 – 14,000 and has worked at least 40 years receives SEK 600 more each month. It is a distributional reform that is very good. It is a short-term solution. In the longer term, we have said that we will find a way to bring the distributional effect into the ordinary pension system. Of course, we will keep that agreement. We are dealing with the points in the last pension agreement. We've raised the retirement age. Longer working life is a way to raise your pension. We have received the report from the Senior Labour Delegation, which has produced many worth reading reports on the working life of older people, but also on ageing and, not least, ageism. It's important reading. Recently, we were also able to announce that we are receiving a new premium pension scheme. It'll be safer and more transparent. This means greater freedom of choice in practice, with slightly fewer funds. We know that too many options make it difficult to make rational choices. At the same time, of course, we must also address the needs of the market and the willingness to enter the fund square. The next step to raise pensions will be to review contributions. If, in principle, the pension supplement has an immediate effect on raising pensions and increasing pension ages, the effect is somewhat slower, and, of course, only for those who are still working, increased payments are probably something that takes quite a long time to produce an effect if we do not at the same time adjust elsewhere in the pension system. Mr. Old President! The Green Party has a motion for a general period of exercise included in the report. This is precisely what I said about prioritising those with the lowest pensions in the continued work on increased pensions. It's about equality. It is a question of women taking greater responsibility for unpaid work at home. Women receive less pay than men through working life, and they become much more poor as pensioners. Of those who received guarantee pension last year, 77 per cent were women, and 73 per cent of those who received housing allowance. Three out of four of those with the lowest pension are therefore women. The root cause lies in an unequal working life and an unequal labour market. But the solutions cannot stay there. We must find solutions also in the pension system, and this work will continue to be a very priority for the Green Party. I support the proposal in the report.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-409	Mr. Old President! I thank Mats Berglund for his speech. I could not help but raise my eyebrows when Mrs Berglund said that this reform of the premium pension would increase freedom of choice. That's not true. It's just the opposite. This reform will reduce freedom of choice and will leave extremely fewer funds than now to choose from. In addition, large international index funds will be rewarded, and this will hit Swedish small corporate funds hard. Why is it so important for the Pensions Group to proceed with this reform in this way? It will go through an authority, and it will be much more difficult to get an overview of all the different choices you have today. It will also hit Swedish small businesses hard when we are in the midst of a pandemic. I would like to know how the government and the Pensions Group are discussing these consequences when there is much less choice and less choice than today. Many have criticised this. There have been criticisms from various quarters that this could actually lead to a lower premium pension. So why? What's the real reason? With regard to the problems that have been encountered with fraudulent behaviour, unethical marketing and various clutterers, we will of course hit them hard. However, this reform also strikes hard at those who are not. I find that problematic.
i-XCpN38rmNr63muSJMQWS7N	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question and for the discussion. I think it is important that we get to grips with the premium pension system; we agree on that. It is, as Julia Kronlid said, also triggered by the scandals – one must call them – with rogue fund companies. That is where we started, and it was step one in redeploying the fund system or the premium pension system. Now we have also landed in stage two – a sustainable and long-term solution with slightly fewer, or rather fewer, funds. That's about 200. It is not exactly how many there should be, but there will be enough to safeguard freedom of choice, at least if you talk about the freedom of choice of those who save pensions. Julia Kronlid may have suffered a great deal of lobbying from the industry, which of course wants more funds. I have also experienced this, and I believe that everyone in the Pensions Group has noticed this. Research shows that too many options in practice reduce choice. But we have also said quite clearly that there should be enough funds to safeguard freedom of choice. There should be a wide range of funds to choose from. There should not be too many funds that are too similar. A too large square is also very expensive to handle. There will be a high superstructure in the costs. I think that we have landed at a good and reasonable level, after long discussions of course.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-417	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Mr Berglund. We fully agree on step one that was included with the necessary requirements to avoid fraudulent behaviour, unethical marketing and all these things. We also agree to be able to simplify in different ways so that it is easy to understand how to choose. But this is not a small reform. This is a big reform! As I mentioned in my speech, 20% of premium pension capital was previously invested in Swedish shares. Now it's going to be about 1%. It's a huge change. I wish that the Pensions Group and the Government could at least take this with them in their continued management, because we must also see to it how it hits Swedish entrepreneurs. But, of course, the most important thing is what effect it will have on pensions. I am concerned about the very limited freedom of choice that this will mean anyway. It is the government that in this investigation should sit and choose for our pensioners which funds they should be able to choose from and not. When this happens to such an extent, I am concerned that it will lead to an excessive reduction in freedom of choice and thus also to a reduction in pensions. I would like answers as to how it has come about that the big international funds should be rewarded instead of Swedish small company funds. Why has this development become so?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-422	Mr. Old President and Julia Kronlid! It is certainly a major reform with a new government solution and a completely new square that has different conditions from what we have had in the past. It is also an authority that may need to be a little more active. I really want to say that it is not the way Julia Kronlid might happen to say – that it is the government that should decide which funds should exist in the fund square. This is not the case; it is the authority that is to make procurements. It is clear in the directives that freedom of choice should be safeguarded and that there should be a wide range of funds of different types. It is important in the reform and important for freedom of choice that freedom of choice becomes real and that you can opt out, for example, funds that have holdings in sectors that you do not want or funds that are not edifying for a sustainable planet. It can also be other things you want to choose or opt out of. You might want to opt out of games or some other industries that you don't like. You might also want to invest nationally. We will need a solution for this type of freedom of choice. It will be a task for the authority to resolve it in the best way, but it is important that we follow the election architecture that comes in this. And it's not just about the architecture, it's about the interface and questions about the response on the site – how to choose. It will be important, and I think it is extremely important to ensure the possibility of choosing sustainability funds, for example.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-426	Mr. Old President! Swedish representatives are happy to tell us what an equal country Sweden is and raise parental insurance as a shining example of this. Sweden has very generous parental insurance. We have twice the cost of parental insurance as the OECD average. But the question is whether parental insurance is designed to achieve genuine equality today. Swedish women have one of the highest employment rates in Europe during early childhood years. It is sometimes said that it is a good measure of equality. Are sickness rates a better measure of gender equality, or are pension levels a better measure? Or do these two measures show a backside of parental insurance that no one has dared to look at? In a report, the Social Insurance Agency shows that first-time parents who live in situations that can be described as equal or non-traditional have higher sickness absences than those who have a traditional division of labour with the man as the main provider. Women with a partner who takes at least half the responsibility at home and the greatest responsibility in working life are at least at risk of sick leave. Men with primary responsibility for home work have a higher risk of getting sick leave if the partner earns as much or more compared to the average risk for men. In parents who are equal in working life, the risk of sick leave among men increases. A traditional division of labour where the man has the greatest responsibility in working life and the woman has the main responsibility for domestic work means a reduced risk of sick leave – among men. The lowest risk of sick leave has men whose partners take the main responsibility both at home and in working life. Mr. Old President! Income development after childbirth is also highlighted to show that there are several background factors that influence how one chooses to share parental benefit. High level of education, being born in Sweden, especially if the man was born in Sweden, and living in a metropolitan region are all factors that increase the likelihood of a more equal collection of parental benefit. Men who lack income or have a low income are more likely to refrain from using parental benefit when they have children. Can we increase equality through political decisions that parents should share equal parental insurance, or will it only give already vulnerable children fewer days at home with their parents? Mr. Old President! The Coronapendemy is on the third wave in our country, and many families mourn their loved ones who are no longer among us. The Coronapendemy has also hit the economy hard. Many have lost their jobs, and many entrepreneurs are currently selling their homes and houses to pay wages and taxes. In this situation, as a government in Sweden, highlighting the family week in order to prioritise its implementation is a really bad priority, as the money is needed better to restart Sweden. The Moderates are standing up for the work line, because more hours will be needed to restart Sweden. We need reforms that give people greater incentives to work, that make it profitable for people to work and that make it easier to hire. Therefore, the Moderates consider that the current legal framework for parental insurance, which delays the entry of women born abroad, needs to be amended. For parents who have not entered the labour market, it is crucial that the driving forces for work are clear and that it is easy to get children into preschool. In order to strengthen the work line for those who have never received their first job – not least foreign-born women – qualification through work should be required in order to receive full parental benefit. For insured persons without SGI, sickness benefit-based income, parental benefit should be limited to 12 months. Relevant legislative changes are needed to limit parental benefit for insured persons who do not have earned income to 365 days. It is companies that create jobs, and it is therefore important that entrepreneurs also have a sustainable family life. Managing a business, especially for those who are alone in the company, can mean that a particular job must be done even if the entrepreneur is free to care for his child. This does not go according to current regulations. Mr. Old President! Other models are needed, which strengthen flexibility and security, to adapt parental insurance to the circumstances of entrepreneurs. This contributes positively to women's entrepreneurship and a more equal take-up of parental insurance. With this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to support the Moderates' position and call for reservation 8 under paragraph 4, which we have with the Center Party, on parental insurance and entrepreneurs.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-443	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2, which deals with parental insurance. We are, of course, behind all our reservations. Sweden, compared to many countries, has a very generous parental insurance policy, and we will leave it that way. However, in this House there are a few different wills in terms of how it should take shape. On the whole, I think we're in agreement. Some, however, want to tighten up and tighten up, and we want to go the other way. Some push for a 50 – 50 distribution between parents, while we look at it from a child and family perspective. However, the economic aspect is of course particularly important. In order to strengthen the economy of the country's families with children, we want to increase the level of compensation, i.e. the percentage of the salary that is paid. We also want to raise the maximum ceiling, that is, what the parent has the opportunity to receive compensation for. I'm talking about parental insurance. This, in turn, would automatically contribute to the fact that those who have a slightly better income tend to be home a little more, as the loss is not quite as great. I believe that here one should primarily look at the family's overall finances and not to each one. I also think that most families think that way and that they want to try to get the best total monthly income during the time they have babies at home. The Swedish democrats' family policy is largely based on voluntary choice and flexibility. We have no intention of malfunctioning and pokeing. We know that family constellations look different and that everyone has different conditions and different playing fields. That should always be taken into account. Mr. Old President! In the debate, we often hear from the government parties – mainly from the Social Democrats – that we would pursue anti-women's family policy. It is, in fact, a rather tiring debate. If you do not think like the Social Democrats, you are in any sense hostile. We see this in a wide range of policy areas. There seems to be a pandemic within the Social Democrats on this, because we now see that more parties seem to get a throw of that sleigh. What is it, then, that the Social Democrats are getting involved in our family policy? Is it that we want to increase the housing allowance for families, or is it that we want to abolish the requirement for housing space in order to get access allowance? Is it perhaps that we want to increase the time frame to protect the mother's SGI? No, Mr. Old President, it's that we think the families with children in the country are doing well without reserved months in parental insurance. We believe that the families themselves can govern this. I guess this must be really awful, Mr. Old President. Imagine how many years the Social Democrats have pursued anti-women's family policy in this House – in fact, for all the years until it was decided in the Swedish Parliament on the first reserved month. In fact, it is more years than we have been pushing for the reserved months to be removed. Mr. Old President! I have to say it myself: I think that we in the Swedish Democrats have a really good family policy. We have a series of good proposals that benefit families and children. What I am now mentioning are things that are not visible in this report, as these proposals have been budgeted and seen as priorities. We suggest, among other things, an increased number of days at birth; a little carelessly we call these days father days. This would strengthen the family and enable it to tie ties during the early postpartum period. Here we propose primarily five extra days. In the long run, however, we want to extend it to ten days, so that both parents can be home with the baby in the first month to get routines started and connect. Reports also show that parents tend to share more equally on parenting days the earlier they use them. Here we have a proposal based on opportunity and voluntary rather than coercion and limitations. In addition, we want to double the number of double days, from 30 to 60 days, to further increase flexibility for our families. We have chosen not to suggest that all days should be double days, as in practice it would mean that the child has fewer days at home with his or her family. As I mentioned a little bit earlier, we also want to strengthen the housing allowance for low-income families with children. There we want to see an increase in compensation but also an increase in the income ceiling. For us, this is not least part of reducing child poverty. More if you can read in our exercise. Mr. Old President! In our committee motion we have over 30 requests for what we want with Swedish family policy. We also want to see measures in the area of parental insurance, where we want to remove, among other things, regulatory problems, as I mentioned earlier. This applies not least to the quota months, but also to the four-year rule. Statistics show that the quota days have had relatively little impact on an equal set-aside. In general, it is the mother who takes out parental days for the first year, and only when the child is three or four years old does he have a reasonably even withdrawal. The four-year rule that exists today means that days beyond 96 days lapse when the child is four years of age. We think that's bad, and we want that rule out. With this rule, 70 percent of children have days that burn inside, and the majority of the days that fall due with the four-year limit are days reserved for the father. This makes it even more strange. We have parental insurance that first entitles the parents to 480 days that can be used until the child reaches the age of 12. Then you choose to remove days that exceed 96 after the child is 4 years of age. Then proposals are made for a new reform in which parents should be able to be at home with children on holiday until they are 16 years old. Well, that's weird and maybe a little unnecessarily complicated, Mr. Old President. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention a very important review that concerns many separated parents in Sweden today. We urgently need a review of the maintenance and maintenance support. As the system is built today, it is conflict-driven. We need a modern and sustainable system. Today it almost pays not to get along, and that is not how we can do it. In the case of maintenance aid, a six-month rule has also been introduced, which is in fact an economic uncertainty and twitchiness for the recipient of the aid. It often affects women when the difficulties of cooperation are clearer. In these relationships there are also often violence and threats. In such cases, the six-month rule shall not apply; the examination shall be carried out less frequently. This is a rule that the government has pushed forward that is disadvantageing mainly women and that we cannot support, but we really need to look at this urgently.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-463	Mr. Old President! The Center Party and I naturally support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 3. Mr. Old President! If I were allowed to do as I wish, I would equip the children with a stop light signal where they can print red, green or yellow– red when they are not allowed to decide and are not listened to or green when they have access to both their parents but also yellow when they do not want to be in charge. There are times when adults place high demands on children to be in charge, when the children only expect adults to actually assume their responsibilities and that the parents do what is best for them as a child. Family economic policies often affect children. Children's living conditions change and are strongly influenced by the choices their parents make. And the decisions we make in this House affect parents' choices, so it is important that we focus on children's perspectives. For them and for us, we need a more equal society. During the first part of a person's life, it is the family that is the whole society. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, it is of great importance that economic family policy helps to give children the right to both parents. Parental insurance should be adapted to a modern society and working life and to different family constellations and pay more clearly for a more equal take-up of parental benefit days. In order to achieve gender equality, the reintroduction of the gender equality bonus, introduced by the Alliance Government, should be reviewed, with financial incentives, to ensure that more people share parental leave more equally. Mr. Old President! In the case of housing allowance, children living with divorced parents must have a good place to live, regardless of which of the parents they live. We also need to review this rule. Housing allowance in the event of alternate housing is available if the child lives at least 12 days per month. That idea is good because, as I have pointed out, a child needs to meet both of his parents. But now life is not so black or white; there are many shades in between. It may be that for various reasons a month or two children live less than twelve days with one parent, who then loses the housing allowance. Of course, this leads to financial uncertainty for the parent, but even the children can be drawn into this. At worst, it can contribute to an increased conflict area in families who have chosen not to live together. Mr. Old President! I would also like to mention parental insurance and entrepreneurship, which have also been mentioned by previous speakers. It is no secret that we in the Center Party want to see more companies and preferably more women running companies. As far as parental insurance and entrepreneurship are concerned, we need to facilitate and review that regime. Today's structure contributes to fewer women than men running companies, while at the same time we see that men who run their own companies are the group that takes the least parental leave. Parental insurance, which applies to employees, should as far as possible also apply to entrepreneurs, regardless of their form of business. However, we must also understand that small businesses may have to deal with certain administrative tasks in order to manage their business during parental leave. We in the Center Party believe that one should be able to do so without losing one's parental allowance. Mr. Old President! Although we do not like it, we must realise that all the decisions we take in this House do not always have the desired effect and that it sometimes takes a little longer than we really have patience with. But then we'll have to make a little more effort. Family economic policy needs to be clearly geared towards a more equal society with children's best interests in mind, so that they can print green.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-474	Mr. Old President! In the past, politics solved social problems. Today, unfortunately, politics is creating problems instead. Children become poor because their parents are made poor by the policy being pursued now. Last year, the January parties chose to reduce the tax by 30 billion instead of removing the additional tax paid by everyone on sick leave. Children of sick leave are made poor so that someone who earns about 60 000 will receive further relief. It is not a responsible policy. The fact that no party other than the Left Party in this House wanted to remove the penalty tax for the sick is difficult for me to understand. Bris has recently produced a report showing that children have had a particularly difficult time over the past year. In Sweden, the economic elite and child poverty are growing side by side. The differences are increasing fastest here in Sweden's welfare country. Instead of financially pressured families with children, it is large companies that award bonuses that receive taxpayers' corona support. Mr. Old President! Some children find it sad that the trip to the mountains has been cancelled but look forward to next year's adventure. When the pandemic is over, everything will be as usual. In the same city live children who go on luxurious mountain holidays and children who do not go further than the rent house playground. It is therefore regrettable that all other parties opposed the Left Party's proposal for extra housing allowance for families with children who are in a difficult financial situation. Concern over family finances is contagious with children. Those who are the most deprived may not even be able to live there. Imagine how it would feel to have to move around and not be able to give your child security. Imagine what it would feel like not even to be able to support the children. Bring in the pain these parents feel! I grew up in Skärholmen, where I still live, at a time when Stockholm was not so divided. The school was the hub for all of us kids who lived there. It had relatively small classes, good with resources and students with different backgrounds. It was also invested in leisure activities. So me and my sister, daughters of a cleaning lady and a metallator, could participate in everything from Our Theatre to Handball. Today, instead, we see that the children of Skärholmen do not find the security of getting to know each other. They either go to the nearest school, or they travel through half the city to another school. After all, parents want the best interests of children and try to secure the future far from the suburbs because they do not trust that the quality of the nearest school is the same as that of the schools in the inner city. We also see that few children have recreational activities. It's especially about girls. It is not cheap to have a leisure activity, and if you struggle to get the money for food, leisure activity goes away. There are children who make up holiday memories because they have not left the district during the summer. Even children's health and access to care are characterized by where they live and the economy of a family. Mr. Old President! What should really cause a severe storm, we are silent to death. This isn't worthy. Poverty can befall us all. If the coronapendemia hasn't made us realize that, I don't know what could do that. Anyone who falls ill or loses his job today cannot trust that a safety net exists. After the Alliance's reorganisation of social security systems in 2009, record numbers of children grow up in a family without money. It's normal people like you and me. It is former teachers, carpenters and utility workers, people who have injured themselves in the job or who have had the bad luck of having a chronic disease, which now stands destitute. It hits them tremendously hard. It hits their families indescribably hard. It's about not being able to give your child a nice birthday with gifts and cake, not being able to afford a spring jacket, a Easter break activity or proper shoes. It's about not being able to afford to go away during the summer or even being able to give your child the opportunity to go to a camp. Try to put yourself in that feeling! I'm sorry about the language, but it feels like shit. The government and the January parties removed the military tax from the budget costs just over 6 billion each year. Just imagine what that money could have done to give children and families better conditions. Instead, Volvo CEO receives 2 1⁄2 million extra annually. Mr. Old President! Reality looks like it does. There's gonna be bigger differences. More people live with a tight economy. The proportion of families with children who are financially poor has doubled since the '00s. Away from family policy, it would be about a quarter of Swedish families with children – a quarter! Sweden has during the same time made sure to top the league in the number of millionaires. And more comes that way. A family gets the whole house cleaned spring, and the party is paid for by us taxpayers. That is what Sweden looks like today. This is how political power is used. But what kind of nonsense is that? Yes, I'll tell you. It is the economic policy of the government and the remaining January parties. That is what we need to change. Since the late 1990s, the redistributive effect of all social security schemes to families with children has almost halved. Single women with children are the toughest. Single mothers are a social problem again in 2020, because politics has made them poor. It's because of nothing but just that. We must be clear about the responsibility we, the political parties, have for this. Instead, the Left Party is investing in the families. Working conditions must be improved and wages increased. Everyone should be entitled to full-time, and parental insurance should provide security and compensation once you have had a child. We need to increase the levels of compensation in our social security systems. You shouldn't have to get poor because you lose your job or get sick. All the sick shall receive the compensation to which they are entitled. More jobs and good childcare allow parents to go out to work while the children are doing well at preschool. In recent years we have proposed investments in, among other things, sickness benefits and increased pensions. Our proposals would also mean that more people are entitled to the housing allowance than they are today. It would make a difference to those with the lowest income. Mr. Old President! For me, it is incomprehensible that the welfare of families does not precede the large contributions that will now go to the country's high-income recipients. It's pitiful. In this report, we raise in particular the issue of facilitating parental leave for sole entrepreneurs. It is important that there is a safe foundation and a functioning social safety net for entrepreneurs too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. For sole entrepreneurs it is more difficult than it is in other companies to hire a substitute. The substitute must be put into work, and this requires that work be done overlappingly. It is often not possible for sole entrepreneurs, for example for economic reasons or because of tricky working hours. In addition, there must be a fairly large transfer of knowledge. Society therefore needs to make it easier for sole entrepreneurs to take parental leave, for example by funding parts of the training period of the substitute. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-492	Mr. Old President! That was a long and comprehensive speech we heard from the Left Party representative in this area today. I am a little curious about the seriosity of the speech. In the report, the Left Party has a proposal in the area of family policy. But now you stand here and spread out that you think a lot of things. What did you do during the whole autumn's general period of exercise when you can actually put sharp demands to Parliament about what you want with the Swedish family policy? My question to the honourable Member is therefore: what does the Left Party really want with the Swedish family policy?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-495	Mr. Old President! During general exercise time, we make various suggestions. We have made proposals in the past, and they are still valid and are part of our policy. So what I am presenting here is the policy of the Left Party. It is also reflected in the budgetary motions we have presented.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-496	Mr. Old President! I agree with some of the points made by the honourable Member. We are seeing an increase in child poverty and an increased economic crisis in the country's families. So last autumn we were exercising for family support, linked to the coronapndemine. In our budget, we also strengthen the housing allowance. We raise the income by 25 000 and the rent ceiling for the right to housing allowance by 500 SEK. We have also made proposals for a special allowance for single parents, which we see as being particularly vulnerable. The largest group here are women living in economically difficult conditions. These are the real proposals that the Swedish Democrats have put forward in their political work and not just stand and talk about in this House. I would have liked to have seen a little more proposals from the Left Party in the report, except for the one from Mr Varas himself to facilitate parental leave for entrepreneurs. As a former self-employed person, I can subscribe to this, because I know exactly what it was like during childhood years. However, as I said, I would have liked to see a little more useful in the report on what the Left Party really wants with family policy.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-500	Mr. Old President! What SD is trying to do is reduce our policy. We have put forward budget motions to raise revenue from the richest in the country in order to pursue a redistribution policy, which the Swedish Democrats do not have in their budgets. You can submit great exercises and try to cover all areas. But if you are not willing to redistribute, nothing will happen, because it must be financed by the public purse. We have put forward our policy. The work in the Riksdag works so that you do not always exercise about everything in all areas. But our previous movements are still valid, and they can be seen in our budget movements.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-503	Mr. Old President! According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the family is the natural and fundamental unity of society. The importance of the family has always been emphasised by us Christian Democrats ever since the party was formed in 1964, and the importance of working families is hardly less today. In our party movement of over 50 pages with 36 demands, we clearly describe what changes we see as necessary in the area of family policy. Of course, I support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for the approval of reservation number 6 on parental allowance, which we have together with the Swedish Democrats. Mr. Old President! saias Tegnér gave 1820 a quote from a speech by Esaias Tegnér. I thought about that when I read in the Prime Minister's government statement about how he thinks about the violence and the crime that creates insecurity in our Sweden. He lists a number of measures and initiatives that the government wants to make in order, as he said, to take the lead in this important work. The Prime Minister mentions that the school, social services, local business and our peoples' movements have important roles to play, but I can't let go that he doesn't mention the family. He doesn't say a single word about the family. What's the point of talking about ten thousand more police employees if you don't have the family perspective and parental responsibility? If we don't get the parents with us, ten thousand more police officers won't be enough. The question that needs to be asked is: Is there anything more important in crime prevention than the family? Mr. Old President! Sweden really needs a family policy that facilitates family formation, which increases parents' ability to spend time with their children, which strengthens families' finances and creates the conditions to combine family life with work and career. We can never round the family policy if we want to tackle some of the social problems we are struggling with today. It is my firm conviction that safe and well-functioning families are crucial not only for preventive work but for society as a whole to function and grow strong. Mr. Old President! Every family is unique. We see this in today's family formations. The nuclear family remains but is complemented by cohabiting couples, single, reconstituted families, same-sex couples and so on. Despite differences, all families should receive community support to be able to function as well as possible and make everyday life go together. It is precisely this diversity that makes it so obvious that family policy does not fit in with system and regulatory perspectives. Every family has its unique life puzzle to lay, and we Christian Democrats are clear that it is the parents, not us politicians on Helgeandsholmen, who know best how their family needs to set up their family life. That is why we are in favour of completely free parental insurance and reject any form of quota. In the Christian Democrats' party motion, there are a number of measures aimed at supporting families to find their solutions and to choose the form of childcare that suits them and their children best. Mr. Old President! It is worth noting that there is a lack of popular support to limit the types of childcare that families should be able to choose and for politicians to decide to a greater extent who should be on parental leave and for how long. It is according to studies just the opposite. A 2018 Sifo survey gave massive support to the view that parents should be allowed to decide for themselves. When asked whether it is for the parents or the Riksdag to decide how to take out parental insurance, 76 per cent, more than three out of four, answered the parents. Among LO members, the proportion was even higher, 80 percent, or four out of five. We Christian Democrats want generous but at the same time flexible parental insurance and therefore propose a three-year free withdrawal in parental insurance. Today's rules allow for a relatively flexible use of parental insurance only during the child's first year of life. Parental insurance is individualised. Parents are entitled to half of the days each. It is a good emphasis on the importance of both parents for the child, and it allows both parents to have close contact with their child. We Christian Democrats are very much in favour of this. But we also know that parenthood is a joint commitment. That is also why we believe that parents should be allowed to decide for themselves whether days should be transferred and used in a different way and, if so, how many. Simply put, we want to see a system that is less square. The more square a system becomes, the less suitable it is for the different unique families that are out there in our country. That is also why we should reject and oppose quotas in parental insurance and remove the quotas that exist today.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-519	Mr. Old President! Of course, I support all the Liberal proposals and reservations, but for the benefit of time I only ask for reservation 19 in paragraph 9. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be an equal, child-friendly and parental-friendly country. A central part of this is that there is a well-developed and publicly funded preschool that allows parents to combine work and parenthood during childhood. Another cornerstone is the right to paid parental leave, i.e. parental insurance, together with legislation on parental leave. Family law today needs to be broadened, as families can look so incredibly different. Economically vulnerable families must be protected a little more. Families can, as I said, look in many different ways, and all parents should have the opportunity to combine work and parenthood regardless of their situation. We want a modern, free choice-oriented family policy that increases equality and encourages work. Equal parenting is good for children, family and society. That is why the Liberals have proposed a fundamentally new parental insurance policy, which is well described in our party and committee movements. Mr President, I would like to A modern and good family policy enables parents to combine work with parenting so that children have access to their parents. In order for us to have equal parenthood, a more equal take-out of parental insurance is important and crucial. After the children come, women begin to lose in wage development while the sickness rates go up, as statistics clearly show. This was well described by a previous speaker in the debate, Ann-Sofie Alm of the Moderates. This has enormous consequences for women's lives. This ultimately means that they earn an average of 3.6 million less than men. Since the main responsibility for children falls on women, women work part-time to a much greater extent. This means that half of all women born in the 50's will be poor pensioners with an estimated pension below $5,000 a month. This is not good. It's really a disaster. Mr President, I would like to On 1 January 2019 the care allowance was replaced by the nursing allowance. The care allowance aims to provide support to parents who care for a child with some form of disability. The Liberals flagged early on because the proposal lacked the flexibility necessary to provide ex post compensation, when the need arose, and not according to expected needs. In addition, together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, we proposed that special provisions on the old disability allowance for the blind and severely hearing impaired should remain, because the proposed reform was in danger of contributing to the deterioration of these people and their relatives. Despite the criticism, the government pointed out that the care allowance's purpose was not to cause austerity or changes in previous benefits but to increase transparency and create better conditions for the individual's needs. We all agree on those words. The Liberals have previously pointed out, Mr President, that the care allowance and the new system made it more difficult to obtain aid. In addition, the new system has led to longer processing times and more complicated administration. Many have been left out. The social security inspection revealed in its review as late as last year that the care allowance has led to higher thresholds. It's harder to get it, and, as I said, it's left people out of it. It is more difficult to reach the levels of compensation previously achieved. For children with disabilities, whom the Liberals previously feared would not be offered sufficient support, life is now even more strained. The review states that Försäkringskassan's work with compensation for parents with children with severe hearing loss does not follow practice. In the choice between fair conditions for those in greatest need of social support and a comfortable bureaucracy, we in this House must always choose the former. But the reality out there has been the latter. Mr President, I would like to Liberals believe that the care allowance must allow for support in situations that the legislator could not foresee in order to ensure that people do not stand without compensation to which they are entitled. The government's aim was not, as they themselves say, that the nursing allowance would give rise to changes or austeritys for those who had previously received compensation. But it has. Everything shows that the nursing allowance has caused families to stand without the support they had previously received and to which they continue to be entitled. The Government has previously taken measures to enable Försäkringskassan to extend the care allowance until 1 July 2022. In addition, the Government, in consultation with the Liberals, has decided to increase the grant to the Authority in order to shorten the processing times. But it hasn't helped. Families who have received financial compensation in the past do not receive the support to which they are entitled, and other families receive a much lower level of support than what they had previously received and to which they are entitled, under the new legal framework. I request the approval of reservation 19.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-530	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision. Signe, Majbritt, Lisbeth, Hannah and Saga — women in direct descent. Signe was born before there was the right to vote for women in Sweden. Signe has had my daughter Saga on her lap. Why do I tell you about this in a debate on family policy? Because I want to illustrate how the conditions for families in Sweden have changed in a relatively short time. When Signe had her first child, that is, my grandmother, it was not a big question who was responsible for the family. There was no childcare, no child benefit and no parental insurance. Those who worked depended on their family to care for the children. When my mother Lisbeth was born, in 1955, women were more involved in the labour market as a consequence of World War II. Parental insurance didn't exist. However, there was a total maternity insurance of SEK 1,080. Child care during work was still essentially a headache for the family, although the first state grant for childcare was already distributed in 1944 under Minister of Social Affairs Gustav Möller, a social democrat who I noticed that the Moderates are now happy to pay tribute to their Instagram account. It's kind of funny. In 1974, three years before I was born, parental insurance was introduced. For the first time, both parents were given the opportunity to receive financial compensation for being at home with their children. Men took out on average 0.5 per cent of parental insurance that first year. My mother worked as a business assistant during most of my childhood, from the beginning part-time and then full-time. When she was working, I was at the daymaid's. It was the most common form of childcare where I lived and grew up. In 1998, men's take-out of parental benefit was 10 per cent and women's take-out 90 per cent. Two years later, I had my first daughter. We were the only ones in parental education who planned to share parental insurance equally. Most people did not find it so strange that my partner wanted to take parental leave with his child. All the more skeptical they were to me – that as a mother I didn't want the whole parental insurance for myself. What kind of a mother is a man? I explained that it was not primarily about me but about our child's ability to have an important relationship with both his parents. It seemed a little hard to understand. For those who are at home most during the first year of their child's life, it usually also means that they have the main responsibility for the family for the rest of their lives. It's well documented. It will of course have results in terms of both wage development, career opportunities and pension. It does so for all women, including those who do not have children, because the norm – the expectation from society – still makes it look like this. In 2017, my youngest daughter was born. One year later, at the end of 2018, men collected 29 per cent of parental allowance and women collected 71 per cent. Differences are still large, but progress is being made on several fronts. In the parental education we attended at the time, they told us how it turns the economy on for those who take out most of the parental insurance. I can say that there were quite a few who sat with their chin in their laps in that training. Many people could not imagine that there would be such a big difference between what you retire. But we who sit in this Chamber and make decisions know this. Yet it is very difficult to get support to reform parental insurance in the long term so that these standards can be changed. There are some people who throw themselves out of their way, just making other choices! If it were that simple, much in the world would look different. But we are governed by both laws and standards. Fortunately, both can be influenced if you want to. Mr President, I would like to What is not so much talked about is what the unequal responsibility means for those who are to a lesser extent parental leave, vacillate and take responsibility for the family's social ties. It's that men become more lonely. In 2018, the Comradeposten conducted a rewritten survey about anyone who is a child will talk to if they are sad. Out of 1,700 children who responded, most stated that they preferred to talk to their mother or a friend. Only after, no one at all, did Dad come. A study from the Department of Ociology at Stockholm University shows, among other things, that the risk of divorce increases in relationships where men do not take parental leave. When the relationship ends, a lot of men will be alone. Almost every fifth man in Sweden lacks a friend. It is not surprising, for whoever takes responsibility for the family also produces the social kit. Loneliness and lack of relationships documentedly lead to poor health, increased risk of depression and, in the worst case, premature death. Will a more equal take-out of parental insurance solve all these problems? Of course not; it's not magic we're talking about. Of course, more is needed. But it matters. How we are expected to behave, standards, affects our life choices. Mr President, I would like to In Signe's day, there was no child benefit. The general child benefit was introduced only in 1947. At that time it was SEK 260 per child and year, and today the general child benefit amounts to SEK 1,250 per month. My oldest daughter has given me my first grandchild. She wanted more than anything to share parental insurance with Xzerxez's dad, but unfortunately that couldn't be. If you're young when you have children, your economic muscles are thin. But if you have been taught to be careful with your resources and if there are security systems, you can do so. The last term of office increased the maintenance allowance and so did the income limit of the housing allowance, the basic level of parental allowance and the child benefit, which had not been increased before then for a full twelve years. These are reforms that help Saga to cope with parental leave and parenthood on its own until her son's father can be involved in his life. Margins are small, but she can do it herself and can therefore also choose who should be in her family. It's a luxury her great-grandmother Signe didn't have. Now my grandchild has just started preschooling, and his mother starts a new job this week while studying, because she has planned to become a police officer in the future. In most households today, there are two full - time workers. The reforms have increased labour force participation so that women in Sweden are at the top. But it is also difficult sometimes when you are two full - time parents. Different professional roles offer different opportunities to be flexible, to be able to work in half a day to bring their children to try out glasses, let's say. It is not in all professions that one can do so, especially in the LO collective. We Social Democrats want to make life as a parent easier through a few extra days per parent that you can use to be a part of your children's lives. We've called the reform parental week. It is simply a way of continuing to build on and develop the economic family policy that served Sweden well. As you know, some things have happened since Signe was born, and we believe that family policy needs to follow with its time. Family economic policy, along with other reforms, has given people the freedom to choose how they want to live their lives. That is the effect of social democratic family policy over 100 years.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-547	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of family economic policy is to ensure, through joint efforts, that children grow up in a safe environment and receive the support they need and that their parents or guardians have the financial conditions necessary for it to become a reality. It also aims to smooth out economic gaps and strengthen gender equality. Family economic policy is central to a welfare country like Sweden and has its roots far back in history. In this report, the Green Party puts forward proposals to combat child poverty, strengthen the opportunities of families with children in the housing market, ensure children's upbringing and strengthen gender equality in the labour market and in everyday life for a better distribution in parental insurance. Growing segregation, child poverty, gender gaps – it is problems in the welfare state that we need to face and do something about. Several of these measures lie in family economic policy. When children grow up in unsafe family conditions or insecure living conditions, they are adversely affected very much around the child. A report from the National Board of Health and Welfare a few years ago estimated that between 10,000 and 15 000 children were in some form of homelessness. About twice as many had a parent in homelessness. I'm afraid this has been the case for a long time. One of the Green Party's committee movements lists a number of reforms needed to break the poor housing conditions for families with children. We need to get away from evictions of families with children. Among other things, we want the housing allowance and the housing supplement to be strengthened and improved. We need to build a socially sustainable society in which we break the bad patterns and create belonging and integration instead of segregation and in which we fight child poverty. Family policy is crucial here, although a number of other measures are also needed. But we need to turn our ambitions up. Child allowance, maintenance allowance and housing allowance are important, especially for households with the lowest income. We need to continuously review and increase the amount of compensation in order to reduce the income gap. We're an equal country. Gender equality is at a high level in Sweden in an international comparison; we all know that. But that does not mean that we should feel very satisfied. Pay differentials and differences in both the home and the labour market remain significant. A key to a more equal society, a more equal working life, more equal income, more equal pensions and much more lies in the withdrawal of parental days in parental insurance. Women account for the vast majority of the days taken. We have to do something about this. During the child's first two years, only every five days of parental insurance is taken out by fathers. This is detrimental to equality. It's not good for the family, and it's not good for the baby. We have tried long enough now with different methods and incentives, and the only thing that turns out to work to create a more equal withdrawal is to make parental insurance more individual. More days need to be reserved for each parent. We have an investigation on the table since 2017 that proposes a three-part withdrawal where each parent withdraws one third and the last third can be transferred, between the parents or to someone else related to the child. The Green Party wants to implement the proposals in the investigation, but notes, not least after today's debate, that support for this is unfortunately lacking among the parliamentary parties. Mr President, I would like to We continue to push for a more child-friendly and family-friendly society and greater equality on the basis of our proposals, which are included in the motions dealt with in this report. Nevertheless, we note that several good reforms in the area of family policy have been implemented or are being implemented with the Green Party in government. Let me give you some recent examples. From mid-year, July, we increase maintenance support by between SEK 100 and 150 per month and children. It is an accurate distribution policy measure for single parents, mostly women, who will now be able to offer their children a better financial situation. It also strengthens gender equality. We've set up an investigation into a gender-neutral parental code. A number of important reforms will be possible if the proposals in this study are supported. Among other things, children are obviously entitled to all their parents, even if there are more than two. In fact, that is often the case in today's families. Last week the government – at last, let's say – made a decision that same-sex couples should become parents automatically, just like married heterosexual couples. However, the report also contains some other proposals, Mr President. There are proposals from the opposition to shorten parental leave, to delay withdrawal and to remove the reserved months from parental leave. These are proposals that the Green Party does not support. These are suggestions that would impair the ability to be a parent and reduce contact between children and parents, especially between children and their fathers. In these parts, the Green Party wants to go exactly the other way: in the long term, it is a good idea to extend and strengthen parental leave, but above all, to individualise parental insurance more and, above all, to advance the father's time with the children so that this contact is already established when the children are young. Nor do we want to limit or test the general child benefit, which has served our families well for many decades now. Unfortunately, such proposals are among the movements of the opposition. Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party run our policy through the government. I therefore call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-562	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the motions that have been made during the general period of exercise in the area of family law. The Committee on Civil Liberties proposes that the Riksdag address two requests, so-called announcements, to the government in the area of family law. One announcement concerns family home placements and the possibility of custody transfer and adoption in this context. The call is now to carry out such a review as a matter of urgency and then to come back with a legislative proposal. On this issue, we have a joint reservation from the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party. We have this because we note that, quite recently, the Parliament addressed a similar announcement to the Government and that, following that announcement, things have also happened. Like the other parties, we think this issue is very important, and we are pleased to note that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Minister of Equal Opportunities Märta Stenevi have announced that the government will set up an inquiry into this very issue during the spring, i.e. the parental code's regulation of custody transfer and adoption of family homes. Instead, since an investigation is underway, we want the Riksdag to reject the motions in this area. I therefore support our reservation number 9. The second announcement is that the Government should give priority to the creation of a voluntary public will register. The purpose of such a register is to avoid the risk that wills do not emerge after a death. We support this call to the government. Mr President, I would like to The debate on family law has for a long time also come to be about international adoptions, unfortunately not for any positive reason. The data on irregularities and sometimes pure kidnappings where children in the 1960s to the 1990s have been stolen from their parents in connection with international adoptions are information that is difficult to take in. It actually hurts all over me when I even think about it. We need to get to the bottom of this and find out what really happened. If it is as we fear, we in the Green Party see it as extremely important that those adopted by what are suspected of being illegal adoptions receive support and redress. We also see the need for greater transparency for the adopted. They shall be entitled to all documents relating to their adoptions. In the future, we must also ensure that adoptions to Sweden are carried out in a legally secure manner. I have met several of the organisations concerned, and I think that we should now, in dialogue with them, make a plan for what it should look like in the future. Today, in this debate, I want us all to give a thought to the adopted, their ignorant adoptive parents and their biological parents. All children's rights must be protected. There are no exceptions.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-569	Mr President, I would like to Finally, it is time for the debate on family law! This is an area that deals with many different important elements, such as marriage, division of property and inheritance. But family law is also a difficult area. It's hard because it's so close to us and it touches our feelings. It is about the most difficult of all: relations, money and power. Some areas that were originally in this report have been lifted out to be dealt with while government proposals for them come in the spring. They will therefore be debated at that time. This concerns the abolition of foreign polygamy, custody and parenthood. The conditions for family life have changed over time and will continue to change even if we cannot predict how. In an increasingly globalised world, we can meet love anywhere on earth, and situations where different views and regulations collide with each other arise. Love between people is the finest thing we have, but our so-called systems are not always made to fit. Of course, it is not that we have always lived historically in what is commonly called nuclear families. In fact, it seems that it has been quite a short time, and that is far from everyone. But much of today's legislation is, after all, based on that view. Today it is far from unusual that an adult can have several children with several other adults or that more adults than two choose to have children together. These children may have come into existence in old school-wise but also using technology in different ways. A man may have donated sperm to his lesbian friends who live in a relationship and long for children. I think one of my finest decisions in Parliament was when we legislated on assisted conception for single people, which has given me one of my amazing nephews. Our different new ways of living and choosing our lives put our legislation to the test when situations arise that it has not yet taken up. I am no stranger to saying that legislation is not the most fast-footed tool we have. Often it is for good but sometimes for bad. Many people's desire to have children is just such an area. One example is the legislation on surrogate motherhood, which is difficult from various aspects. I mean mainly from the child's perspective because I choose to have a child's perspective on these issues. I am not saying this because I want surrogate motherhood to become legal in Sweden but rather because it is about how we should relate to the different situations that arise when Swedes buy these services from women in other countries. These and related issues are looked at in the investigation called Extended opportunities to make foreign parenting applicable in Sweden. The investigation will be completed in June this year. We have been told that it seems that much has gone wrong about international adoptions. Just as Emma Hult did before me, I would like to highlight this. Among other things, adoptions from Chile have rightly received attention after the victims have pushed the issues themselves. Children may have been separated from their families in Chile in ways that are hard to understand. In some cases, it may even involve theft of children. Right now, there's a criminal investigation into this in Chile. The same thing has most likely happened in other so-called donor countries, i.e. countries from which Swedes have adopted children. Minister Lena Hallengren was recently interviewed in DN about this and said:.I see that we will also need to review how the adoption agency worked in Sweden during the 1960s to 1990s. She also said that this has been brought up to date by the Chilean criminal investigation, and I said earlier that we should wait for it. But now it seems to be running out of time so we may have to start our review before. ..................................................... We have a duty to do what we can so that people can find answers to questions about their origins. Perhaps we also need to have a proper discussion about the phenomenon of international adoptions. Last week we were reached by the news that a Swedish couple had gone to Russia to return a child adopted there. Not all details were included in the news report, but it was difficult to grasp. Of course, I've heard of such situations in the past – that parents who have been lucky enough to have children by other means than biological ones for various reasons wanted to return the children – but then it has been reported from other countries. But of course the opposite is also true. Many children in Sweden, most of them, have a good time. As a society, however, we have not been able to guarantee that all children will have a safe upbringing. You can read reports from Bris, for example, to get a snapshot of how many children have it. There are major shortcomings in home environments and parents who, for various reasons, cannot assume parental responsibility. It tells me something about the view of children and of the right to be a parent seems to have become a bit distorted here and there. We can never see children as a right, but when the children are here they should have a lot of rights. The best interests of the child should always be the guiding principle when we discuss these issues – always. From the Social Democrats we have a reservation in this report. It is about our not agreeing to make another announcement to the government on issues of custody transfer and adoption in family homes placements, which I am guessing will be mentioned by future speakers. It is certainly not about us not agreeing with the substance – these are incredibly important issues for children – but about the announcement that has been made before and that it is now working on the issue. As Emma Hult said before me, ministers Morgan Johansson and Märta Stenevi only announced the other week that the government will in the spring set up an investigation on the parental code and these issues. We think this is great and important for the children affected. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation number 9.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-584	Mr President, I would like to We're born, we grow, we have children of our own. A lot of people get married, sometimes we get divorced and eventually we die. It's not exactly a fairy tale ending, but that's it. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 8 on saving in surrogate arrangements abroad. In a society, the events I just mentioned are regulated by laws that exist to protect us and make the consequences of our actions a little more predictable. The rules and laws that exist in the area of family law are also very governed by what society considers morally right. The view of what is considered right and right in a society changes over time. At the same time, new family constellations are being created. This also requires that legislation be amended and monitored in the development of society. The fact that Members of Parliament see the need to amend and improve legislation in the area of family law is demonstrated by the large number of motions we are debating today. I will highlight some of these proposals, Mr President, but the proposals that I am not addressing today contain many wise and urgent views from many different parties that I take with me in the continued work of Moderates to constantly reform our family policy as society changes and evolves. Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to talk about what has touched on so many of the previous two speakers, namely the situation of vulnerable children when transferring custody and adopting them. The story of Esmeralda, or a little heart, as we have come to know her as, was tragic. Her fate leaves no one unmoved, and all of the parties in Parliament have agreed that family homes need stronger protection. Everyone has used the best interests of the child in their argumentation. We have also heard that here today. The insecurity of family homes can be great. They don't know how long they can stay in the family home. Although the child has rooted in the new family and has had a safe everyday life with new siblings and stable, loving family home parents, the biological parents' right to the child can outweigh the child's best interests. Mr President, this is not about the biological parents being deprived of their rights to their children, but it is always the best interests of the child that will ultimately determine the child's future. In order to strengthen the child's rights, we would like Moderates to ensure that a mandatory review of the transfer of custody is carried out no later than two years after the child has arrived at the family home instead of three years today. A transfer of custody means that the family home parents take over legal responsibility for the child. For the child, this means that they can feel safe in staying in the family home. This gives both children, family home parents and siblings security in their everyday life and future. We also want the child's age to weigh heavily when deciding to transfer custody. Small children who are placed in family homes connect more quickly to their new family, may not know their biological parents and may be more likely to suffer by being torn up from their surroundings. Our small and most vulnerable need to be protected and given the best conditions for a safe and safe upbringing. A bad start to life should not mean that they cannot have a secure future. Both the Civil Committee and the Social Committee have announced to the government that they will urgently return to the Riksdag with legislative changes that will strengthen the child's rights and in which the child's best interests will be decisive for decisions on the child's future. The Moderates therefore welcomed the investigation that was set up to ensure that the best interests of the child should always weigh the most when different interests are put against each other when examining when family home care is to cease. Mr President, I would like to Our disappointment was therefore great when the investigator presented his proposal last week. The investigator did not make any suggestion that the best interests of the child should determine when family home care is to be tried in court. According to the investigator, it is not deemed to comply with legal certainty requirements. This doesn't hold. In an investigation from 2015, there is a suggestion that the child's best interests should be included as their own props. A large majority of the consultation bodies agreed. The proposals put forward by the investigator now do not stand up. They're not enough. Today's decision includes a proposal for an announcement to the government. The announcement continues to point out that the best interests of the child must be the weightiest in matters relating to custody transfer and adoption. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party are opposed to the proposal with the argument that an investigation should be set up. Now that they see the major deficiency in the investigation into the end of family home care and that the child's very best is not included as his own props – what we all agreed on is so important – I hope they will change their mind and vote in favour of the committee's proposal. The government has clearly not understood what the Riksdag has said through previous announcements. Now we will say it again: the best thing for the child is what is crucial. Mr President, I would like to The children are the most important, the finest and also the most fragile thing we have. They do not choose to enter our world, but once they are here, it is our duty to receive them and offer them the security and security they deserve and are entitled to. Children are born into different constellations and situations. Some children are born by a surrogate mother outside Sweden. In fact, in 2019 more children came with foreign surrogates than children came to Sweden through foreign adoptions. Legislation has not followed developments and needs to be changed in order for these children too to start their lives with the best conditions. Today, it is too complicated and takes too long to determine who is the guardian of these children. The lack of clarity also means that both parents and children lack the rights of other families to parental benefit and protection in the event of illness or accident. Changes and improvements have been made to facilitate and accelerate the process of determining paternity according to Swedish law. This is a step in the right direction but far from enough. The legal situation is still uncertain, something that the Supreme Court clearly indicated when they recently stated that in some cases, although there is no legal support for it, there may be reason to acknowledge a child's legal relationship with a prospective parent in Sweden. It is good that the Supreme Court makes the right decision on its own, but it would be even better if there were legal support for these children. At the moment, an investigation is under way into increased opportunities to make foreign parenting applicable in Sweden. The investigation includes children created by an international surrogate arrangement. The decision in the investigation must be that the child's best interest is to have a legal relationship with the intended parents in Sweden as early as possible. Mr President, I would like to The third area I would like to highlight today is the need to abolish the requirement for a period of reflection in the event of divorce. When two people marry, there is no need for reflection, but in divorce the requirement is different. Of course, there are rules and requirements for protection in cases where there are children under the age of 16. That's reasonable. But, Mr President, when two adults want to divorce and there are no minors in the picture, we Moderates think that a six-month reflection period is unreasonable, especially in cases where one party has been violated or subjected to violence in marriage. We Moderates therefore want the six-month reflection period to be removed in cases where there are no minors in the picture. Mr President, I would like to Family law is not simple. Views of what is right and wrong are often influenced by faith and morality. In a modern society like Sweden, however, laws must be passed to protect the weak while maintaining respect for people's ability, will and right to decide over their lives. I look forward to more debates on urgent legislative amendments as society develops and changes.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-602	Mr President, I would like to Children are entitled to their parents, but parents are not entitled to children. That's what I usually say. But are children really entitled to their parents? They do not have that with the legislation in force today, in any case. Since the government has chosen to have an adult perspective, children still do not have a natural right to both their parents. That right exists only for children born by married parents. Despite announcements, repeated reminders and recurrent criticisms of the current regime, the government chooses to maintain an outdated regulatory framework. It does not help that Sweden has signed international conventions stating that children should have the right to their parents, that children should have the right to family life and that children have the right to be treated equally. Yet the government does nothing to ensure that many children today are never entitled to both their parents. Other countries have done so. Other countries have introduced regulations that protect the child's right to both his or her parents. Other countries have also solved the problems that our government said it could not solve. Morgan Johansson has repeatedly stood in this Chamber and said that it is not possible to register paternity before the child is born, that it is not possible to give the child the right to both of his parents and that it is not possible to create equivalent rules for people who are unmarried. But I'm telling you it's possible. Of course, the father can be registered in a register already with the midwife, if you like. It works in both Norway and Finland. The systems are ready to copy, in true conservative style. It is possible to give children the right to both their parents. Norway has done it. Paragraph 35 of the Children's Act begins with parents who are not married having parental responsibility together for joint children. I apologize if something was unclear in the translation. After this clear statement in the Norwegian law, the rules that must be in place, that is to say, about exceptions and about how joint custody can be divided up or become an individual when needed for the child's sake. That's obvious. But the starting point is clear, namely that unmarried people also share the same parental responsibility. Here the unmarried father is not a secondary figure or something less important to the child. Mr President, I would like to It is true that a possibility is now being introduced to notify children electronically in connection with the confirmation of paternity, which some parties in this House think is sufficient. It is not only the government parties that are satisfied, but also the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, which surprises me a little. For me, it is a clear adult perspective that we as adult parents can fix this with the help of a bank ID and a simple login and that therefore there is no need for a change of law. But then you've missed what's important. When Norway changed its law, it was precisely with a focus on how to make the law equal, and the starting point was the child and the child's rights. Norway has also signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and Sweden would need a similar holistic approach. But when the government initiated a new investigation last autumn, it was not the child that was in focus. No, it was, as usual, the priorities of adults that were important to include. Social parents should be given rights, and gay women should not have to adopt in marriage. But where did the rights of the child go? Of course, the most natural thing in the world would be to include the rights of the child, and above all the right of the child to both his or her parents, in an investigation. Yet they chose not to. This investigation was set up after the report on the Convention on the Rights of the Child identified the deficiency, i.e. that children do not have the same rights to both their parents – which of course should be obvious when we write 2021, not 1921 or 1821. I do not have the same confidence in this government as the Christian Democrats and the Moderates say they have in the text that answers this reservation. Why has it not been corrected before? Sweden signed in 1990, and that the government would suddenly correct this without pressure from the Riksdag, I simply do not believe. I do not believe at all that the government intends to act on the basis of the investigation and take the necessary measures, as it says. On the contrary, I believe that this will continue to be an issue that is being obscured. Instead, priority is given to all other issues that the government considers to be larger. This is not a big issue for the government. It is also not a big issue for most parties, but it is a very big issue for the child who is actually deprived of one parent. It is also a big question based on how you view children and their parents. For my party, the child is an individual of its own with its own rights and not an appendage to the one who happened to have the child. The child's right to both his or her parents must be safeguarded. We must speak for the child, for the child cannot, of course, speak for himself. The child should never be dependent on the goodwill of others in order to have his or her rights fulfilled. In our country, it goes without saying that children have the right to their parents, to both their parents, and that should apply to all children. Of course, it would be most natural for the father of the child to be at the midwife's clinic and for the father to be registered there. After that, it is natural for custody to be shared when the child is born unless circumstances say otherwise. This is how it works today in Norway, and it could of course also work in Sweden. But it requires a government that not only runs placard politics and makes placard politics play but actually really cares. Mr President, I would like to Many proposals are being discussed today, and unfortunately I do not have time to go into all of them. But at least I would like to mention a few more of those that we have tabled. For us, will records are an old cane horse. We have pushed the issue, and that is something that is really being asked for. A simple register of which wills exist so that wills do not risk disappearing should be easily resolved by the Tax Agency. Today there are registers for prenuptial agreements, so it should be easy to use the same system. Yet nothing is happening in this area. I hope that this announcement can speed up the process. While I am on the rules of succession, I would like to say that cousins should, of course, also be given the right of inheritance back. There is even an investigation into Nordic inheritance rules that directly suggest that Sweden and other Nordic countries that have no inheritance rights for cousins should reintroduce it. Then common inheritance rules can be introduced throughout the Nordic region. I would like to endorse reservation 11, which deals with the issue of extraterrestrial joint custody of unmarried parents.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-617	Mr President, I would like to This is a report which contains many different issues. However, as has already been said, we have saved a number of questions for the spring debates, so I am really looking forward to spring. I have worked a lot on these issues for a number of years, just like my colleagues, and I have gone in with my eyes on the child's best interests. That is where I have put my commitment, and there are many different parts to talk about when it comes to the best interests of the child. It is about when the child is born, that is, that the child has the right to his guardians, his biological parents and his social parents. It is about what happens when the original family fails or if the child has a different family than the original one. The child must have a safe upbringing. But it's also about when parents choose to live apart. Even then, the child must have a safe upbringing. For this reason, I will try to touch on three areas in this speech. One is what the previous speaker spoke very warmly about. It's about joint custody from the very beginning. I am very surprised that the government does not take this step forward and see how important it is to value both parents equally for the children. A majority of children are born today without two guardians because a minority of children are born in a marriage. The investigation that is now under way still does not focus on the whole, but focuses on the traditional marriage. Another area is host motherhood. I want to see an altruistic host motherhood in Sweden because it is another way for children to come to life. But it should be safe. When it comes to host motherhood, there are parents who choose to go to other countries to get help from a host mother to have a child. But it's not just about Swedish parents using services from foreign women. There are very many Swedish women who go to another country and get help with insemination to have a child in Sweden for a sister who cannot carry the child or for a brother. Whether a child is born by a non-Swedish mother or a Swedish mother, the problem arises again from the child's perspective of being entitled to his or her parents. After all, it is the mother who is the mother of the child, whether or not that was the idea, and then a long process begins for the child to have its legal guardians. However, it is still important to maintain that the child is also entitled to his or her biological origin. We should not forget those pieces, but that is not the same as removing the possibility of getting the right guardian from the start. There is always a patchwork in this area, which is legally complex. As long as the government does not take in the whole perspective and address all questions about what applies, whether the child is born in another country or in Sweden, and ensures the child's right to its guardians, we continue to have a problem. As far as the family of origin is concerned, an investigation is announced into the acquisition of custody transfer and adoption. But the reason why I support this announcement, which is based on one of the proposals made by the Center Party in this report, is that the government has not shown that it wants to take these steps forward and put the child first all the way. Therefore, I think it is important to say once again: Grab these pieces! Put the child first, and act so that something happens! After all, this is based on children's right to safety. In this context, we should not forget to talk about the knowledge needed by those who work with children and questions about children. Taking care of children requires that those doing the investigations do so in a good way and in a safe way so that the right child is taken care of. Custody transfer is about the safety of small children but also about the possibility of older young people finally landing somewhere after having had to change family, in some cases many times. Mr President, I would like to The third area is the division of property. As the legislation stands today, in practice a party that gets to grips with a division of property can last for a very long time. There are settlement processes that last six years, eight years, ten years and never get solved. It may be that there are two adults who are fighting about how much capital was on the day they decided to separate or how much value the house or car or the loans have. In many cases, however, there are also children who suffer double as a result of their parents fighting and never finishing their division of property. There are suggestions here. In a rather old investigation, there are suggestions on how to speed up these processes. I find it sad that we cannot lift those proposals, look at them again and put them in relation to the changes made a number of years ago. How have those changes come to pass, and what should we take up with these proposals so that we can get rid of disputes that can take such an incredible amount of time? It affects the children, and it also affects the adults who never finish. Maybe someone gets to move around and sleep on couches because it doesn't have a place to stay. I have some time left, Mr President. Then I am going to have to mention something about international adoptions, which previous speakers have talked about. I am pleased that the Social Democrats will now address this issue, because I too have had a debate in this House about the need to deal with international adoptions. I say it again: the children are entitled to their origins. We can't do anything about what happened on the ground, but we can work on the issue so it won't happen again. We can make sure it doesn't happen again. Then it is not only about investigating what has been but also about the courage to see. Should we have this entire organisation in the same way today as we have had it, or must we change how the adoption process itself takes place in Sweden? I really hope that the government will get to grips with that now. Mr President, I would like to This is a report that has an incredible number of questions. I've been dealing with family law. There are more issues – including that of a will register, which I would like to mention because it is an announcement that is also based on a centre-party proposal. Finally, I would like to support reservation number 5. I can now also agree to reservation number 8 because my moderate colleague, Mrs Cecilie, has done so in the past.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-633	Mr President, I would like to I was going to spin on the matter of surrogate motherhood. For me, it is quite obvious that children are not a commodity and that women's bodies are not factories to produce children. Only in November, on the International Day against Violence against Women, 200 women's organisations from 50 different countries called on the Member States of the Hague Conference on Private International Law to stop the organisation's proposal for the registration of international surrogate arrangements. The Hague Conference was accused of meeting the surrogate industry by working to legalise trafficking in women's reproductive rights. The Swedish Women's Lobby demanded that Sweden act to stop this trafficking in children. The Swedish Women's Association has also called for a total ban on all kinds of surrogate motherhood, even abroad. The list of organisations that want to prevent trafficking in children can be made almost indefinitely. There have been many problems with the surrogate industry. Women have been injured and even died. Children have been hurt. The client has changed his mind and refused to accept the child. Intermediaries have demanded compensation from women who have become pregnant or even given birth to their own children when they have been subject to rent. Many countries have banned surrogate motherhood and never allowed it. What makes the Moderates, Centers and Liberals think surrogate motherhood is something that we must hurry to introduce and simplify in Sweden?
i-GD2cLjHzrkupHdjpVH3Gff	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Eskilandersson, for the question. For me, it is about regulating something that we need to have good regulation around. Yes, there are women who are not host mothers of their own free will. But that is precisely why I say that I want to introduce an altruistic – that is, voluntary, non-economic – host motherhood in Sweden. If we allow it in Sweden, Swedish couples who want to use this opportunity do not need to go to another country. It is also about the families who choose to go to another country. There we need to say from the Swedish side: Okay, which countries do we have? What kind of agreement is there? What is our security and guarantee that this is done in a good way? As long as we leave it unregulated, there will continue to be major problems. Rather, if we help parents to get on the right track, it will be better. Now that we have regulation for, for example, an insemination to work better, it has improved and brought greater security to all parties involved. Again-- it's the kids that's all about. The children must have their guardians, no matter how they come about. It is not the children who choose, but they must have their guardians.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-642	Mr President, I would like to The whole reservation is about making it easier to use women in other countries and making it easier to bring children here after using women in other countries. First, it was to countries like India and Thailand that Westerners turned to rent a womb. But as these countries have banned trade in surrogate motherhood, it has moved, mainly to other countries with poor economics, where the position of women is low. In addition, we can often read about how shameful it is for women to sell their bodies. A woman from Georgia who has given birth to a surrogate child herself and is now waiting for her second to say that this is not something she is proud of and that she will never tell her own children how she has made a living because it would be too shameful. This trade therefore wants the Center Party and other parties to more or less legitimise. It also wants to speed this up – it does not think that the work to make this trade work better and to legitimise it goes fast enough. There are a number of international companies on the Internet who are happy to help with this trade in women – for payment, of course. They are happy to be there to find more women who can be used in the trade in children. Today, however, we have a regulatory framework which, to some extent, hinders this, because the regulatory framework is not adapted to this organised form of enterprise. Why does this industry want to benefit? I really don't understand it at all.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-648	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson deliberately misunderstands me. I'm not looking to benefit an industry. That is precisely why I want to build a regulatory framework that does not make this a favour to an industry. I want children to be born and have security and guardians in Sweden. I want this to happen on a voluntary basis. And I really believe that if we give the opportunity in Sweden it will be part of getting it safer. But, of course, we must also have approved agreements with countries and with those who help to implement host motherhood. I am absolutely convinced that there are many women who do this on their own will. There are those who do not do so on their own will– I am also aware of that – and who use this for a reason that we think is unethical. That is precisely why we need to regulate it. I think that Mikael Eskilandersson deliberately misunderstands my ambitions in this.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-652	Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised in the debate. I did not think that the international adoptions would be taken up and debated. This is a question I have been pushing for a while. Since 2018, the Left Party has been pushing the issue in the Swedish parliament. SVT then came with a revelation about the adoptions from Chile and that they did not go right to. We were not the first to talk about and discuss these issues. First out were people who had been adopted, who at the individual level had pushed the issues and eventually organized themselves to put even more pressure. I am pleased that other parties are now seeing the seriousness of how these international adoptions have been treated. We have previously exercised about investigating the international adoptions to Sweden – then we did not get a response. I am glad that it now seems that we are hearing this out. However, I do not understand why we should stop at the 1990s when it comes to investigating international adoptions. Did something special happen in 1999, which makes us stop? I'm telling you, we're going to investigate all adoptions. Everyone who has been adopted must feel confident that things have gone right. A lot of people have been hit. So investigate properly! Mr President, I would like to Having said that – at the end of last year, an inquiry was set up into parental law for everyone, something we have been exercising about. Part of the mission aims to make the parental code gender neutral, and the investigator will consider introducing a more general and gender-neutral concept of parenthood. Today's family law legislation is largely based on heteronormative notions of what a family looks like and contains many provisions and assumptions related to gender and sexuality. Mr President, I would like to However, since same-sex couples have been given the right to marry, adopt and insemination, some additions have been made to the existing provisions. In the light of legal and social developments, it appears unjustified to maintain and maintain current heteronormative and gender-stereotyped legislation, which is becoming increasingly difficult to apply in a legally secure and sound manner. The Left Party considers that there is no reason to divide parenthood and distinguish between motherhood and paternity. Regardless of the sexual orientation and the legal or biological sex of the person who gives birth to the child, that person is the parent of the child. The same applies to the person or persons who are otherwise considered to be the child's parents. The investigation that is now under way was set up after we had exercised about this. I will follow the work on this issue and hope that future legislation will follow in our time. Mr President, I would like to It is also in the spring that proposals are underway in the area of family law. Suggestions will make it easier for parents when their child has been born. Laws and rules should be adapted to today's society. The Left Party has previously exercised the need to simplify and modernise the untimely procedures for determining paternity when the parents are unmarried. We have pointed out that a presumption of parenthood – a confirmation of parenthood – should always apply in cases where the couple, regardless of sexual orientation or gender, are married or registered partners. The position of the child shall also be strengthened according to the Government's proposal. The Left Party believes, among other things, that every child should have a clear and explicit right to express his or her opinion in disputes concerning custody, housing and social relations. An unconditional right for children to speak on these issues is fully in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We believe that even small children have views about their life situation that are worth taking seriously. The right to own legal representation benefits all children whose parents argue about custody, housing or association, especially those children who are in harm's way. Mr President, I would like to Around the world, conditions are different for LGBTQ people. In some countries the death penalty is at risk. In Russia, rights have been in decline for a long time. Legislation has been introduced that prohibits propaganda for non-traditional sexual relations. Hate crimes are increasing in the country. Poland introduces LGBT-free zones. Catholic priests should no longer bless same - sex relationships. The Vatican stated on Monday that Gud cannot bless sin. Then it is particularly important that we continue to move in the right direction. The work on LGBTQ issues in the Nordic countries has been successful in recent years. Same-sex marriages are allowed in all Nordic countries. In the relationship between these countries, the Nordic Marriage Convention applies. It does not contain any provisions excluding same-sex marriages or same-sex spouses from the scope. However, the Nordic Marriage Convention does not apply to registered partnerships. We can easily fix that. I commend our reservation 2.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-668	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what was said in the previous speaker's speech. However, I have a question in an area that was not touched on there. In 2015, Håkan Ceders' investigation came Children's and young people's rights in forced care, where he highlights the child's best interests as his own props in these matters. "Requisition" means that certain conditions must exist in the event of a decision. Today, the committee is proposing an announcement to the government on the transfer of custody and adoption of family homes, in which we say that the best interests of the child should be included. We don't use the word. We don't use the word. We don't use the word. The Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have chosen to reserve their reservations against the announcement with the argument that the Riksdag has already made an announcement to the government. A few weeks ago another investigation came about when forced care of children and young people should be discontinued. The investigator who put forward the proposal says that the best interests of the child cannot be included as their own props there and should therefore not be taken into account. Now I know that Jon Thorbjörnson and the Left Party really think that the best interests of the child should be included. Therefore, I wonder: does Jon Thorbjörnson trust that the government will actually bring the best interests of the child when the new investigation is to be set up?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-673	Mr President, I would like to Yeah.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-674	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jon Thorbjörnson, for your answer! I do not want to say that the Left Party is naive or that Jon Thorbjörnson is naive. However, I am thinking of the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment made about the same announcement as the Committee on Civil Liberties last year. There we made it clear that the best interests of the child should be included. However, the investigation that came last week says that the best interests of the child cannot be included, because it is legally insecure. We in the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats clearly say to the government: Don't get us wrong! Put the child's best interests first! In view of the investigation proposal that came in last week, we see that the government is not sensitive enough. The government needs to hear this again, clearly from the Riksdag. That's what the government gets with this announcement. But even better would it have been if there had been a united committee behind this announcement, where we clearly say it again – it cannot be repeated often enough – that the best interests of the child should be included. When a new investigator is to be appointed, it should be clear that it should be included as its own props. In 2015, it was included, and a majority of the consultation bodies said yes. Why aren't you with us this time?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-679	Mr President, I would like to Of course we work for the good of the child. Among other things, I mentioned in my speech that children should be allowed to have their own attorney in legal disputes concerning access and custody precisely for the child's voice to be heard. It should not be about two parents fighting for a child, but about the child having the right to a good future. We have seen how children's rights do not always come first. Look at international adoptions, for example! That's where kids got caught. A few years ago I heard a radio documentary in Swedish Radio, Taking a child, showing the other side of how things can go when you try to get another family to take care of a child. Not long ago, a girl who was cared for here in Sweden disappeared. She had repeatedly expressed her reluctance to be in the place where she had been placed. So it is important to see both sides of the matter. I agree that we should lift the child's best interests and look after the child.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-683	Mr President, I would like to In this report, the committee proposes that Parliament address two announcements to the government. One concerns legatee registers, and the other concerns family home placements and the possibility of custody transfer and adoption in this context. We Christian Democrats support both these announcements and are pleased that we can agree on these two important elements. Politics is often about showing differences, but I also think it is important sometimes to show unity and bring about changes together. Of course, it is difficult to plan ahead, but as a citizen it is very helpful. You get things that you want, and it usually gets less problematic when you take the extra time to plan. Imagine yourself that you have also thought and planned what will happen to your assets after you have passed away and that you have established a will. But if there are several wills, it can be difficult to know which one applies. Or you may not find your will – it may even be untraceable. For me and for many, it is important to ensure, as far as possible, that the last will of a person emerges if the person has planned what will happen to the assets. Can someone explain to me why there is a difference between estate records, marriage contracts and wills when it comes to securing what happens to assets? By law, estate records and marriage contracts must be registered with the Swedish Tax Agency, but for some inscrutable reason it does not apply to wills. As far as wills are concerned, in principle, there is no order at all for them to have a legal basis in the event of death, which in my view creates problems rather than solves them. The writer of a will has no guarantee that it will not disappear if it is kept at home or in a safe deposit box that can be opened without witnesses. Anyone who takes part in the will, in turn, has very few guarantees that it has come about in the right way or that it is really the person's last will. In our legal base, a will can be either written or verbally based on certain forms. In practice, a person who has no family in life depends on having his will registered. Anyone who wants to bequeath part of his estate to someone other than the immediate family members is forced to live with the risk of the will simply being destroyed by someone who has an interest in it. It creates legal uncertainty. In spring 2019, at the proposal of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Parliament issued an announcement to the Government to proceed with the process of reviewing the possibility of registering wills in a public register. According to the announcement, the government should also return to the Riksdag in an appropriate context and report the results of that work. In an interpellation debate that I had with the Minister in 2019, it was said that work is in progress. However, we have not seen any result of this work. I guess I have to assume that those at the Ministry of Justice are locked up and have workshops on this subject as it seems particularly difficult to come up with a result. There is already an investigation that tells us how this can be. However, this has taken more than two years for the government, so I am beginning to wonder where this work is being done. One can think about whether Sweden would be unique if one were to create a will register. No, we wouldn't be. There are quite a few countries. The neighbouring countries Denmark and Norway have a similar system, so it would not be at all unique if we had one in Sweden. I believe that a will is a person's last will and that the least we can do as politicians is to create as smooth and legally secure a system as possible. For me, it's a will record. I am very pleased that a united committee can support the announcement of a will register and put extra pressure on the government in this regard.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-693	Mr President, I would like to Children's rights to their parents must not become their parents' rights to their children. Children's best interests must always go first. Children are not parents' possessions. The child's right to security, care and love must always be put first. If parents are not able to give this, it is the responsibility of politicians and authorities to do so. When a child is placed in a family home and the biological parents wish to regain their child, the best interests of the child must be decisive. That is not the case today. That is why the law needs to be amended, and so the committee is again calling on the government to come back with legislative proposals to ensure that the best interests of the child really go ahead with all other interests in terms of custody transfer and adoption in family homes. Since the last announcement, there have been a number of proposals for legislative changes in this area, including that compulsory care should not cease unless circumstances in the home have improved in a comprehensive and lasting manner. It may sound good, but it's not enough. A clear child perspective is still lacking. We believe that the trial of forced care needs to pay particular attention to the child's attitude and whether the child has been cared for since his or her age or for a long time in a family home. We will continue to fight for the best interests of the child to be the starting point and for the voice of children to be heard both on this issue and on many other issues. Mr President, I would like to We also have a few reservations on the matter that I would like to raise. The first concerns the age limit of joint ventures. Today there is a lack of an age limit in joint ventures, which means that adults' relationships with minors are also regarded as cohabiting relationships within the meaning of the law. In our opinion, there is reason to problematise the fact that the regulation of joint ventures becomes fully applicable despite the fact that children under the age of 18 have limited legal capacity to act in economic matters. We believe that an in-depth analysis is needed so that the joint ventures cannot be used in any context to give legitimacy and recognition to the same oppressive traditions that lie behind, for example, child marriage. The second reservation is about digital messaging. Last year 6 1⁄2 million Swedes declared digitally. Most people are used to it and assume that most things can be handled digitally. It is good that it is now possible to send all documents digitally to courts in family law cases and that the investigation on paternity and parenthood proposes that electronic confirmation of paternity and parenthood should be possible in the future. At the same time, we can see that digital processing is still not possible, for example, in the registration of marriage agreements in the marriage register, gifts between spouses, housing documents and the application for examination of impediments. We believe that, as a general rule, family law documents should be drawn up and submitted electronically. Another issue, Mr President, where today's legislation needs to be modernised concerns joint custody of unmarried parents. More children are now born outside a marriage than within a marriage. Current legislation, which automatically excludes fathers as guardians in cases where they are not married to the child's mother, is outdated, lacks equality and is negative from a child's perspective. The children's convention investigation has also concluded that it is not in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child that parents who are unmarried at birth are not directly given joint custody of the child. The main rule should therefore be that all children from birth are under the custody of both parents. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about guardians. There is a need for a broad reform of the system of guardians, good men and trustees. A new investigation should be set up to highlight and solve the problems of recruitment and supervision. Among other things, a national supervisory authority needs to be established and a national register of deputy representatives established so that representatives who have proved unfit for the task in their own municipality cannot offer their services in another municipality. Of course, we support all our reservations on the matter, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservation 11 on automatic joint custody of unmarried parents.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-703	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 only for time to come, although we naturally support both our reservations in the report. This motion for a resolution is a little special because it has the title of Housing Policy and it actually spans a great many more reports from the Committee on Civil Liberties, including the report on Rental Law, which we discussed here just a couple of three weeks ago. All these reports are linked when we talk about the functioning of housing policy in Sweden. It feels like it was very recently that this term of office began. Unfortunately, I believe that this is because so little has happened on the part of the government in this policy area. Sweden recently received a new Minister of Housing in the form of Märta Stenevi, Mr President. She began her press conference by stating that it is important to point out that the mission as Minister of Housing is about much more than just housing construction. That, in fact, is correct in substance. But the problem, Mr President, is that this government, and perhaps the Green Party in particular, which has had the portfolio of housing ministers throughout the time of the Lövven Government, has allowed housing policy to deal with virtually everything except to ensure that better conditions are created for building in this country and making it simpler, smoother and cheaper. Mr President, I would like to The government's biggest housing policy reform is that it spends SEK 11 billion on subsidizing housing which to a very large extent had still been built. They are happy to speak out for the fact that profits in welfare are problematic. But this money that could reasonably have been useful elsewhere in the machinery or – why not – could have gone back to the citizens' own pockets, where they originally belonged, has been spent on subsidising housing that had been built anyway. The analyst Evidens has conducted a study of who received these apartments. One of the objectives has been distribution policy – the construction of cheap rental apartments – but we can see that many who have received apartment contracts have an income equal to or higher than the average in the places where homes have been built. To a large extent, they have been allocated to people already established on the housing market. I am not going to moralise this, Mr President, but it does say something about the great bluntness of the reform. Another dysfunctional thing on the Swedish housing market and in its functioning is the leasing system. One of the most important elements of the January Agreement was, as Annie Lööf put it, the five points relating to the reform of the leasing arrangements. We can now see that two of the five points, namely the two points which the Social Democrats brought to the negotiating table, have been implemented. It seems, however, that the three points that were included as demands by the Liberals and the Center Party are being pushed in the right direction, with classically social democratic power games. Mr President, I would like to It barely contained a thumbnote of the January agreement in this part. This is problematic because, unfortunately, we seem to have to sum up another lost term of office for housing policy in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We would really need to get to grips with what makes it expensive and lengthy to build in Sweden, whether in the case of multi-family houses or in the case of individual homes. The trade organisation Trä- och Möbelföretagen has calculated that the price for building a small house in the last 20 years has increased by almost half a million SEK only through new design requirements that have been imposed from politics. We Moderates believe that this is unreasonable. We believe that we need to carry out a thorough audit of the design requirements currently in force to see whether they are appropriate overall and whether they correspond to the extra cost they impose on individuals who want to build and who dream of creating a new home of their own. There is also a problem of competition, Mr President, as some of the design requirements become so specific that they steer towards individual materials and even individual products. This creates what the Swedish Competition Authority has been tasked with investigating, namely a lack of competition and productivity development on the building materials side in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to There is a wide range of things that would need to be put in place. Above all, Sweden now needs a government where the constituent parties agree on what needs to be done. I believe that there is a great deal of consensus between a number of bourgeois parties in this House on what needs to be done. One of the major problems is that some of these parties have tried to settle up with parties that have diametrically opposed views on what needs to be done. The problem when you try to compromise with someone who thinks exactly the opposite of what you think is that you risk standing at exactly the same point when the dust has settled. This, Mr President, is one of the biggest problems of Swedish housing policy at the moment.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-713	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden today we see a large number of unsafe and vulnerable areas, and there is a great risk that more of these areas will develop in Sweden. It is therefore important that we work in housing policy in order to ensure that we are looking forward to housing construction and that we do not again create more vulnerable areas in Sweden, where insecurity is growing strong today and where overcrowding is evident. A forward-looking approach is needed, and a housing policy is needed that understands that there is a strong link between high migration to Sweden and low housing. The Government has commissioned Boverket to develop an investigation to see if there is legislation that prevents property owners from influencing areas in terms of security and security and to achieve a form of BID collaboration, as it is called, i.e. a collaboration between different social actors. This collaboration may lead to safer areas in Sweden and that we can counteract drug sales, housing break-ins, violence and everything else that we currently see emerging in residential areas. That's very good. The Swedish Democrats have long talked about the need to ensure that we have cooperation in the residential areas. We need to have area planning in order for bluelight personnel to be able to act more safely as they enter the areas. It cannot continue as it is today, when blue-light personnel operating in unsafe areas are exposed to stoning and physical attack, when areas are blocked off so that the retreats of the police are hindered both in and out and when the activities in the areas are made more difficult. It is therefore good that now the government has finally commissioned Boverket to review how a collaboration can be created with property owners and other actors to get safer residential areas. Of course, that is not enough, but a number of other measures are needed in this area, particularly in the area of criminal policy. Today, however, we are discussing housing policy in the first place, which is why I will focus on it. With regard to new residential areas that are being built, it is important that we learn from what we have seen in the millions of programme areas in particular, from the difficulties that the police have to act there and from how much the construction of these areas actually affects security there. It is therefore important that, as we now build more residential areas in society, we include the actors. They need to be involved in ensuring that we do not again create more situations and areas in Sweden where we see insecurity growing. We need to involve the police and society's various actors to ensure together that we develop residential areas and prevent more unsafe areas from being built in Sweden. An investigation is needed to enable municipalities to build safe areas with the right tools. That is the next step, I believe, in order for us in future to get to residential areas that are safe. So security issues need to become a greater part of the urban planning process than we see today. A national action plan is also needed to create safe areas. The municipalities can do a lot today. They can adopt their own action plans and plan for themselves, but to make it possible in the best possible way, it is important to investigate this at a national level so that more municipalities, both small and large, can get access to the knowledge that such an investigation provides, but also the legislation that can then be implemented, when we see what needs there are. A series of housing policy reforms are needed today to overcome the large housing shortage that we are looking at in Sweden. We need to create a construction that harmonises the infrastructure. It would therefore be necessary for a housing infrastructure preparation to ensure that we coordinate the two important areas in order to make it possible to have more housing in place. We need to increase competition in terms of construction as we see very high house prices today. It can't go on like that. Even ordinary people must be able to afford to move into newly produced homes. We know that such housing is always expensive, but there is much to do in this area to push prices. We need more competition. Tender competition needs to be investigated in order to create better conditions for more smaller construction companies to be able to participate in the tenders. Smaller construction companies need better financial conditions to be able to accept bids. Finally, I would say, the government has begun to work in this area. Unfortunately, a holistic approach to competition in housing construction has not been taken. First of all, an investigation has been requested to review the market concentration of price formation in the building materials industry. That's a good first step. But there are so many more areas where competition in housing is concerned. This part is important, but so much more needs to be involved. The Swedish Democrats have highlighted these issues on a number of occasions. Take inspiration from the proposals we have put forward, and make sure that we can have increased construction, which does not mean increased building costs at the same time! A holistic approach is needed. Housing policy reforms are needed. We need to link them with the infrastructure, increase competition and ensure that construction companies receive better funding. We also need to review the issue of amortisation for those who today want to buy and finance their own home. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 26.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-727	Mr President, I would like to Despite high construction figures, the government cannot boast that the construction goals have almost been reached. Still 212 out of 290 municipalities report a housing shortage in some form. However, although many believe that it is in the big cities that more should be built, the pace and supply in the countryside is what worries me most as a center party. In many centre-led municipalities there is a need for housing. But there are also obstacles that prevent them from building, even though they want and need to. The write-down requirement is the most talked about. If you have low property values, the entire cost must be included in future annual accounts, and such margins do not exist in a normal housing company in a Swedish medium-sized municipality. Rural areas are hampered by the fact that its qualities are not valued by the banks, nor by Boverket, which is responsible for the credit guarantees that exist to facilitate the construction there. The Center Party wants to extend the guarantees so that more people can search and take part of them. A greater wide-sightedness in rural property values is what we want, both in terms of the requirement for direct depreciation from the accounting board and the possibility of using credit guarantees granted by Boverket. Mr President, I would like to The single most important reform for rural housing is not mentioned here. It is the study report Available beaches – a more differentiated beach protection. I hope and believe that the proposals that allow municipalities to identify large areas in their master plan where beachfront construction is allowed, where small water, dug ponds and ditches are not subject to beach protection rules, will help more people to build and live outside the big cities. Mr President, I would like to For tens of thousands of years, people in the Nordic countries have gone to watercourses to live and work. But gradually, natural behavior has been seen as unnatural and wrong. When the beach shelter is redesigned, the strength relations between town and country will be balanced. I hope that we will put an end to unreasonable assessments of beach protection and that the possibility of developing rural areas will not be hindered by the government now that the investigation has been referred and proposals will come. Mr President, I would like to We can see that the pandemic has caused more people to work at home. There is nothing positive about it. But in its tracks, one can hope that the view of community building will change, so that the home environment and the closeness of the home is a place where you can do more of your work in the future. The close local community offers workplaces, services and a small-scale business community. It is from this perspective that we want to see a new self-home movement emerge, where people with their own labour input, a small capital and a desire to own their housing can knock down their boposts. We would like to see a starting loan, which I know the government is preparing. But we want to complement it with a housing saving according to a German model that the state can support financially if it wants and that gives young people faster access to a cash contribution to a tenant-owner or a small house. Seven out of ten say they want to own their home. In the long term, provided that it succeeds in crossing the threshold, which is high, it is also economically beneficial to do so. We usually hear from the left side that the rental right is disadvantaged compared to the ownership of a dwelling. But if it were the case, more people would buy their home than they do today, and we would have had shorter queues for rents. More construction, but above all mobility and better use of existing older dwellings, is the solution to the housing shortage. Therefore, the reforms in the rental market are so important – that we get more efficient and fairer rental negotiations, free leasing in new production and a clearer reflection of the situation and demand also in the existing stock. Mr President, I would like to The removal of the interest on the deferred amount of the sale of the sale of dwellings is also an important measure to increase mobility so that, instead of staying in the villa, older people can buy something cheaper, less and more efficient, so that the young family can move in and take over. Precisely housing for the elderly is also something that the Center Party highlights in the claims here. In the report we can see a pattern in which the Center Party looks at those groups that currently find it most difficult to find good housing that suits their circumstances. Older people, young people and students as well as financially vulnerable and poor households cannot demand housing due to social problems, abuse or illness. The problems of overcrowding are difficult to repair afterwards. Children need safe environments to grow up in places where they are seen, supported, can do their homework and can stay. The Center Party has also paid attention to the importance of overcrowding for the spread of infection in society. And I note that it is only we who raise issues relating to planning for increased emergency preparedness. Mr President, I would like to I choose to endorse reservation 31, but of course I support all our reservations, including our specific opinion on promoting precisely business improvement disputes – BIDs – something that may be presented quite soon. Together with the Liberals, we also highlight the need to highlight segregated areas through measures that promote mixed tenure forms. Many use Gårdsten in Gothenburg as a shining example I do it again. We must give people the chance to succeed and, at the same time, make housing careers in a homely environment. Mr President, I would like to Another group needs extra attention for their need for housing, namely those women – often with children – who have been victims of domestic violence and need to quickly get away from the man who has abused them and who needs protection by moving far away, perhaps even to another municipality. Mr President, I would like to After all, it is developed building methods, smart material choices and a transition to more industrial thinking in the construction industry that results in reduced building costs. It is the Center Party's view that taxpayers' money should not primarily be used to subsidise housing that can be built with market principles and normal yield requirements. I have met public housing companies that can set a significantly lower rent than the one that applies to take part in the investment aid and who choose to do so because they prefer to build without being guided by requirements for certain apartment sizes that do not suit local demand. The principle should be that only those homes that otherwise had not come to but that there is a need for should be financially supported with some form of subsidy or credit. Mr President, I would like to We have reason to evaluate investment aid. And even though there is a requirement for housing to be offered to municipalities' social services, it will not be enough to give weak households, crowded and homeless shelters over their heads. It is good that the government is having housing social issues investigated, but the directives that Karolina Skog has been given are too narrow. I would like to conclude by wishing to see a factual and constructive discussion on how we can shape a social housing sector that is suitable for Swedish conditions, but which is influenced by good examples from neighbouring countries and with a break-up from the rise of housing policy and peoples' domestic illusions.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-747	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for your speech! It was beneficial, Madam President, that the Center Party raised the issue of beach protection as an important component of the possibility of building more and better in Sweden. The Center Party hit the big drum when the investigation was set up and said that this will really create better conditions in the countryside to build, live, live and work there. Center party leader Annie Lööf once said that the only thing Sweden needs is NATO. If you compare that statement with the location of the investigation, it is difficult, Madam President, to understand the Center Party's enthusiasm for the conclusions of the investigation. The study notes that in large parts of southern Sweden there is likely to be a stricter application of the beach protection. The southern part of Sweden appears geographically south of Sundsvall, that is, where 90 per cent of Sweden's people live. Is the Center Party satisfied with having had an investigation that will substantially complicate the existing system, which will make it more difficult in many places to build and which sets three almost incomprehensible criteria for building in a rural area? Among other things, it is necessary that there is no high demand on the ground, that there is a low degree of exploitation and that there is no violence against any of the interests of beach protection, that is to say, what is causing the problems today, Madam President. My question to Ola Johansson is simply: How can the Center Party market that it is satisfied with the investigation, which is so far from what it has said before that it is advocating?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-752	Madam President and Mr Bohlin! We can market this and talk well about the beach protection investigation because this is the best grant that has been made for a very long time to simplify and create greater opportunities for people to build and live close to the beach, if that's what you want. Beach protection has been investigated on many occasions, the last time we sat together in a government. Both Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and I can see that although we spoke well about the intentions with the so-called LIS areas, they did not become what we had hoped for. The beach protection investigation, carried out by Catharina Håkansson Boman, has to deal with the directives it has received, which are negotiated between the Center Party, the Government Parties and the Liberals. It is our view that the countryside has had its wishes well met. But we will see when the referrals begin to come into the investigation, which has just been referred, in what way Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's view that the whole of southern Sweden is exempted from the reliefs that have been proposed. For example, it is proposed that it will be free to build next to small waters, lakes less than 1 hectare and streams that are narrower than 2 meters. In my world, 2 meters is quite a lot, especially if you compare with what it has been like before when you have not even been able to get permission to build next to a dry ditch or a pond. I also see great hopes that when municipalities are given the opportunity to identify rural areas in their outline plans, those municipalities that want to build close to the shore will do so to a large extent. But let us wait and see how the bill is designed, what the consultation bodies say and how the law will be applied if it becomes a reality. I do not share Mr Bohlin's view.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-758	Madam President, I would like The obvious difference between me and Ola Johansson in this debate is that we Moderates have learned something from the two previously failed beach protection reforms, namely that practice is so strong in this context that it is very difficult to try to play with new exceptions within an existing system. The two beach protection reforms carried out by the Alliance were unsuccessful in the sense that they led to a stricter application of beach protection. And now the Center Party and the January Contracting Parties are making the same mistake one more time, because they compromise with parties that have diametrically opposed views on the issue. It compromises with a party that wants to strengthen beach protection rather than liberalise it. Madam President, I would like I have not said that the investigation claims that the protection of the beach will become stricter throughout southern Sweden. But it is written that in large parts of southern Sweden there is probably no room for more beach protection. The Centre Party's answer, Madam President, is that the victory gained in the directives and the conclusions of the investigation are that it will be free to build along the ditches. Of course, that is not what rural people want. What they want is of course that it is possible to take advantage of the comparative advantages of rural areas, namely the possibility of building in scenic areas. Even if a municipality points out rural areas, as mentioned by Ola Johansson here, it still has to meet the very strange criteria that there can only be limited demand. So the investigation says you can build where no one wants to build. It's strange, Ola Johansson.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-762	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin for his renewed concern for the implementation of centre policy! Low property values are something that I described in my speech as a problem for rural opportunities to build. Low property values mean no one wants to invest. It is precisely the low property values that the municipalities complain about. They ask us to facilitate beach protection so that attractive housing environments can create opportunities for investment. When investments come, there will be a collective settlement which will then be able to be completed within the framework of the rural areas that I believe will create these opportunities. It is gratifying that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin in his second reply modified what he has said about southern Sweden to talk about certain areas in southern Sweden. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin must surely agree with me that there are high-exploited coastal areas where the protection of the shore should continue to be strong. There may also be natural areas where there is reason not to allow construction due to biotopes, wildlife, plants or whatever it may be. I am not an expert in this area, but I am convinced that there are such places. The possibility for the public to visit beaches should also be exploited, but this does not preclude municipalities wishing to use the possibility of identifying rural areas. I am convinced that the vast majority of Halland's inland, the whole of Småland, large parts of Skåne, Blekinge and Kalmar counties and municipalities further up in the country will find these areas. The municipalities that want to build will want to take advantage of this opportunity. We're not gonna ignore ditches and streams. It has been a big problem for many who want to build both for business and housing.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-768	Madam President, I would like If there is one thing that we all agree on, it is that Sweden needs a new housing policy. We need a new housing policy worthy of the name – a housing policy that can meet the challenges we face in terms of housing shortages, housing segregation and climate change. We need a housing policy that can meet the challenges mentioned here earlier. This applies to women who are currently living in destructive conditions and who cannot move because there is no place to move to. We have increasing homelessness and overcrowding, families with children who are homeless and pensioners who have worked their whole lives but cannot afford to have a place to live. We have people who can't move to where the jobs or educations are. It is the result of the housing policy that is taking place today, and this must change. Long-term sustainable housing policy reforms are needed that take responsibility for building up housing shortages, tackling housing segregation and inequality, and reducing the climate impact of the housing sector. This requires a housing policy with higher ambitions where the state and municipalities take greater responsibility than they do today. I have always said that housing is a social right, and I believe that this must be made clear in Swedish housing policy. A national strategy is needed to ensure everyone's right to housing at an affordable cost. This was also mentioned by the UN rapporteur who worked on the housing issue when she visited Sweden. The strategy should form the basis for the government's overall housing policy. I hope that Märta Stenevi, the new Minister for Housing, will take the initiative in developing such a strategy. Madam President, I would like More housing must be built, but it must also be the right type of housing. Above all, there is a need for more rental apartments with reasonable rents that people can afford. In order to build these homes, different forms of support are needed, as well as clearer governance by the state. I therefore believe that the government should produce an action plan and a timetable for a more equal balance between rental and tenant-ownership. There are a small number of actors in the Swedish housing market, Madam President, which means, on the one hand, difficulties for smaller operators and, on the other hand, high profit margins that push both house prices and rents upwards. It is clear that measures are needed to encourage construction companies to increase productivity. Therefore, there is a need for a state-owned construction company that is business-driven but with moderate yield requirements. A state-owned construction company would mean better political governance and secure the long-term sustainability of community building. The government should therefore investigate how a public utility housing company with the task of building apartments – mainly rental apartments – which all should be able to afford to request can be designed. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, municipalities have a central role in housing supply, but I believe that there is a need for a clearer national responsibility for housing supply. The state must play a greater role. Delegation Bostad in 2030 has developed a new, knowledge-based housing policy on behalf of the Tenant Association. The delegation proposes a division of roles that clarifies requirements and responsibilities for housing supply at national, regional and local level. In order to clarify that the state is ultimately responsible for the housing supply, the delegation proposes that the government submit a letter to the Riksdag annually setting out the Government's national housing plan. In the event of an imbalance between supply, demand and needs, the Government is proposed to present an action plan. This is a good proposal which I think the government should take the initiative to implement. Madam President, I would like Too many landlords today impose unjustifiably high income requirements on new tenants, which leads to an increase in housing segregation and makes it more difficult for many to get a first-hand contract. The guidance developed by Sweden's Public Benefits and Property Owners is not sufficient for landlords to lower the requirements for new tenants. Instead, the government should come back with legislative proposals that mean that landlords, both private and public, should not be able to impose excessive income requirements that exclude large groups of people when renting housing. Madam President, I would like Let me talk about the public housing companies. Public utility housing companies currently own more than 827 400 apartments. Public utility has long held a special position in the Swedish housing market and has been an important part of the welfare society for many years. Public utility is shared by citizens and has the task of providing sustainable and affordable housing for all. In my opinion, a strong public good is crucial for a social housing policy and for managing the housing supply that is needed today. Madam President, I would like During the alliance government, the conditions for general interest were changed, among other things, by the introduction of the Law on Public utility housing companies. The Act, which became applicable in 2011, requires municipal housing companies to operate in accordance with commercial principles. At the same time, the companies have the task of promoting housing supply. That does not make sense, Madam President. The requirement that the companies operate in accordance with commercial principles has had serious consequences for the housing of the public utility. Market demand for returns means that plans for new production are not implemented. The return requirements also mean that housing companies cannot carry out the necessary renovations of deprived million programme properties without increasing rents. We'll see what happens to renovation. Madam President, I would like I believe that public utility housing companies should be run on the basis of social benefit and social responsibility objectives, not on the basis of market principles and return requirements. I therefore believe that the requirement that companies operate in accordance with commercial principles should be removed. Madam President, I would like We must safeguard the role and future of the common good. In order to develop the common good, I propose a number of measures. In order to contribute to good and cheap construction of rental apartments, there must be at least one public housing company in each municipality. Madam President, I would like In order to ensure that there is a sufficient proportion of public housing at both regional and national level, I propose introducing a procedure requiring permission from the County Administrative Board for the sale of dwellings owned by municipal housing companies. The Act on Public utility housing companies contains provisions limiting the possibility of carrying out value transfers from housing companies to municipalities. I welcome the Equality Commission's proposal to revise the provisions on transfers of value in the law. The Government should urgently initiate such a review, in particular in view of the fact that Boverket's recent compilation of the value transfers of public utility housing companies shows that the amounts of unlawful value transfers have increased. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that I support all the reservations of the Left Party. However, I would only like to endorse reservation 4 in the report.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-788	Madam President, I would like My thought was not that I would ask for a line on Momodou Malcolm Jallow, but when I heard Momodou talk about removing the rule that the commons should be run according to business principles, I actually bounced to a little bit. The Swedish commons were notified to the EU by Fastighetsägarearna, and Sweden was forced to comply with the judgment that means that one must not have unlawful state aid for public activities, as the Swedish commons were perceived as. There are many countries in Europe that have housing companies that are allowed to receive public support. These housing companies are mainly engaged in social housing. Should I take Momodou Malcolm Jallow's speech here as meaning that he wants to transform Sweden's commons into a number of municipal-owned companies dedicated to renting out social housing?
i-LyzQWopg1XnUtLAcd7Txzj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola, for the question! I was very clear in my speech: the common good is owned jointly by the citizens. It cannot be reasonable to have unreasonable yield requirements. This does not go with the idea of having a common good that has a housing supply requirement so that ordinary people who do not have a high income can have a place to live. If profits and returns are required in order to be able to conduct this activity in accordance with the Commercial Principles Act, it becomes more difficult for the public good to conduct the business on the basis of the foundation on which the common good was built. There are some complexities that come from the EU and the EU acquis. Nevertheless, I think it is very important to go back to the idea of commons, or else you lose the whole purpose of it. We in the Left Party believe that it is very important for the common good to protect the public's need for housing. Demand should not be used, but needs should be used. That is what is essential in terms of public good, and we certainly support that.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-795	Madam President, I would like I understand Momodou Malcolm Jallow's argumentation, because in the world of the Left Party you should not have any profitability at all. And if this is the case, the state or municipalities should take it in as soon as possible to use it to pay for example their public housing company to build housing. Momodou Malcolm Jallow minimizes EU state aid rules and says that he knows that there are some problems with the EU but – and he is back again. Momodou Malcolm Jallow must relate to the EU's state aid rules and the fact that Sweden's public utility was notified by the Property Owners in order to violate them and that it had consequences for Sweden's public utility that Momodou Malcolm Jallow may not like but exists. If Momodou Malcolm Jallow ignores this, the listeners here should be alerted to the fact that Momodou Malcolm Jallow does not care about the conditions under which Sweden's public services work, or those who listen here will understand that what Momodou Malcolm Jallow intends to do with Sweden's public service to pass the EU's state aid rules is to transform the whole public good into a number of companies that work with social housing. What does Momodou Malcolm Jallow think is to start with, to influence the EU or to change the commons into social housing companies?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-799	Madam President, I would like I believe that public utility housing companies should be run on the basis of social benefits and social responsibility objectives and not on the basis of market principles and return requirements. It's very clear what I mean. In my speech, I mentioned precisely the transfers of value that are taking place. You have a profit, and you get a profit. Instead of using that money to build more rental apartments, they are used to plug holes elsewhere in the business. It's taxpayers' money. They should be used in a good way. There's a housing shortage in this country. Instead of using this money to build more homes, you do something completely different. Is it a good use of taxpayers' money? I do not think so. There have been proposals to review the very legislation that you introduced when we had a bourgeois government. I think it is important that we distinguish between what I say and what the European Union has said. I understand that the European Union has these rules and does not trivialise it. And I can assure you that we are doing everything we can to influence the rules. However, when we take taxpayers' money and say that we should build housing that people can afford, it is very important that we use the money for this very thing. Today, however, we know that money is often not used to benefit people who need housing by building more rental apartments that people can afford, but it is used for something else. That is why I stress the importance of public good being conducted on the basis of objectives, social benefits and social responsibility, nothing else.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-803	Madam President, I would like Sweden is facing major problems in the housing market. Or there are major problems that may well be a little defensive, because we all know that we have major problems with the housing market. The main problem is that we build far too little, but that is not the only problem. The prices in production, as well as in the final price for the customer, apply not only to the production of small-scale houses but also to multi-detached dwellings. If you enjoy looking at statistics, such as Swedish Brokerage Statistics, you can see that during the last twelve months, for example, house prices in Ulricehamn municipality have increased by 39 per cent. You are probably happy if you have a house in Ulricehamn, but it will be very difficult to get into the housing market. One of the major problems we have is the appearance of prices, which means that those outside the housing market will find it even more difficult to enter the housing market if we do nothing about it. We have a poor track of both planning and construction based on the need and outcome. I believe that we have a perspective in which we as politicians decide how and in what form citizens will live in the future. We guide citizens to future housing through financial incentives and governance of the form of employment that is being built, regardless of how citizens want to live. The free will to live in a private villa is a mirage for many with rising prices, municipal planning and credit restrictions that mountains to climb to succeed. Added to this is the repeated desire of the Social Democrats to introduce property tax, and they would prefer to do so together with the other three left parties in the Swedish Parliament. I believe that more housing needs to be built in Sweden, and this applies to both rentals, flats and owner-occupied apartments, but also to villas. Seven out of ten people want to live in their own property. Basic structural problems in the Swedish housing market mean that the supply of housing is below demand. In the area of housing policy, the most priority should therefore be to address the barriers to housing, such as complicated and time-consuming planning processes, difficult-to-understand noise regulations and building regulations. The time from idea to finished living must be shortened if we want to do something about the problem. And the process must be less costly and simplified compared to today. The planning of a society should be based on man's own needs for small, close communities and how they can be promoted, how security can be promoted and economic stability encouraged over time. That is why we Christian Democrats are trying to highlight the concept of garden cities. These grew in cities during the early 20th century to combat the severe housing shortage during the end of the 19th century. The houses that were built then came to be associated with social sustainability and good growing conditions. In order to promote the emergence of a number of new garden cities in places that can reasonably be linked to functioning infrastructure routes, the state needs to be an active party. New similar residential areas should be created by the government commissioning the county boards to identify new areas where completely new neighborhoods can be built, or garden cities if you want to call them that. These areas can then be built with primarily self-owned dwellings in the form of detached houses and terraced houses. I think it should be a priority for the government to give this task to the county boards and to try to formulate it in a good way. We must also give municipalities the opportunity to provide incentives in order to speed up the number of plans that will be completed. If you ask the municipalities why they build so few villas or houses, they say that it is not because you dislike them, but because other plans are given higher priority. Then the very reason must be that we ensure that the municipalities can make more plans over a year. That is why, as a state, we should in some way give priority and encourage the municipalities to create more plans over a year. In rural and small settlements, production costs are often higher than the market value of the dwelling when the dwelling is completed. This means that housing companies based in rural areas are often forced to make a write-down of the value of the property once the building is completed. This too often means that construction does not happen, which does not promote the goal of building more homes. We have heard earlier today that housing shortages are not a major problem, but exist throughout the country. For many housing companies it is not profitable to build housing on markets where market prices are low. The Christian Democrats believe that the rules on depreciation need to be amended and made more flexible. For example, longer depreciation periods should be allowed for newly produced dwellings on markets with low market values. We are proposing a write-off period of seven years, and we are prepared to discuss it with the parties that wish to do so. The three proposals I have now put forward I think will be able to help. Together with start-up loans, housing savings and a review of credit restrictions, they are a good start to get Sweden's housing policy in the right direction. I am convinced that we all want more to be built, and we can probably find more measures together. But the will must be there, and I do not believe that the government and the three left-wing parties have the will that is needed. I request your approval for reservation number 5.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-818	Madam President, I would like Maybe this doesn't have to be such a long line shift. I did not really hear what Larry Söder said, but he mentioned the property tax and indicated that there are parties that have been unclear on this issue. I don't understand what Larry Söder has got it from, because we in the Center Party have always been clear that we have no plans whatsoever to reintroduce the property tax – if that's what Larry Söder says. We will not be contributing to the reintroduction of property tax. The one that existed before was very badly liked, and we and the Christian Democrats were involved in removing it. We agree that a reinstated property tax would be a tax increase that would hit ordinary people with ordinary incomes. Such a measure would neither stimulate rural areas nor reduce the gaps between urban and rural areas. I just want to be very clear about this so Larry Söder isn't going out with untruths in the future. I'd like to know what he got from this.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-822	Madam President, I would like If you are serious about not introducing a property tax, you should not support a Social Democratic Prime Minister, as the Center Party does. That is my opinion. Just as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin explained in the speaker's chair, the Social Democrats seem to determine the order of trains and what is being implemented in housing policy, regardless of what the Center Party says. This is how they support a Social Democratic Prime Minister in the 2022 elections, and they also support the introduction of property tax, as the Social Democrats go to their congress. If you do not want property tax, you are welcome to support the bourgeois prime minister candidate Ulf Kristersson.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-825	Madam President, I would like If you, like Larry Söder, want to involve a number of officials from the Swedish Democrats in the Government Office, you do not know what kind of tax, housing policy or society you get.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-826	Madam President, I would like I only note the fact, and that is that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been governing the Government Office for seven years and that we do not see any development in housing policy. The Center Party supports a government that does not move housing policy forward, and you have to go on point after point. One can present a January agreement that is not implemented, but it is not practical policy. Practical policy means that the Government Office is in charge of housing policy, and if you support the Prime Minister's candidate, you have to take a beautiful hand and say: Yes, we want to introduce a property tax.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-828	Madam President, I would like A dwelling is much more than just a place to live. It is a basic security that gives people freedom to develop. Too many people are currently constrained by a malfunctioning housing market. The housing shortage is great. Young people are forced to stay at home and are not allowed to experience the freedom of moving to their very own home. The elderly still live in the villa, although they want to move to something smaller and simpler, and families with children live cramped to get the economy together. The housing market needs to change in many areas in order to become more efficient so that supply meets demand. More people need to have the opportunity to own their homes, move chains need to be facilitated and more housing needs to be built. Madam President, I would like However, housing policy is far from just about a functioning housing market and more housing is being built. It is also about children's right to grow up in a safe and pleasant area. It is about children's right to have high ambitions and faith in the future. It is also about us all being able to be proud of the area in which we live. Unfortunately, today we have too many residential areas where unemployment is high, school results are low and many feel excluded. Often these areas are characterised by a large proportion of relatively cheap rentals. Those who make a job career cannot make a housing career and live on, but move on to buy a home even though they might have been happy to stay. New people move in. Students in school start every semester with new friends in the class while former friends have moved. The networks that build a stable area, such as knowing your neighbours, are more difficult to build and maintain. In order to create long-term stable residential areas, there needs to be a variety of housing for all stages of life and for people's different economic conditions during these stages. In many of the vulnerable areas that exist in Sweden today, it does not look like this. Rents often dominate here. Therefore, a specific conversion strategy is needed to enable those who want to own their residents to remain. Rents as well as apartments and owner-occupied apartments are needed, and residential areas with a mix of tenure forms create the best opportunities for residents to choose a suitable form of housing. One step along the way is to give municipalities the opportunity to empower their housing companies to become building operators in projects to build new residential properties and owner-occupied apartments in vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like In many of our vulnerable areas, overcrowding is a widespread problem. It has major social consequences, and it is particularly serious when children grow up under such conditions. Active work is needed here with increased collaboration between municipalities and state authorities. National work against extreme overcrowding in vulnerable areas can improve social conditions. We believe that a survey of overcrowding is needed, and appropriate efforts to combat overcrowding need to be investigated. Madam President, I would like In many other countries, there is legislation in place to facilitate this type of cooperation. They are often called BID, Business Improvement District. The legislation in these cases regulates forms and responsibilities and makes it easier to get started and cooperate. The BID can be said to act as an intermediary between economic union and unity, and the common task is therefore to contribute to the development of the area in the direction indicated by the objective of activity. We have long advocated the benefits of the BID model and called for efforts to facilitate the creation of such cooperation. We therefore welcome the fact that, thanks to our cooperation within the January agreement, Boverket has been tasked with reviewing existing legislation and identifying possible obstacles to property owners' ability to influence the security and security of an area as well as the opportunities for residents to influence the development of the area. Madam President, I would like Finally, there is today a great need for emergency apartments and shelters for victims of violence and threats. We believe that municipalities' responsibility to ensure that there are on-call apartments and shelters needs to be clarified. This could be done by strengthening the Housing Responsibility Act. Today, municipalities are required to establish guidelines for housing supply each term of office. These shall be based on an analysis of demographic developments, demand for housing, housing needs for specific groups and market conditions. The law should be amended in such a way as to make it clear that municipalities should also analyse the need for temporary accommodation for victims of violence and their relatives. Since the Housing Supply Act also contains provisions on the County Administrative Board's responsibility to facilitate coordination between municipalities, a change of legislation can also create good conditions for the analysis of the need for emergency apartments and sheltered housing to be made more cross-municipal. Sometimes you need to leave the municipality in which you live to get a safe place to live. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time we only ask for reservation 17, which we have together with the Center Party, concerning mixed living forms and reduced segregation.
i-J74241peZX6ZGU1tegw849	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Danielsson, for your speech. In many of your reservations, both in your own but also those that you have with the Center Party, you paint a picture of the problem of segregation that focuses unilaterally on socio-economically weak areas, especially when you talk about mixed living forms. Delmos, the Delegation against segregation, has clearly stated that today's one-sided focus on residential areas with socio-economic challenges is a problem. It does not look at a whole but focuses on a certain part of society and selects precisely reform ideas and initiatives in these areas. It leads to stigmatization and so on. Often when you talk about mixed living forms, you talk about it only when it comes to socially vulnerable areas and not just well-to-do villa carpets. Do Malin Danielsson and the Liberals not think that segregation is a phenomenon to which both sides contribute? The fact that there are villa rugs where there are only wealthy people, flats and villas also contributes to segregation. Why don't we talk about mixed tenure forms in those areas as well, instead of focusing on just socially vulnerable areas?
i-5m1YG7TMFDtkVYpsKHPFRd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow! I think it's important to have mixed living forms in all our residential areas. If you live in a residential area and divorce, you can usually move far if you can't afford to buy two houses in the residential area. At times one mate remains, while children are allowed to wander between different neighborhoods in order, for example, to come to school. The reason we focus a lot on vulnerable areas is that there are problems in vulnerable areas that we need to address. You can look at schools at the moment. In the municipality that I myself come from and where I have been responsible for the school question we quickly saw that it doesn't matter how much money we pump into school and how much good things we try to do for the school if just a couple of the set of students you have in preschool class are left in grade nine. Most of them have moved, and new students have come in all the time. This does not create the stability needed in school to give students a good chance of going on in life. We can access this if there are forms of housing in the affected areas that mean that you can stay. When we talk to people who live in vulnerable areas today, most people are very happy with their area and want to stay. But when you get a little more money or a little bigger family and want to move to something bigger, both larger housing and owned housing are missing. If you don't want to stay in a too crowded apartment, you have to move out of the area. That is the problem we want to overcome.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-849	Madam President, I would like I understand that this is what the Liberals and the Center Party are focusing on. But that is what Delmos also claims to be problematic. If you want to get rid of segregation, you have to work on building mixed living forms in all areas instead of focusing on only socially vulnerable areas. It contributes to stigmatization. That is what research and Delmos have come up with. You have raised a problem formulation, Malin Danielsson, where you claim, for example, that tenants have little responsibility for the physical environment and common spaces. You say that the almost perfect dominance of rental rights in areas where Swedes with a foreign background dominate and the total dominance of tenant-ownership in other areas is extremely problematic. It's problematic when you attack segregation like that. We never see any concrete proposals showing that you would like to see a more mixed living in the country's more prosperous areas. Every time you talk about this very thing, you talk about it as long as we're going to work for mixed tenure forms in alienation areas. It's going to be very wrong. It's gonna be wrong. It is important that we look at both sides. In Limhamn, Malmö, the municipal housing company started to build rental rights. Then we were told by quite a few that there was chaos. Those who own villas and houses began to say: The value of our houses begins to go down. It affects the value of our houses. That's why we don't want those people here. We cannot have such a society. We will be able to build mixed living forms in all areas. Therefore, I wonder: when will the Liberals seriously take a holistic approach to housing policy measures to reduce segregation in society?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-854	I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President and are not using you or you.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-855	Madam President, I would like If Momodou Malcolm Jallow had listened carefully to what I said, he would have heard that I was talking about how we want mixed neighborhoods everywhere. We are not saying that it must only be in a particular area as it should be mixed. Well-functioning residential areas are often mixed, and there is an opportunity to change homes at different stages of life based on the needs that arise. It becomes problematic when there is a large concentration of rental apartments. It is not because of the people who live there, but because of the form of living itself. A lot of people regard the rental right as a temporary residence. Surveys show that the vast majority strive for a owned dwelling. If you live temporarily, you may not take the time needed to get to know your neighbors, to get involved in your neighbourhood and to build up the networks that create stability and security in an area. That is why we are focusing on those areas. It's about that. It's about the children's perspective. Should we let children live in those areas and perhaps not feel safe and not reach the school results that every kid should get? That's why we have to deal with the problem there. We have absolutely nothing against building mixed up in all parts of society. We think it's good.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-859	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Civil Liberties proposes that the Parliament rejects the approximately 120 motions from the general exercise period that came in 2020 in the area of housing policy, mainly on the grounds that work is already ongoing on several of the issues raised in the motions. I can see that much is going on and that very many homes are still being built. I will come back to that. But I can also say that homelessness is increasing in our country, and I still think it is not worthy of a country like Sweden not to be able to offer all our citizens a safe home. Families with children should not risk being evicted or having to move around between different temporary housing solutions. Children's ability to cope with school and have a safe upbringing is high on my and the Green Party's agenda. These include measures to improve the functioning of the housing market, competition and housing construction, financing of housing construction, housing responsibility of municipalities, public housing companies, housing forms, overcrowding and environmentally friendly and sustainable construction. I support the report as a whole and therefore call for all motions to be rejected. Madam President, I would like We need a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable housing policy. The construction industry currently accounts for more than a fifth of Sweden's total climate impact, and only domestic emissions are included. Today we have the knowledge to build climate smart. We can build both passive houses and plus houses, while the energy consumption to heat up all our existing buildings is very large. I am therefore pleased to note that the government is investing money in the state budget in measures to reduce energy consumption in our existing houses. The support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-detached buildings and outdoor environments will be an extremely important tool for reducing energy consumption in our existing buildings. For the sake of both the planet and future generations, I am pleased that we are now making these efforts. Madam President, I would like Where, by what and how we build our houses will have a major impact on our environment for many generations to come. What we are building today will also work well in 100 years' time, and that means that we are planning right from the start. We need a sustainable housing policy that reduces both environmental and climate impacts. In fact, housing is still record high. Boverket's forecast for this year is that we will start about 52,000 new homes. The pace of construction is falling, which worries me. However, I can still see that, in the former days of the Alliance, an average of 28 000 homes were built per year. Construction is still record high. But we need to build even more because there are still housing shortages in many parts of our country. In particular, there is a lack of housing available to people with lower incomes. The housing shortage affects not only those who do not get a home but actually the entire development of society. The housing shortage is reduced by building more housing, increasing mobility in the housing market and making more efficient use of the existing housing stock. It also needs to be easier to rent out part of your dwelling. The Green Party wants to see a favourable housing saving, start-up loan, which we are now investigating, increased housing allowance and housing supplement as well as support for municipalities to contribute to a safer housing market. Sweden continues to need a green and ambitious housing policy that will build more climate-smart housing for all in society. There is a need for a policy that steers towards a continuously high level of housing construction regardless of the economic situation in Sweden and regardless of where the need is in the country. Madam President, I would like We need a sustainable housing policy. Finally, I would like to talk about the people. The debate on housing policy is all too often about the number of homes built or the number of homes missing and far too little about the people who are actually going to live in the homes or who do not have a safe home. We don't know exactly how many homeless people there are in Sweden today, but the last time we measured, in 2017, there were 33 000 homeless people in Sweden, and we get signals that the figure is even higher today. It is a political failure for which many governments back in time bear responsibility. I am not here to point out whose fault it is; I want to see political solutions forward. Much has been built in recent years, and we are building more homes. Yet there is a lack of housing. The question we have to ask ourselves, Madam President, is: for whom are we building? I and the Green Party share the view of the City Mission that a national homelessness strategy is needed, and I hope that we will have one in place in this House during this parliamentary term. I note that the Minister of Social Affairs has given such a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare, and I hope that we will see measures in this area soon. Karolina Forest's study on socially sustainable housing supply, which will help more people enter the housing market, will also be very important in order to find solutions for the future.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-878	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Swedish housing policy when we consider the CU9 report of the Committee on Civil Liberties. Allow me first of all to support the proposal in the report. But, Madam President, let me now start in another, a little more fundamental political position for us Social Democrats, namely the Swedish welfare model. Social democracy wants to shape a society based on the ideals of democracy and the equal value and right of all people. Free and equal people in a society of solidarity are the aims of democratic socialism. It is against that destination that our aspirations are aimed at, regardless of the political area and regardless of the majority conditions in this House during a certain term of office. This term of office has the potential to move towards a society of solidarity in which people are free and equal is limited by the fact that 60% of the Members of this House are politically on the right of the Social Democrats. After all, January cooperation and compromises between the government and the middle parties have created the conditions for us Social Democrats to get through big and important investments in not least welfare and security. However, we Social Democrats believe that it takes a great deal more to achieve equality, freedom and solidarity in our country. Today, the Swedish welfare model is based on three legs. The first is a labour market for transition that clearly rests on the stick of your duty. All people who can work should work – duty. The labour market and society should be designed to support the individual in accordance with the destinies and self-help. This requires coordinated wage formation and support in transition, an active labour market policy and a well-functioning unemployment insurance that provides security in transition. The second leg, Madam President, is the welfare policy with a welfare model based on general welfare services according to each one according to his/her ability, for each as needed, but also on general social transfers that promote precisely work and income security. The third leg is an economic policy based on stability, transparency and competition. Madam President, I would like I would like to see a fourth leg added to the model, namely housing policy – a general housing policy based on the principle that everyone has the right to live well at a reasonable cost and that supports high mobility in the labour market. I know that many outside this House follow today's debate. I'm thinking of all of you watching TV and webcasting. Those of you who are about to leave home looking for your first residence. Those of you who have recently found love and seek a common home. Those of you who have grown in the family and wish for a larger accommodation. Those of you who have decided to separate and each seek a new place to live. Those of you who sit in a large house with strayed children and may wish to move to a smaller apartment. I would like to say to all of you that this is exactly what housing policy is. They're people of flesh and blood. It's the different stages of life. These are clear needs and dreams of the future. I hope that today's debate will help show how we are trying to meet the requirements that exist among you for a well-functioning, fair and social housing policy. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to say that everyone in and outside the Chamber can be sure that we Social Democrats will go to elections to strengthen the Swedish model in all these parts in order to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. Turning back to the report we are debating today, the reader of the proposals can make two points in each case. The first is that the opposition's proposals on what needs to be done for a better functioning housing market are sprawling. There is no single political alternative to government housing policy. In the debate on housing policy, one can sometimes be led by the harsh rhetoric to think otherwise. The second thing to note, based on the many proposals made by all parties, is that we agree that the situation in today's housing market continues to leave much to be desired. I am proud of the reforms that the government has implemented, such as the state investment aid for building sustainable rentals with reasonable rents. This has meant that more than 28 000 new rental apartments built with state aid were already in place before the reform that took place under the January agreement. These will therefore be added to all the new apartments created and added with the reformed support. Analysis has shown that mobility in the housing market has benefited from investment support, in a positive way. Many of these apartments have been rented out to people who are already established on the housing market and who have relatively good incomes. This in turn, Madam President, has meant that more apartments in the older population have become available and available to those with slightly lower incomes, so that they have been able to obtain housing at a reasonable cost. This is a shining example of a general housing policy. Working migratory chains are necessary if we are to be able to live up to the principle that everyone has the right to live well at a reasonable cost. Everyone in this House knows that new production will never be cheap, even if it can be made affordable with support. It is in the older population that the cheap apartments exist, and here the government's policy does just that: improved mobility. But everything is far from good in the housing market. Although the pace of construction today remains at very high levels and, in fact, is increasing again, we are not up to the pace needed to address the housing shortage. However, the government is doing much to create more tools for an active and general housing policy. For example, the report A socially sustainable housing supply, the Construction Act investigation, the study Coordination for residential building and an investigation on starting loans for first-time buyers. These four investigations are still ongoing but will be finalized in March, May and November this year. Several studies with bearings in the field of housing policy have already been completed and are being prepared in the Government Office. This applies, for example, to the Equality Commission, the Committee for Modernisation of Construction Rules, the Construction Law Investigation and the Overview Plan Investigation. In addition, the government has given a number of assignments to Boverket. This concerns the task of reviewing the construction and construction rules, the task of investigating the conditions for the conversion of premises into housing and the task of analysing risks of discrimination and barriers to establishment in the housing market. As the President hears, housing policy is a priority area for the government. There is a great deal of work going on in the area of housing policy, and this work is largely in line with what is being asked for in the motions we are discussing today. Perhaps someone would say that the opposition is breaking open doors forcefully. I am pleased to note, Madam President, that the opposition is in most cases in full agreement with the government on what needs to be done to increase the pace of construction and achieve a better situation in the Swedish housing market.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-897	Madam President, I would like We have heard from the government that it will initiate an investigation into BID collaboration in order to enable property owners to collaborate well and efficiently with other actors in society to create security in residential areas. Hopefully there will be good proposals. The Swedish Democrats support this. We've talked about it before, and we're happy to see it. The Swedish Democrats have also discussed the issue of spatial planning in existing residential areas and having a national action plan that municipalities should be able to act on in order to create better conditions for greater security in society and in residential areas. We have also proposed security planning in the urban planning process, which means involving more parties in society when planning residential areas. This will enable us to create good conditions at the start to make residential areas safe so that we do not find ourselves again in a situation such as we see in many of the vulnerable areas that were built during the days of the million-dollar programme. My question to Joakim Järrebring is simply whether the government will also take in the proposals that the Swedish Democrats have highlighted and involve them in the investigation in order to create a better whole when it comes to creating safe residential areas in Sweden.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-901	Madam President, I would like I thank Roger Hedlund for the question. What the government is going to do, I can't answer. However, I agree with the picture that we need a broader perspective politically. BID collaboration and the reforms that are to come into place will hopefully lead to something positive, i.e. site development with the focus that Roger Hedlund mentions. How do we develop areas so that they are safe and secure, so that people are happy and well? In this part we agree with the need to work with site development in several different ways, although it is currently BID that is included in the January agreement. There are sharp proposals on the way. While we are standing here, I did not have the opportunity to ask for a reply to Roger Hedlund's speech. I bounced to something Roger Hedlund said, namely that there would be a strong link between immigration and low housing. I don't really understand how Roger Hedlund gets it together. Roger Hedlund is happy to develop the link between immigration and low housing.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-904	Madam President, I would like I do not really know what Joakim Järrebring refers to, but what I meant in my speech is that high migration to Sweden combined with low housing construction obviously does not improve the situation in the housing market. If we are to regain a balance and give people the opportunity to have their own housing, migration needs to be limited and construction increased. That is what I mean and nothing else, even if something has been understood otherwise. Thank you for your answer on BID cooperation. We look forward to an investigation that can really affect the security of residential areas. However, it is sad that we have been told, as we can interpret it as, that we are not prepared to investigate more security efforts in residential areas in addition to BID collaboration. There are so many other important areas to work with to create security, but you choose to narrow the investigation. I am the first to regret that we see this on the part of the government. It is not possible to wait to investigate more important areas in order to provide security in residential areas. There is a need for better spatial planning of the residential areas that we see today to be unsafe. A national action plan is needed so that municipalities can have good and effective tools to combat insecurity. And in future residential areas it should not be re-built in unsafe areas in the way we have seen in the vulnerable areas around Sweden today. I regret that the investigation is no bigger than that, and I hope that Joakim Järbring can take this along and try to influence the government on this issue because we cannot wait for the investigations.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-908	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to point out that a lot of financial efforts are being made to create the conditions for increased security with the help of renovation support and site development. There is a comprehensive policy in this area. I share the view that we need to look at how we can work with site development in the long term with more than what is on the way now with BID collaboration.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-910	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd talk about the Equality Commission. The Social Democratic Government says that entry for more people into the housing market is a central and priority challenge and that it wants to break the growing housing segregation. That's good. The Government has set up the inquiry A socially sustainable housing supply to better investigate the conditions for a socially sustainable housing supply, which I also think is good. This welcomes the Left Party. But the investigation focuses on investigating issues that have not already been investigated. By this I mean that the Equality Commission has produced its report A common concern, and that is where housing policy plays an important role. The mandate has included proposing measures that can compensate for differences in growing up conditions, education and working conditions in residential areas. In the problem description, they highlight a large shortage of cheap rental apartments in a number of municipalities, mainly in the metropolitan regions, and how this shortage affects the labour market, the possibility of education and so on. The Commission has also put forward proposals for measures, namely that the State must take greater financial responsibility, that the level of investment support for rental and student housing should be increased and that a state top loan should be offered to construction operators. These are proposals that the Left Party has put forward and discussed. If there are such good proposals from the Equality Commission, what do the Social Democrats intend to do with the proposals? Do we agree that these proposals are needed? Will the proposals be supported? What does Joakim Järrebring think?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-914	Madam President, I would like I thank Momodou Jallow for the questions. I give the same answer as I did last time, namely that I cannot answer what the government intends to do with the investigations. On the other hand, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I can say that we welcome the proposals that have come from the Equality Commission and that we are continuing to work with them within the framework of the cooperation we have during this term of office. If it were the case that we would have the opportunity to continue to govern Sweden's next term of office, regardless of how such a government collaboration would look, it is not unthinkable but rather likely that there will be more reforms in this area to create a more equal and safer Sweden.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-916	Madam President, I would like Do I understand Joakim Järrebring correctly when I say that the Social Democrats will implement the proposals put forward by the Equality Commission, that is to say, that the state takes greater financial responsibility, that the level of investment support for rental housing and student housing is significantly increased – that you invest for real – but above all that the proposal on top government loans is being implemented? That is a question that I put to the Minister for Housing, and the Minister for Housing could not give me an answer. It would therefore be good if Joakim Järrebring could clarify to the public, to all voters, to the Swedish people, whether the proposals put forward by the Equality Commission will be implemented after the next elections.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-917	Madam President, I would like Momodou Jallow is well aware that decisions on political parties are taken in their highest decision-making bodies, not by an individual Member of this House. I don't have a spåkula, and I don't know what decisions will be made at our party congress. How Momodou Jallow chooses to interpret me I cannot control, but what I said and what I meant is that we think many of the proposals contained in the Equality Commission's report are good. I have no spåkula to answer the question of what proposals we might proceed with. The Member will have to wait until the Party Congress has made its decisions on the politics of the Social Democrats in the future.
i-QDsq4PBwyo5CrecXVLCUoe	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties is also debating a general exercise report on real estate law. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 12 by S, V and MP and, in general, of the proposal contained in the CU report11. The last time we debated property law, much of the discussion revolved around Lantmäteriet's operations, efficiency, quality and legal certainty. It's no wonder. Lantmäteriet is a key player for a functioning property law. We are pleased to note that the provision of skills, not least through further training in our own activities, has worked well. From 2019 we can also welcomely see that the processing time has been more efficient in terms of public service and infrastructure. The report also raises several other issues. For example, an announcement is proposed to the government that also concerns Lantmäteriet's activities. It is about making geodata available to authorities and the public. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are opposed to the announcement, but it is not because we have any divergent perception of the social benefits that come from making open geodata available to the authorities and the public. On the contrary, we welcome the mission that Lantmäteriet already has from the government to coordinate the geodata area nationally. And, Madam President, Sweden is now building an infrastructure through Lantmäteriet to make geodata available. Lantmäteriet has a driving role in prioritising, initiating and leading the work on building and managing the infrastructure. This includes providing advice and support to information-responsible organisations – those who, under the law and the regulation on spatial environmental information, are obliged to make their information available. Lantmäteriet now operates the Geodata Portal, where open geodata is made available. In addition, they manage the collaborative platform called Geodata Collaboration. Within the framework of Geodata collaboration, agreements can be signed to access charged geodata from Lantmäteriet, Sjöfartsverket and Sweden's geological survey, SGU. The geodata infrastructure shall make it as easy as possible for as many people as possible to find and use geodata. The infrastructure provides a common way of organising, building up and managing, making available and facilitating the use of geodata. It is based on broad cooperation involving more organisations and more data sets and services than those covered by the INSPIRE Directive. Co-ordination responsibility means that Lantmäteriet develops and manages the national infrastructure for geodata together with municipalities, county boards, other authorities and organisations. The ambition in the notice is clearly aimed at making available the geodata currently funded under geodata collaboration. That is why, Madam President, I would like to reiterate that we Social Democrats see the social benefits of making more geodata available as open and free of charge to the user. As I have explained, intensive work is already under way to digitise the entire community building process. However, since the issue of making geodata available free of charge, which is currently toll-financed, will inevitably land as a cost item in the state budget, we believe that this issue must be dealt with within the framework of a coherent budgetary process. There is therefore no need for an announcement.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-927	Madam President, I would like I mentioned at the beginning of my previous speech, on the report CU9 Housing Policy, that many of the reports we are discussing in the Committee on Civil Liberties are about housing policy in various forms. Of course, this is also such a piece of the puzzle. The CU11 Real estate report also deals to some extent with housing policy, because without a functioning real estate law it is simply difficult to build anything. What we can see today is that, on average, the processing time for a survey is well over a year. It is, of course, a totally unacceptable order, but this has been the case for a long time. What is the consequence of this? The ultimate consequence is that in many cases it is very difficult for landowners to use their property rights, to establish a property division, to start a new construction or whatever it may be that requires some type of surveying. But of course it is also a problem in larger community-building processes. It puts restraint on much of the development of society. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation number 13. It is about the time for us to make a thorough review of Lantmäteriet and its operation because Lantmäteriet of today simply does not work. We have 39 municipal surveying authorities, but also a central authority that is responsible for the whole of this, and as things stand today it does not work. One of the pieces of the puzzle that we think is important is to open up for other actors to be involved and assist in the work in the surveying process. Today, we have a wide range of consultancy companies specialised in this type of business, but because of the regulatory framework we have, they cannot participate in the actual execution process. This, of course, helps to discourage this. Another question is how political priority is given to this, i.e. what means are made available for it to happen. I note that the Moderates spend 20 million more on Lantmäteriet in their budget than do the January parties together. In addition, we propose an announcement. I would also like to support the committee's proposal in general, but we are proposing an announcement that the government must make geodata available more quickly. It has now been four years since Ardalan Shekarabi wrote a debate article, which was also published on the government's website, underlining the importance of making geodata available as a matter of urgency. This work has been far too slow, and it is therefore good that Parliament is now telling the government that it must be given greater priority than it is today. With that, Madam President, I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 13 – only for time to win it, but of course we also support our other reservations – and otherwise for the proposal in the report.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-935	Madam President, I would like Yes, we are debating property law today. I would like to start by supporting the committee in making geodata available. Lantmäteriet today needs to coordinate the geodata of authorities and municipalities, i.e. data on maps, properties, population and other data. Lantmäteriet needs to make this available in order to coordinate and create efficiency around the geodata currently collected. They are needed to speed up the construction process and reduce costs and for Sweden to be at the forefront of digitalisation. It is also important because many companies build their systems on these geodata, which can have very positive economic effects with very little input into the state budget. I am pleased that the committee has supported the possibility of free access to geodata as a long-term objective in the announcement we are addressed to the government. In 2020, Lantmäteriet and others submitted a report on making geodata available free of charge. It was thought that there would be a budget cost of SEK 553 million. The Swedish Democrats already in their parliamentary budget last autumn had an addition of SEK 250 million to begin the availability of geodata. Large socio-economic values would be made possible by free access to geodata. The report talks about socio-economic values of between SEK 10 and 21 billion annually. It is therefore a very small effort that has a very large economic impact. We are concerned on the part of the committee that the government should give priority to the further availability of geodata to authorities and to the public. The government should come back with an appropriate financing solution for making available. We are therefore pleased that the committee is in fact in favour of this today, which has not happened before. The second point I wanted to make in my speech today concerns the leasehold. It is also dealt with in the only reservation of time in the report that the Swedish Democrats are calling for, reservation 2. The land lease system is a very good system because it means that you as a property owner or tenant-owner do not have to go in with money for the land cost. There is also no need to take the initiative, which enables more families and people to get a place to live. It is basically a good system, enabling more people to access housing. However, the system is very unpredictable. This means greatly increased costs when the land value rises. The system is unsafe and thus also unattractive for people to enter precisely because it is a bit unpredictable and can lead to very high costs for the household economy. This system was created in 1907, over 100 years ago, and reformed in 1953, when one saw a need to make changes in a system that was beneficial and good and where one saw positive effects for society. The question is why the Social Democrats and the government today are so reluctant to reform the system in modern times to enable more families to enter a land-ownership system that allows them to have their own housing. Why do we not adapt the system to today's conditions? In view of this, Madam President, I once again call for the approval of reservation 2, which requires a review of the land lease system in order to enable more people to make use of the more secure system.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-945	Madam President, I would like Mapping and building construction belong with their 400 years to the oldest operations in the state. Already in the 17th century, the organization that became Lantmäteriet began to build maps and provide the King with a basis for building cities, harbours, business and transport. But quite soon the task was also to map people's property so that they could be taxed. In that part, it's pretty little that's happened. Through Lantmäteriet, the state has full control of building formation, and the maps remain even if they have now been digitised, are more sophisticated and related to other statistics. It is part of this debate that one is critical of Lantmäteriet for its slow management and that there are too few alternative ways of creating and reshaping real estate. However, this has been the case for a long time and may remain if we do not decide to change it. Madam President, I would like The work carried out in developing the digital geodata infrastructure to make it available to anyone who might be able to use it is a first step. The next is to find a financing model that avoids paying directly when using it. For the Center Party it is important that small municipalities, construction companies, other actors and individuals are not disadvantaged by a high cost and therefore refrain from using geodata. Responsibility must be joint and several, and what the state does not want to pay must be financed by a model in which many are involved and share the costs. It is very positive and not at all unnecessary that a majority in the committee should issue a notice to the government that it should speed up financing solutions and also produce a standardisation of geodata. Otherwise, the Center Party has some criticism to make, which we also share with others. This is precisely about long processing times for relatively simple cases, such as the redistribution of shares in road transport. This may seem a minor matter, but it may hinder the development of a locality when participation rates are out of date for a long time. Only the National Association of Individual Roads has 12 600 members. In Finland, for example, this is something that the Association can organise itself through a simple procedure. As has been pointed out, Lantmäteriet has now proposed the same thing as the National Association of Individual Roads, namely that a percentage can be changed if two thirds of the shareholders agree. There has been an announcement before, and in fact we should not have to ask for approval of it, which we do not do this time either. Furthermore, it is unfortunate that there are still legal uncertainties as to how joint ventures should act in order to regulate charging points for electric vehicles. According to Lantmäteriet, charging equipment often requires a new service, which costs large sums. It is also a question of large investments, which requires consensus in the context of cooperation. Unnecessary and uncertain regulatory barriers are the last thing we need in the conversion of the fleet. We therefore call today for the approval of reservation 7, which applies to this. When we talk about Lantmäteriet, it is important, as I began with, to emphasise its central and important role in keeping track of the foundations of our ownership – the availability of land and water resources. When the public needs to use land to develop common infrastructure, it is important to feel that the compensation is reasonable and that as a landowner you can also take part in the social benefits that come from a new road, a power line or a mobile mast. Here we and the Christian Democrats have a pleasing consensus and a common reservation. The same applies to the Land Acquisition Act, which is lifted up as an obstacle when it prevents legal persons from buying land from individual landowners. The Center Party is very concerned that a change in the Land Acquisition Act would lead to difficulties for young people, for example, to assert themselves against companies when buying properties. We do not see a need for changes to parts of the Land Acquisition Act that would enable legal entities such as larger companies to buy land. It is not now time to hold back the criticism of long processing times at Lantmäteriet. Digitisation offers many opportunities to simplify and speed up, because the surveyor does not have to be in place, and that meetings can be digital or solved in other ways. We also see opportunities for Lantmäteriet to transfer the practical work on building construction to outsiders. As Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin mentioned, the knowledge and competence is great among the consulting companies involved in housing construction and infrastructure. It should be better used. The principle of proximity should apply, and in municipalities there is competence and sometimes also resources. Today, 39 municipalities already have their own surveying authorities that carry out cutting-off, real estate regulation, merger and split-up of properties – almost all the tasks that are otherwise addressed to Lantmäteriet in Gävle. The Center Party advocates that more municipalities should be allowed to set up their own surveying facilities and also collaborate on surveying services across municipal boundaries. Madam President, I would like For the C enter party, ownership is absolutely fundamental. Every time someone advocates new and expanded national interests, we protest. The same applies when someone without compensation is prevented from using their forest or meadow land, and our position on the beach protection is that you should be able to build your property even if it is located at a creek or a smaller lake. Property formation should be fair and correct, and it is not in contradiction to the fact that it should be done quickly and effectively and in close dialogue with the people concerned.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-959	Madam President, I would like One of the municipalities' most important tools for offensive housing is land policy, and this particular report, Property Law, deals with land policy. A prerequisite for implementing important urban development measures is that the municipality also owns exploitable land. In municipalities that become dependent on the good will of individual landowners to plan and then build, housing construction risks becoming uneven, unpredictable and inadequate. However, the possibility for municipalities to acquire attractive construction land has decreased since the 2010 Riksdag endorsed the bourgeois government's proposal to abolish the Pre-Purchase Act. The Pre-Purchase Act granted a municipality pre-purchase right for the sale of certain types of properties. The law was an important tool for local authorities' spatial planning and urban development and support for more exploitation agreements. The construction law investigation has been tasked with reviewing municipalities' possibilities to ensure that existing building rights are used. The background to the mission is the great need to quickly find housing. We can't build houses without land. And the amount of land is limited. This is the case in every municipality and in every country. It is very important that we use the land we have in a good and efficient way. There are supply requirements for housing. Anyone who needs a place to live should have a place to live — a reasonable place to live that you can afford. Without land, this will not be possible. We can talk as much as we want about housing policy and building housing, but if we have no land to build on, nothing will happen. That is why land policy is very important for housing policy. Madam President, I would like In August 2018, the Construction Law Investigation submitted its report A faster housing construction. The study's analysis shows that the problems of delays and building rights usually relate to privately owned land, as municipalities have sharper tools to quickly obtain housing on their own land. The study therefore considers that municipalities should pursue more strategic and long-term land policy with a view to acquiring their own land. Among other things, the investigation proposes that Boverket be commissioned by the government to investigate the issue of the introduction of a municipal pre-purchase law that will facilitate residential and urban development in the municipalities. The starting point for Boverket's mission should be to investigate a new, modern pre-purchase law that also addresses the problems that existed in the previous pre-purchase law. Madam President, I would like The report on equal opportunities has supported the proposal of the Construction Court investigation to investigate the introduction of a modernised municipal pre-purchase right. In my opinion, the government should give Boverket or a special investigator such a commission and then return to Parliament with proposals for a new pre-purchase law. I support all the reservations expressed by the Green Party, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 10 in the report.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-968	Madam President, I would like In my opinion, planning work in the municipality from idea to reality takes far too long while Lantmäteriet takes a long time to cut off. Add to this the appeal period, which is a possibility for those who wish to delay construction. One might wonder whether it is reasonable for us to allow such long lead times. When different parts of society interact – or do not interact – it takes a long time. We can't influence everything. Some, however, are our responsibility, some are the responsibility of the county administrative board, some are the responsibility of the judiciary, some are the responsibility of the municipalities and some are actually the responsibility of the individual citizen. Everyone needs to think about how to help reduce the distance and time from idea to finished house. Something we can actually influence is Lantmäteriet. Its activities must be used as efficiently and efficiently as possible. For a large number of operations and for the entire civil engineering process, Lantmäteriet's efforts are of crucial importance. Housing construction requires the creation of new properties, and construction of railways requires land leases with the support of the Property Forming Act, the Rights of way Act and the Construction Act. Business is doing business where real estate regulation and cutting-off are crucial for the establishment of new businesses and the development of companies. We have to let Lantmäteriet take care of things that need to be done there and let other actors take care of the other parts. In my opinion, many actors – consultants, construction companies or property owners themselves – could do some of what Lantmäteriet is doing today, such as the measurement part of an event, which today's regulatory system prevents. We must take this seriously and reform Lantmäteriet's work if we want lead times from idea to finished house to be reduced. Madam President, I would like Digitisation is, I would argue, still in its infancy in Sweden. We have built highways for digitisation, and we have capacity in the form of products, but we have not yet begun to make full use of digitalisation. However, the survey has tried to be at the forefront and has developed a roadmap to enable open geodata. However, there are those who want to stop this through old contracts, fees and more. I think we need to unleash the power that exists in digitalisation and let everyone use it. How we finance this can always be discussed, but creating a system in which each individual operator will conclude contracts and pay a fee will only mean that it will not be used as efficiently as possible. By making full use of digitalisation, it is possible to streamline and facilitate many parts of Administration Sweden, while at the same time creating the possibility of simpler, faster and more legally secure decision-making. This creates a need for harmonisation of systems and for uninhibited exchange of information in order to use the same information in different ways many times. We must all, including politicians, dare to let go of the sag and let others in to win something at the other end. Public geodata is one such example, which is included in the proposals today. Public geodata is a necessary foundation stone in the construction of our future society, where we use our accumulated resources as well as possible and as legally secure as possible. I am very pleased that we have an announcement about it, and I hope it goes through. I would also like to say something about the land lease system, which is not attractive today. I think that with a change it will be attractive, but it is badly used today. If you want to speed up the construction of a villa, I think that the Santa Claus system is an opportunity. The Santa Claus system needs to be reformed. It must be made attractive and predictable. I believe that the debt must be adjusted every year and not, as is the case today, every ten years. The interest must be specified in law so that the person with a leasehold also knows what it will cost in the future. We need to build more villas. The site can contribute to this, and with a plot of land it is initially much cheaper for the individual. I'm in favour of reservation number four.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-979	Madam President, I would like There are two parts to this report that I would like to highlight in particular. The first is about geodata. We in the Liberals are pleased that this proposal has now been heard by the committee and that an announcement is addressed to the government that the government should prioritise making geodata available and speeding up work on the standardisation of geodata. Geodata are necessary pieces of the puzzle for society to benefit from all the possibilities of digitalisation. Access to geodata is a very important part of digitalisation and the efficiency of the entire community building process. It is also of great importance in more areas of society for authorities, companies and private individuals. The lack of geodata can have major consequences, such as at the forest fire in Västmanland 2014, where the extinguishing work was made more difficult because the required data was not available. Standardisation in order to obtain uniform geodata would greatly improve both community planning and disaster response. Work on standardisation is ongoing, but it should be intensified as this currently constitutes an obstacle to exploiting the potential of geodata. The second part, Madam President, concerns our reservation 6, to which I commend it. It concerns the extension of the right of municipalities to organise walking and cycling routes. At the beginning of the year, Trafikverket presented a report in which the overall assessment was that it is often felt that bicycle projects are hindered by difficulties in gaining access to land. When a new area is planned, it is possible to secure ground for walking and cycling paths in the plc. But sometimes walking and cycling paths need to be built or broadened without it being the subject of planning, and municipalities may need access to land that is privately owned to resolve the issue. There is, of course, a balance between the interest of landowners and the general interest. There are several examples out in the country where children need to walk in the road to get to the sports hall, for example. There are also examples of places where the GC road has been built on the unbuilt side of a heavily burdened road to avoid severe and complicated ground penetration, with the effect that unprotected road users need to cross the road unnecessarily many times. As early as 2002, the Lantmäteriet in its report Review of the Construction Act proposed the introduction of a greater possibility for municipalities to organise, among other things, walking and cycling routes. An opportunity to allow municipalities to organise walking and cycling routes has also been advocated in the reports on Increased and Safer Cycling, from 2012, and Fossil Freedom on the Road, from 2013. The first report stated that the need to build bicycle routes had increased since Lantmäteriet prepared its report in 2002 – and now the need has increased for a further ten years. The investigator considered that the proposal concerning the right of municipalities to organise bicycle routes should be implemented, but nothing has happened so far. The Swedish Parliament has recently, on a proposal from the Transport Committee, decided to announce that the government should return with proposals that make it possible to build free cycle paths without requiring direct connection to roads intended for motor traffic. The report and the announcement are currently being analysed within the Government Office. I think it is important that the issue of a change to the Construction Act in order to give municipalities greater opportunities to organise walking and cycling routes is highlighted in the ongoing work. Better opportunities for municipalities to organise walking and cycling paths are good, both from a road safety point of view and from a climate perspective. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about Lantmäteriet. We all agree that the processing times are too long and that there is a great need for digitalisation. Long processing times lead to long lead times in construction processes. The need to put in place the new monitoring model, which the agency is working on, is great. Liberals are no stranger to allowing independent actors in the future to do some of the tasks that Lantmäteriet is currently doing, as many have done before in the debate. But right now we want Lantmäteriet to prioritise the work on digitalisation and to make open geodata available, in accordance with the announcement now addressed to the government.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-991	Madam President, I would like Old feudal structures are not to be preserved in a modern society. It is something that should be relegated to the dump of history and only mentioned in the history books. In 1280 the Swedish noble system was introduced. At first, the nobility consisted of a kind of royal mercenaries who avoided paying taxes because they volunteered soldiers to the king when he called. Then they were paid in the form of seized land. Eventually, the duty to volunteer with soldiers disappeared, but the nobility privileges remained. Privileges were laid down in Law 1626 and were not effectively abolished until 1866. In the 18th century, setting up a fideiskommiss was a way of keeping property undivided in successions and eliminating inheritance law. The property structure often made the very eldest son a new master while daughters and other sons were left without inheritance. A fideiskommiss means that a person has, because of a provision in a gift letter or will, a property with a kind of restricted right to dispose of it. It is usually stated in a will concerning the property that it will be inherited for an unlimited period by the oldest male heir in the next generation and that the property may not be borrowed or sold or otherwise reduced. Madam President, I would like One might think that the government, with social democrats and environmentalists, would not want to keep these fidei Commissions with their unfair construction and their patriarchal character. But even though the Parliament adopted a law on the winding up of the Fidei Commission in 1963, they are still there. An exemption rule allows the government to extend them, and this has also been done. The retention of patriarchal legislation that overrides current inheritance legislation seems absurd from the perspective of equality and gender equality. It is time to dismantle this system. We've been at it for almost 50 years. It doesn't make sense for this to take so long. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden is one of the world's most developed countries in terms of gender equality and democracy. But we have to ask ourselves whether we are such a modern and democratic country as we believe when regulations from the 18th century still block the right to individual ownership of populations throughout the country. We still have a system based on old historical structures, the historical leases. Historical leases refer to leases held by members of the same family for several generations. It is the tenants themselves who have been responsible for all the investments, which have had to break new land, build agricultural buildings, construct irrigation systems and more. For hundreds of years, they have spent their energy, effort and money developing their activities but have not been able to secure them. Someone else is there and collects the profits, without lifting a finger. Once the tenant has made millions of investments, the owner raises the lease. After all, the value of the land has increased, thanks to the investments. It is unfair that farmers are not in a position to acquire the security and legal certainty that a redemption of the leased farm would provide. There is an imbalance in the contractual relationship between the landowner and the tenant, where the tenant is the weaker party. In practice, many of the people who rent this type of land are still farmers. In many cases, too, they are unable to take action, such as shooting wild boars and geese that destroy crops. That hunting right is to be rented out by the owner. Madam President, I would like Sweden is the only country in the Nordic countries that has left this system. These old feudal structures cannot be supposed to remain in our country. After an investigation in 1991, a unanimous committee presented a proposal for a law on the redemption of historic leases. However, no proposal for a law on redemption was ever put forward by the government in connection with dealing with other issues. What we managed to introduce in Denmark in 1919, a legal right to redeem leases, we should be able to introduce in Sweden now more than 100 years later. In the face of the right to redeem the historic leases!
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1002	Madam President, I would like According to the parliamentary order, a committee can make proposals in the Riksdag on subjects that belong to the committee's preparatory area. That is what has now been done in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs when it comes to examining the current travel guarantee system. Covid-19 has hit the world hard and Sweden hard. The pandemic has put great strain on individuals as well as on society as a whole. It's affected all of us. For some, it has meant the death of family members or close friends, and in many cases it has not been possible to take a proper leave. People have been isolated, and loneliness plagues many. Health care has been put under great pressure, and we do not yet know what consequences it may have for public health in the future. Covid-19 has also hit hard on people who have had a job to go to one day but not the other. Sick leave has also made income uncertain. The expression struck hard may be said to be an understatement in this context. But we all have the picture quite clear to us, although we do not yet know the final consequences. Many companies, depending on the industry, of course, have also been severely affected, which in turn can affect consumers. This has been the case with the travel industry. Consumers have paid in advance for a journey that could not then be carried out, and the company has lacked cash to be able to repay the money. We have taken steps to mitigate the impact on the passengers who have been affected. The EU has pointed to a voucher system. In an additional amending budget for 2021, the Government has committed SEK 679 million for a tour operator loan. Some consumers have received their money back, but there are still many circumstances that do not provide adequate protection for travellers today. It needs to be reviewed. Regarding consumer protection, it is important to mention that it is largely harmonised within the EU. In November, therefore, the EU presented a consumer policy strategy which stated that it would analyse the extent to which the Package Travel Directive still serves its purpose, in the light of what has happened. The Commission intends to complete its analysis by 2022. Sweden and our government should of course be an active part of this process of change, as it is desirable to have good protection throughout the EU. We support this committee initiative because we see that it is important for consumers and businesses affected. Long-term and sustainable solutions need to be chiseled out for the future. Finally, it is also important to mention that we must stop covid-19. We must all continue to take responsibility for reducing the spread of infection and vaccinate ourselves in order to stop the pandemic. So far, however, it is continuing, and we will have to constantly review new roads within both Sweden and the EU in order to limit the impact. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1012	Madam President, I would like As you know, the Pandemin struck society with full force. One industry that experienced this in a tangible way is the travel industry. About a year ago, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs decided to advise against travelling to all countries. The consequence of this was, in principle, a trade ban for an entire industry. The travel guarantee system that we have today does not cover the situation when a trip is cancelled because of a de facto travel ban from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, but the travel guarantee system that we have to replace a consumer's journey when it has been cancelled because of the tour operator's insolvency. Instead, the situation was that many tour operators came to be insolvent because of the travel ban. But the trip was cancelled not because of insolvency but because of the travel recommendations of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It dawned on us as a party and on many others that the system that we, as politicians, had created to protect and help consumers now risked destroying an entire industry. We reasoned that politics should therefore be involved in taking responsibility for trying to help an industry that is in difficulty. On the one hand, it is liable for repayment, but on the other hand it is neither allowed nor able to carry out its activities in practice. In fact, it had received a ban on trade from politics but had not received adequate compensation for it. Therefore, in the spring, the Moderates took an initiative to introduce a travel guarantee with a fund solution, which could eventually become self-financing by the industry. But politics, for example, needed to lend money in order for the fund to come into place and so that both consumers and the travel industry would not suffer great financial losses. That chance was there and then. But the government did nothing or very little to remedy the problem. Time passed. Nothing happened, and tour operators began to go bankrupt. What then happened, and which has made us stand here today, was that the Center Party brought about an almost equivalent, not quite as obedient, but somewhat more watered-down proposal than what we Moderates put forward from the beginning. Madam President, I would like I find that troubling. There is reason to consider whether the Center Party has been genuine in this. Or has it simply been waiting for the time so that it will not cost any money, so that the proposal will not be applicable to those companies that are now in trouble? It has also been quite transparent with that. It has been said: No, we will not be able to help those affected by the pandemic this time in this regard. This will be for the future. That, Madam President, seems to me to be evading his responsibilities. If you think something, you should also reasonably stand for it and pursue that policy. But it has become clear that, as a concession to the government cooperation it supports, it has chosen not to do so. This is, of course, regrettable for Sweden's consumers and for the travel industry that has suffered great hardship during the pandemic. Now we are here with a watered-down report proposing that the government set up an investigation. We all agree, because an investigation is better than nothing. However, we could have decided on a far better and sharper proposal if we had already moved on to the proposal made by the Moderates, which the Center Party has now tried to copy, barely a year ago. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1021	Madam President, I would like Quite exactly a year ago, on 14 March 2020, the world closed down. The pandemic was a fact. The advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs from all non-necessary journeys to all countries has since been extended a number of times and continues to apply to many of the countries around us. Hundreds of thousands of consumers with booked trips got caught. The law says that consumers should have the money back within 7 and 14 days respectively, but the possibilities for travel companies to pay back have been, and are still, very small. A thick black blind was pulled down over the whole travel business. The government's support package and measures for companies have been too complicated and too few. They're too late. They haven't hit the right spot. Help to the travel industry has thus not been provided, and many consumers have had to wait a long time for what they are legally entitled to. Companies have gone bankrupt. Livsverk has been beaten to pieces. Several e-mails and telephone calls have come from representatives of travel companies who desperately tried to tell the government that the situation is urgent. Nevertheless, the actions of the government and its cooperation parties have been very passive. Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats are pleased that the proposal that we and the Moderates, supported by the Christian Democrats, have now also received support from the other parties in the Civil Committee. However, it is sad that it has taken so much time for the other parties to understand that the situation is urgent and that something needs to be done. A whole year after the shutdown of the industry became a fact, the Center Party and others react. Lately the sinner should wake up, as they say. As early as April 2020, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates put forward proposals for measures for businesses and consumers. Then the Center voted against. The representatives of the government parties also voted 'no' and stated that they did not exert pressure on the government through committee initiatives, despite the fact that they did so in the past and that they do not seem to have any problem with doing so on many other issues. The truth was probably, Madam President, that the proposal came from the wrong party. The representatives of the government parties said last spring that the government was already working on the issue, but the months passed and nothing happened. The problems for the travel industry continued to be large and escalated as time went by. When September came, there were no suggestions on the table. Then we Swedish democrats put forward a new proposal to help consumers and save the travel industry. This time too, the Center Party and the rest of the JÖK constellation voted 'no'. Now, almost a year after the crisis became a reality, the Center Party is putting forward this proposal with essentially the same meaning, and then it is clearly possible to exert pressure on the government through committee initiatives. I guess it's okay to vote yes. I must say, Madam President, that I find it pitiful. The Prestige is so high among these parties in the Swedish Parliament that without blinking, entrepreneurs and consumers are caught up. Madam President, I would like The legislation in place today is not adapted to situations such as the one we have had with the coronapndemine. The travel business is screaming for help. Some have lost 100 percent of their turnover. Although many companies have now paid back to consumers, often through unfavorable loans, the danger is far from over. That is why the Swedish Democrats have pushed for change, and I hope that the government now understands the seriousness of the situation and will act accordingly. It is also important that legislation is reviewed for the future so that we do not end up in this situation the next time we have a global crisis. That is why we will support this initiative, as it is in line with the initiatives we have taken ourselves. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we are happy to support good proposals, no matter who puts them forward. We take our task of representing the will of the people seriously.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1028	Madam President, I would like It has well emerged from previous speakers that the committee initiative supported by all parties was taken on a proposal from the Center Party. It is not that many years since we decided on the current travel guarantees, which means that a traveller can only receive reimbursement of tickets and compensation for any return trip if the tour operator is insolvent and goes bankrupt. The pandemic has exposed shortcomings which we are now taking the initiative to address. There are many here who have described this in a graphic way. Everyone knows what the pandemic has meant for people's opportunities to move and travel. We all know this. What happens if the organiser is prevented from fulfilling his commitment when, as is now happening, borders are closed and all traffic within the country almost ceases? Everyone knows the reasons why tour operators are now asking us for support. Like other companies, they have the opportunity to apply for turnover aid and short-term lay-offs, but unlike many others, they have suffered double. When we talk about this, I would also like to point out that both the turnover aid and the short-term lay-off aid are financial aid resulting from the fact that the Centre Party has been a budgetary negotiating party. What we are now dissatisfied with are the late payments and the complicated rules. Revenue already received by tour operators from sold-out journeys must be repaid to customers, while at the same time bearing claims against hotels, transport companies, guides and others who are in the same precarious position as themselves. In addition, as everyone knows, the market for new sales is stone-dead. What, then, is a tour operator? Most people probably think of one of the major companies that fly us to the Canary Islands, to Paris or even further away by means of interconnected services such as flights, transports, hotels, excursions, guides etc. But it can also be a smaller organiser of sports trips, cultural trips or concert trips. What is needed is that the journey is sold as a bundled arrangement. So many small businesses are involved. These organizers have nowhere else to collect money than from their own pocket. The pandemic has affected everyone equally, and it is clear that there have been shortcomings in the current travel guarantee law that could not be foreseen when it was last amended. It has been pointed out in the debate that I and the Center Party have not been the first to point out the urgent needs of the travel industry, but we have been aware all along. I wish I'd been there that time. It is for well-known reasons, which I do not think we should devote valuable speaking time to going into now. By making demands on the government on a number of points, namely 73 points, the Centre Party has been involved in coordinating the budget and has created the situation we have today. There, the Center Party has every opportunity to influence. It is also about taking responsibility for the Swedish economy. This is particularly true in times of crisis when we may have put forward 20 different crisis packages and budgets to save businesses, some of which are also in the travel industry. As can be seen, we have been the first to present proposals in the Swedish Parliament to investigate a change of law that may lead to such support being developed and financed in the way proposed by the Swedish Travel Agency and Organizers' Association in a letter to the Government on 2 December 2020. It is not, therefore, that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says a blue copy of the Moderates' proposal, but it is the travel industry's own proposal that we put forward as a proposal. Since the question was originally raised by both the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, the Center Party has not been on the lazy side. We have used our decisive influence on economic policy to ensure that a government loan can be set up, from which companies still in debt to their travellers can be helped to repay. It has been good for the travelers, of course, who have had to wait for their money. But it has also offered these companies, which have not been able to repay passengers' money, an opportunity to continue to exist and to plan for the future. The loan framework is SEK 670 million. That is the sum we have been able to put into an additional amending budget as a new allocation in Category 24 Enterprise. This is the closest thing to financing the travel industry we have seen in any budget option put forward in Parliament and also in shadow budgets. For it is not enough to replace the industry with fair words and various initiatives. There is a need for money and a willingness to give priority to this in their own budget at a time when many other tasks are more urgent for good reason. Madam President, I would like My hope is that the investigation that the unanimous civil committee is now asking the government to set up will work quickly and that the fund that the tour operators themselves commit themselves to financing can be set aside in future budgets. But it is a process that we do not control here and now, Madam President. I am pleased and pleased that we are quickly reaching a decision. I know that many organizers had hoped to receive more support while the pandemic was going on and on. We had hoped to be able to book vacations again, only this spring and then in the summer. Now we do not know what the rest of 2021 will look like. It is my hope that with today's decision we will give both travellers and tour operators some light in the tunnel, which means that we can plan a future with experiences and good recreation. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1041	Madam President, I would like My question to Ola Johansson is simple. On two previous occasions – in April 2020 and in September 2020 – the committee has dealt with the issue. Both times the Center Party voted against. Now they turn on the big drum and announce the launch of this initiative. It only happens after a year of a really serious and acute situation for consumers and entrepreneurs and shortly after severe criticism was directed against the Center Party in the seminar organised by the industry. It's hardly a coincidence. Don't get me wrong. I am delighted that the Centre Party has now woken up and is willing to support the initiative to improve for businesses and consumers. But why could it not be done in April or September? My question to Mr Johansson is therefore: why does the Centre Party vote against this initiative twice if it is in favour of the matter in substance? Is it really the case that the Centre Party is at such an incredibly low level that it cannot vote for a good proposal just because it comes from the Swedish Democrats?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1045	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by trying to explain to Angelica Lundberg how it relates to the proposals put forward as committee initiatives in the Civil Committee and how it works with economic policy. I think Angelica Lundberg could go home and look through the shadow budget of Sweden's democrats and look for the amount of money earmarked for this financial support to the travel industry that she herself initiated. Taking responsibility for an industry and, at the same time, taking responsibility for Sweden's economy means not only putting forward proposals for measures but also being prepared to set the cost that has been talked about in contrast to other urgent expenditure. It is not possible to put forward a proposal for a committee initiative which is not then backed up by provisions of financial resources in its own shadow budget. It is very important to point out. That is also what makes the talk about who was first or who came last with this quite pointless. Money needs to be spent if such a measure is to be implemented. The very fact that money needed to be disposed of there and then in the way that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats put forward in their proposals was the reason why the Center Party could not say yes to the proposal there and then, although we feel great sympathy and compassion for the travel industry. What we did instead was to make sure that we had a conversation with the government and that SEK 679 million that the tour operators could use as a loan was made available as soon as possible. It's very important and important. It also shows that if you want to be able to influence, you should sit and negotiate budgets and not stand in the speaker's seat and say that you want to do things that you then do not have cover for in your own budget.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1051	Madam President, I would like When we put forward the proposals almost a year ago, the objections of the Center Party were rife. We hear the same objections here today. The objection was that the proposal was a budget driver. The committee boasted that it did not see that money in the Swedish Democrats' budget, and that is the same objection we are hearing here today. Now the Center Party itself is putting forward the same proposal. But it has no money in its budget. The Center Party has no budget. That's Stefan Lövven's budget. But there is also no money for a travel fund for the travel industry. Why is there not, if that was the objection and the argument against our proposal? Why, then, is this money not in the government budget, as Ola Johansson says here today? It's obvious where the Center has its loyalties. It's not with businesses or consumers. If I had been an entrepreneur and especially in the travel industry, I would not have voted for the Center Party in the next election. That's for sure. The loans that Ola Johansson mentions and which he announced will meet far from right. Here, companies that have done all they can and taken bad loans are disadvantaged in order to be able to pay back to consumers. Nor is it the money that Ola Johansson talks about in her initiative, but it is the support fund with the money to save the travel industry. They are also not included in the Center Party's budget, or for that matter in Stefan Lövven's budget. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Ola Johansson whether he himself does not think he is staying at a rather low level. It is to some extent childish to conduct politics in this way. Wouldn't it be better if the Center Party rose up slightly for the sake of businesses and consumers?
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1059	Madam President, I would like Politics is about bringing together majorities around proposals that are possible to implement. That may be the way Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says it is watered down compared to what was said six months ago. But that is the proposal that can be implemented and which can be supported by a broad majority and by the whole committee and Parliament. Then that's what we can do. That's what the Center Party does. Our contribution to politics is to ensure that things are done. Then you should not underestimate the importance of SEK 679 million in a loan to those companies that do not have own funds to repay their travellers. It has, of course, been extremely important for travellers who have been out of money for a very long time, but also for companies who do not have to sell their assets in order to make the repayment that they have probably waited too long with. At the same time, however, I note that Angelica Lundberg has not confirmed that in her own shadow budget, the Swedish Democrats have taken up the extra cost that she proposed six months ago. Had you been serious, you would have put that cost against other things that you want to do, but the Swedish Democrats have not done that. They have chosen to spend that money on something else.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1062	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has hit the world hard in a way that not many predicted in 2019. The effects have been much greater than in the past outbreaks of the disease in the 21st century. People have become seriously ill and died. The economy has been hit hard. Growth has stopped. Companies have got tough and gone bankrupt. People have lost their jobs and their homes. Medical staff are on their knees. Many have had an extremely difficult time. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has now been going on for over a year. Travel companies have become repayable for many package tours regardless of whether they received their expenses back or not. At the same time, new bookings have been largely non-existent, which means that new money does not come in. Consumers who have booked travel cannot get their money back. In 2018, the Package Travel Act and the Travel Guarantee Act entered into force. According to the Package Travel Act, a traveller may cancel a journey before it starts and shall receive the money back. Travel guarantee means protection against financial damage that may affect the traveller if the organiser does not have money to pay back. Package tour organisers are obliged to ensure that package travel is covered by a travel guarantee approved under the Travel Guarantee Act. Here, every entrepreneur can choose for himself what kind of protection they want. The travel guarantee could previously be used even when a trip was cancelled or interrupted due to force majeure. However, the new Travel Guarantee Act applies only in the event of insolvency. These things have caused problems in the situation caused by the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Now a united committee has decided to investigate the design of the Swedish travel guarantee scheme, with the aim of ensuring that travellers have greater financial protection for the future. Hopefully, a broad and unconditional review of the travel guarantee scheme will produce a solution that everyone can agree on.
i-f81307c4c0b95ba7-1067	Madam President, I would like It is important to draw lessons from the crisis we are currently experiencing. One lesson is that there is a lack of effective protection for consumers who bought a trip when the world shuts down because of a pandemic and that businesses in the industry were caught up in the current legislation. Now we have a chance to improve that situation for the next crisis. The solution may well be to build a fund financed by the industry; the investigation will tell. However, it is important that we follow in parallel the revision of the Package Travel Act initiated by the European Commission, so that we have a sustainable system at European level. In so doing, we support the proposal for a declaration. Madam President, I would like As the last speaker today and in the light of this debate, I would like to remind everyone to help keep the spread of the disease down and to take the vaccine once we are offered it. I think we all yearn to reopen society and not least to travel.
