i-52ea7b003455b18c-6	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I believe that reducing travel due to a pandemic is a reasonable reason to dismantle Bromma airport and, if not, the reasons for my decision and that of the government. No, it's not the pandemic that's the reason. The Coronapendemy has brought with it a sharp drop in air travel. But already in 2018 there was a trend break, where domestic aviation began to decrease while we saw a major social debate about the climate impact of aviation. A large part of the traffic at Bromma airport is domestic traffic. It is doubtful whether the volumes of domestic traffic will be the same as before. There are several reasons for this. One important reason is the increase in digitalisation, which means that the need for business travel can be reduced, including for aviation. This is clear, not least in view of the development of telework during the pandemic. The Government has appointed an investigator to analyse and report on how the operations and operations at Bromma airport can be formally phased out. Among other things, it is a question of describing the legal aspects and the economic conditions and consequences of the closure of the airport. The investigator also has the task of describing and reporting measures to ensure the necessary capacity at Arlanda Airport in the event of a winding-up of the business. The assignment shall be presented by 31 August at the latest. Swedavia AB has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma airport from the company's mission and business perspective. According to Swedavia's assessment, under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. Swedavia further assesses that air traffic in Stockholm should instead be concentrated in Arlanda Airport. Their assessment is that this best safeguards both competitiveness and accessibility. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with a large distance. This means that aviation plays an important role in the transport system in terms of long-distance travel and transport. At the same time, aviation has a significant environmental and climate impact to reduce. Flying, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal of Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for the answer, which was written several days ago. The government's parties change their position quite often, and the answer we heard may not apply today. We'll get back to that. Let me say clearly that working air traffic connections throughout Sweden are very important for jobs, for businesses and for people to be able to live and operate in different places around our country. Of course, the reduction in travel during the pandemic should in no way be taken into account because everything has changed fundamentally. We don't know anything about that. Many of us may think that things have been affected in different directions, but probably all over Sweden there will be a great need to be able to get to and from our capital and further out into the world. In this way, a functioning domestic flight is very important. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure replies that this is not done because of Corona. In his reply, however, he says that we have changed patterns during the Corona, so at least on the basis of the Minister's own reply it is still one of the reasons. Swedavia has been given the task of looking at the market conditions of this, and it is clear, Madam President, that during a pandemic it is difficult to get the economy together both for an airport and for a lot of other things. It is a very exceptional situation. Furthermore, Swedavia talks about that you don't know what the next few years look like, and nobody does. Madam President, I would like With regard to Arlanda, it would be very good if we could increase the capacity so that we can get more air connections from there. What it's all about is not filling flights over every hour of the day. We need to be able to get to and from in pektides, so that's when the flight needs to work. The government says that it is the climate that is the reason, but if we land as many flights stuck at an airport instead of two, I find it difficult to see the great climate gains. Then there are other things that will contribute to a better climate. The only thing I can see is that the government has a plan to make it more difficult for people in the country to get to and from the Stockholm region, because that is the only way to reduce the climate load of aviation in the short term. We must hope that, in the long term, aviation will be more environmentally and climate friendly. If you try to take all the positions – both for and against the climate, for and against accessibility and for and against the possibility of being able to transport – it will of course be easy to talk to people in different contexts. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure whether, given that we are in a very exceptional situation during a pandemic, it is really reasonable to take this kind of big decision that the government is trying to make and thus make it more difficult for the whole of Sweden to access to and from our capital. The Moderates' answer to that question is no. The government has had both the yes and the no position in recent days, so to speak, and we will hear what the Minister for Infrastructure is saying here. Yesterday, it sounded as if at least half the government understood that there was no parliamentary support for what was said at the press conference, i.e. closing down Bromma airport. We Moderates are clear: We want good accessibility to and from our capital. What is the government's response to this?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-20	Madam President, I would like It is good that we have votes like Edward Riedl who gives the country a vote in the Swedish parliament, in this case from Västerbotten and with the northern perspective. Let me therefore add the Scanian perspective. Madam President, I would like Bromma is the whole of Sweden's airport. This is not an exclusivity for Stockholm. It is also extremely important to bear in mind that Stockholm is the capital of Sweden with all the advantages and disadvantages that it entails for the capital region. Since 1658, Skåneland's capital is not Copenhagen, but Stockholm. This, of course, means opportunities for Stockholm but also pressures. It is important to look to the whole country, and then Bromma is a prerequisite for all those who live in other parts of Sweden to get to and from their capital in a relatively simple way. All speeches by government and government parties have consequences. When you question Bromma, it spreads with good reason in Umeå, Visby, Kalmar, Ängelholm and Helsingborg. It's kind of like when Social Democrats come up with loose talk about property tax. Then it takes place in the heart of all the Swedes who have their own home or villa. Therefore, words are important. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I believe that the Minister for Infrastructure is right, namely that perhaps it is not the pandemic that is the reason why Bromma is being shut down, but that it is Brommahatet, not least as it has been expressed by the other Green Party government party. Unfortunately, Tomas Eneroth's answer, Madam President, is completely renonsed at the realization of what it looks like in the rest of the country. There is no reasoning, no assumption, about how this closing Bromma will affect other parts of the country. Bromma affects the frequency and price of the ticket. In addition, there are only a limited number of so-called castlesides, that is, the times in the morning and afternoon when planes preferably want to go up in the air or land. There is a great risk that if there is only Arlanda with current capacity, and once the traffic gets started to a greater extent, it will be more difficult, complicated or worse to get from other parts of the country to Stockholm – and even more important to get from Stockholm to other parts of the country. Madam President, I would like Some day ago there was a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet written by a number of local moderate representatives. It was Robin Holmberg in Ängelholm, Peter Danielsson in Helsingborg, Anja Tenje in Växjö, Pär Jönsson in Östersund and Anders Ågren in Umeå. They are real votes for the whole country in contrast to our Minister for Infrastructure who shows his indifference to the consequences of the closure of Bromma. Madam President, I would like I am therefore pleased that several parties in the Committee on Transport and Tourism have agreed on an initiative. It is believed that the Transport Committee, through a committee initiative, should address an announcement to the Government that Bromma will continue to be a modern airport and that decisions on Bromma's future can be made at the earliest when the aircraft recovers and reliable forecasts regarding the development of aviation can be made. Madam President, I would like It is fortunate that there are voices that speak for the whole country. The Minister of Infrastructure doesn't.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-27	Madam President, I would like I thank Edward Riedl for his wise argument. I would also like to thank Mr Wallmark, but I have to say that I am a little surprised by the tone. I know Hans Wallmark as a sympathetic and knowledgeable Member of Parliament from a beautiful part of Sweden. But to accuse me of not knowing how the whole country is doing and not taking a stand for the whole country I think was a little low, I'll be honest. As a minor I have flown several times not least from Växjö to both Arlanda and Bromma. We small-timers have had some different options. Right now, during the pandemic, we have had no opportunity to fly, but have had to travel by train or by car. So I'm familiar with the conditions. It is important to remember that the discussion about Bromma's being or not being is not new. It's been around for a long time. Anders Sundström had his Bromma investigation. In the Arlanda Council we have worked a lot on the question of how we can strengthen Arlanda's capacity to collect domestic aviation. Surely it is a strange order when I as Växjö have sometimes had to fly to Bromma and then take a taxi out to Arlanda to fly on. Surely it is a strange order that we in Sweden are not able to collect domestic flights at an airport, with all the possibilities it offers for transfer traffic further out into the country and all the opportunities it offers for us who come from the country to get direct access to flights out into the world. Arlanda Airport has been struggling with major challenges for a long time. That was the background to the Arlanda Council. This is something that business and politicians not only in Stockholm but also in Sweden have been concerned about. Not long ago, I had an interpellation debate with Moderate transport policy spokesperson Maria Stockhaus. She asked how to secure international direct connections from Sweden and from Arlanda. You know that Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country, and you know that we are heavily dependent on good communications internationally. But you also know that in that struggle Kastrup wins every day, and it should simplify the conditions for Arlanda to get an improved basis and collect domestic traffic on Bromma. That's how Swedavia reasons when it makes its market assessment of operating an empty airport like Bromma and would rather we gather the capacity at Arlanda. That is also the point of departure when we announce from the government that we are now setting up an investigation to look at this. We will look at the challenges that exist, how the capacity can be secured and that flights from all over the country can land at Arlanda. In turn, we can find out if it means the conditions to cope with good castle times. The previous announcement from the Riksdag came in 2016, and the conditions were of course quite different. It was then also possible to see that it would be difficult to find chateaux at pektides, as Edward Riedl rightly pointed out. Today, conditions are different. At ministerial meetings in Europe, we have adopted exceptional rules for castles. There are better opportunities than ever to make a move that would ensure good availability for flights from all over the country. This is not a unique process for Sweden. This is what the rest of Europe is like – believe me! I also talk to my colleagues in Europe. It is therefore a little strange that, like Hans Wallmark, you can be so firm in your opinion without even waiting for a proper basis, that the investigation will report on 31 August. My starting point and the government's starting point is, of course, that we will then return to the Riksdag. The Riksdag already has an announcement today about how Bromma will develop, and now there seems to be a movement going on in the Riksdag to change that position.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-35	Madam President, I would like Let me say a few words about what the Minister for Infrastructure talked about, namely that the answers to the questions asked in this House are lacking. I have said this many times before, and I say now that Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is a very sympathetic person but also a good debater. He always wriggles neatly and effectively away from all the issues in this House. So I'll try to finish with the questions I think the Minister for Infrastructure should answer. Then you listeners will judge whether he is able to avoid answering the questions or not. We have reached the maximum capacity at Arlanda Airport in many respects in terms of peak times. Anyone flying to and from the capital knows what it looked like before the pandemic. It was full at Arlanda. The logistics problems were very big. Then I find it very difficult to see how to swallow Bromma's entire capacity in pektides when it comes to airport infrastructure, castles, runways and so on. Before everything is in place, therefore, Bromma airport cannot be closed down without very large and significant difficulties for other parts of Sweden to have access to the capital and further out into the world. I'm from Norrland. A large part of the future is in Norrland. It's growing so creaky. The two counties, Norrbotten and Västerbotten, from which I come, are all about much of the Swedish export industry. It is the backbone of the Swedish economy. Many of the fine and flashy jobs in the capital are completely dependent on the Swedish base industry working. But there is also a picture that Swedish industry is producing these things and then exporting them, and so everything is clear. But that is not the case, Madam President. An increasing proportion of the turnover of large export companies today consists of services linked to what is being produced. Many companies cross the magic border when more than 50 percent of the revenue comes from service purchases linked to what they produce. Then you need good access both to the capital and further out into the world. That is why it is difficult to understand – and I shall begin to approach my questions to the Minister for Infrastructure, Madam President – that the Minister for Infrastructure is talking about the need to develop Arlanda Airport in order for it to swallow the capacity of Bromma while this government's first action in the pandemic was not to start a lot of construction at Arlanda when there were no people there. It is an exceptionally good location, if you want to develop Arlanda Airport, to start that work when there are no air passengers. Instead, the money is being deducted even though this Parliament issued an announcement as late as June 2020 that Arlanda should be developed and not strangled. That is why I have questions, Madam President. If I link all the beautiful things that the Minister for Infrastructure says with the actions that the government is actually doing, I find it difficult to make ends meet, but I have three questions. We will see if the Minister for Infrastructure is cutting them off or choosing to answer all three or at least one of them. Does the Minister want to develop Arlanda Airport, and if so, is he prepared to provide money to do so? Does he want more or fewer flights in Swedish domestic flights? It's pretty essential based on how the minister talks, because the minister talks about having both more and fewer flights at the same time. And above all, does the Minister for Infrastructure want to close down Bromma airport today or not? I'd like to know.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-44	Madam President, I would like Now, of course, this is not a competition for being most sympathetic, where there is probably reason to believe that the Minister for Infrastructure is better off than moderate MPs, but this is about the conditions for the whole country. What the Minister for Infrastructure himself says in his reply is that an investigation should be prepared to analyse how Bromma airport can be formally phased out. That is what we are discussing. Then it is that those who come from Ängelholm and Helsingborg, from Umeå, from Visby and from Kalmar, they ask questions about this. How does this affect frequency? How does it affect the price picture? How does it affect landing and take-off times? This cannot be ignored in any way, but it is the reality of those who have to get to and from the capital of Sweden. And then Bromma and Arlanda, so far in a rather excellent way, complement each other. Then there are some bad experiences in different parts of the country. For example, one consequence of Corona has been that the north-western municipalities have taken over Ängelholm Helsingborg Airport. It has been stated that they could receive support and help from the state, but this has not been the case – not a crown in addition to the general money. One can point out that the weather is nice in Skåne and that it is nice in Rebbelberga, Madam President. But that does not help, because when it comes to concrete measures, that is what counts. If other airports receive State aid and Ängelholm Helsingborg does not receive targeted State aid, it is clear that it affects. If Bromma is closed and it affects frequency, price and landing and take-off times, it affects people who live in other parts of the country but who are currently in need of Bromma. That's what it's about, not who's most sympathetic. That's where the minister wins.
i-9o1HmyAZzDJEGcoPuKf17e	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Hans Wallmark and Edward Riedl, for praise but also questions and wise points of view! To start with the investigation itself: The reason for investigating is to find out how it actually goes to phase out an airport. I think it might be important to find out.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-52	What about the clean-up costs? There have been activities there for a long time, and everyone can imagine that the land needs to be cleaned up very significantly if you are to build, for example, housing there. How to secure capacity? I think it is very important that flights, whether from Ängelholm or from northern Sweden or from home in Småland, should be able to land in Stockholm and have access to Stockholm. It's good for Stockholm, and it's good for Sweden.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-55	That is why the question must actually be put in an investigation. What is required to phase out Bromma airport, and how is the capacity at Arlanda secured? Mr Wallmark seems to have already decided on this, but I think it is important to bear it in mind. Nor was it that the first measure in the pandemic was to expand Arlanda. It would have been a bit odd to do it in a situation where all the flights around the world stood still. In fact, the first measure was to secure aviation – and one of the first efforts was to secure flights to Edward Riedl's constituency. We introduced public service obligations. When the market failed, we procured from the state's side flights that went not only from Gotland to the mainland but also up to Norrland because it is so important to secure that capacity, not least in a pandemic. In addition, we added considerable resources to the regional airports – and to Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and to the Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS) – for the simple reason that aviation is facing huge challenges worldwide, and aviation is important for Sweden. The flight is needed, but the flight needs to be changed. These are also the arguments to see if there are opportunities to secure the domestic flight on Bromma instead. Is it possible to secure good castle times during peak times? It's the investigator who's going to look at this. Edward Riedl asks if I want to develop Arlanda. I want the capacity of Arlanda to be secured. Swedavia says, which Edward Riedl does not quite follow, that the capacity is now sufficient to accommodate domestic aviation. I do not know if Edward Riedl has any other information than Mrs Swedavia has, but I can imagine that the committee responsible for the matter can invite Mrs Swedavia to find out what the conditions actually look like in the years to come to secure capacity. The investigator will also look at that, of course. Will there be more or fewer flights? Yes, most assessors in the world say that there are likely to be fewer flights even with a development of electric flights. I find it difficult to judge. I'm hoping for the change of flight. Industrially, I really hope for electric flights, and I hope for biofuels. But it's actually hard to predict what it's going to be like, because it's a really tough situation for flights all over the world right now. We also saw before the pandemic how travel patterns changed and more and more people chose to travel on trains, for example, instead of flights. But sustainable aviation is important for Sweden. That part needs to increase, and so does the aviation industry itself very clearly in its ambitious plans to get fossil-free flights. Do I want to shut down Bromma? Yes, there is no doubt about what we in the government intend when we present that we want to investigate the conditions for this. But I also have respect for the parliamentary decision that lies. I've been in Parliament for a long time. There is a parliamentary announcement that Bromma will even develop. Then the government must be able to announce an investigation and tell the Riksdag that this is what the conditions are now. But it is the Riksdag that owns this question, even if the formal decision on the basic supply is with the government and if Bromma's closure is with Swedavia.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-63	Madam President, I would like I want to clarify something on my part in our previous line shift. I said the Minister for Infrastructure is a very sympathetic person. I would just like to say that my honourable colleague, Mr Wallmark, is also a very sympathetic person. I will not try to decide in this speaker's chair which one of them is most sympathetic. However, I can say that one of the two is more specific and answers questions, and I would like to give that to my Moderate colleague, Mr Wallmark. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure does what he often does, namely does not answer any of the questions. Or, I'll give the minister the right to answer a question: he wants to close Bromma airport. But he has understood that there is no majority in the Riksdag for this, and it is the Riksdag that finally decides the matter. The problem is that this government wants to reduce air traffic. They want to make it difficult for the Swedish export industry and for people living in the country to get to and from the capital. It hurts jobs, and it hurts companies. Many people testify to that in the country. It also makes it difficult for people to live outside the Stockholm region when they do so. With regard to the public service obligations, which the Minister is talking about, I would just like to say two things. One is that it began in an announcement from the Riksdag. It was therefore parties other than the government parties who said that flight capacity must be secured on and off. The second is that you can do both, Madam President. You can expand your capacity at Arlanda while saving your flight during a rather exceptional crisis. There will be no concrete response from the Minister for Infrastructure more than a desire to shut down, make travel within the country more difficult and make it worse. The answer from the Moderates is very clear: We want to cooperate with all parties in the Swedish Parliament who want to make aviation more environmentally friendly and secure the capacity and opportunities to travel to and from our capital.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl – it is now understood that the Moderates, even more nowadays, call themselves a conservative party. Don't change the way things have been! Let everything be as it always has been! But seriously, the world is changing. This applies not only to the climate issue, where there are major changes, but also to the preconditions for aviation infrastructure in particular. That the Moderates have already decided without even waiting for an investigation from the government is still a bit special. However, I have spoken with many moderate representatives who still see the conditions and see the reasons why the capacity at Arlanda needs to be secured. The competition for international direct flights that will eventually, in a restarted flight, indicate that the base at Arlanda needs to be strengthened. Maria Stockhaus, with whom I had an interpellation debate a while ago, reported on the basis of a consultant's report – I think it was, but I'm a little unsure there – that there are different reasons for choosing to establish direct lines. One question is: how big is the basis? The second is: how much is the transfer traffic? Now Hans Wallmark and Edward Riedl do not have the opportunity to answer, but what the Moderates need to consider is whether the base and transfer traffic increase or decrease and thus whether the conditions for getting more international direct connections at Arlanda are increasing or decreasing if you move from Bromma to Arlanda. As a pragmatic social democrat, I think we need to examine the conditions and look at the possibilities. I see the logic of it, and I say as a wise Member of Parliament from the Kalmar region: It is not absolutely crucial which parish in Stockholm they land in, but the important thing is accessibility to the Stockholm region. I think it will be crucial. However, the Moderates are welcome into the discussion about the Swedish aviation infrastructure. I think it is important that we are now able to investigate the issue and then take a stand in the autumn about securing the capacity at Arlanda– but also about a possible decommissioning of Bromma.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-72	Madam President, I would like As a result of the ongoing review of national interests, Anders Åkesson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure the needs of the whole country for a developed transport infrastructure. The fact that an installation has been designated as a national interest does not justify the Finnish Transport Agency, the regions or the government to make a different assessment of the need for investment measures by a particular transport facility. It is the function of the plant in the transport system that governs its standard and design. Stångådalsbanan is an example of infrastructure that is important for both regional and local development. The financial planning of infrastructure measures is not affected by whether an installation's status as a national interest or not changes. The Swedish Transport Agency has the Government's mission to promote good accessibility throughout the country and not least to take into account the regional importance of the infrastructure, which I assume will continue to be applied. It is the Swedish Transport Administration that specifies and applies criteria for assessing which areas are considered to be of national interest for communications, but no one should hesitate about the government's perception of the importance of regional development. It is important for the government to have good accessibility throughout Sweden. It is necessary for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and to get a Sweden that stays together. The government has recently presented a bill with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure measures: SEK 876 billion for the period 2022-2033. The proposal involves major efforts both to take care of and develop existing infrastructure and to carry out new investments throughout the country.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure. The background to my interpellation is the current review of national interests in the country. It is Boverket who, on behalf of the government, does this. On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to say that this is basically a good thing. It is also the result of the January agreement concluded by the Center Party with the government and the Liberals. It is excellent; 43% of the country's surface area is covered by national interests. As part of this work, the Finnish Transport Administration reviews the facilities of the work that are based on national interests. In my interpellation, I mentioned one example: Stångådalsbanan. It is a piece of railway that runs between two counties in southeastern Sweden. I might as well have taken up the example of Highway 30 between Växjö and Jönköping. These are in themselves road bodies and rail bodies, but they are parts of a larger national system and form together with other parts a whole. What happens, Madam President, if you take out national interest? Or why does one have a national interest at all under a transport infrastructure – an airport, a port, a road or a railway? Well, it is to protect it against other planned interests, such as water, land use, housing production and so on. In his reply, the Minister for Infrastructure refers to a very good proposal that will soon be handled by the Swedish parliament, namely the infrastructure bill. In it we place very high demands and expectations on transport being transferred from road to rail, among other things. In order to succeed, it is necessary to have railway facilities in good condition around the country to make the transfer to. In my interpellation, I have been quite detailed about what I perceive as the Swedish Transport Administration's own interpretation of the commission given by Boverket to review national interests. Boverket has been clear that there may well be reasons to continue to have national interests linked to regional interests – regional roads and railways – while the Swedish Transport Administration is slipping into that interpretation. This creates a situation that creates a great deal of uncertainty around the country, Madam President, because right now municipalities and regions – large parts of society – are sitting and wondering how the enormous amount of resources expressed in the bill that the Minister for Infrastructure has just put on Parliament's table should be distributed in the best possible way across the country. In his reply, the Minister for Infrastructure says it's cool. I do not question Tomas Eneroth's intentions or the conditions for the Swedish Transport Administration to work after them, but in its reply the Minister for Infrastructure refers to the fact that the financial planning of infrastructure measures is not affected by whether an installation's status as a national interest or not has changed. This may be the case, but spatial planning is absolutely crucial if it is even to be possible to complete whether there is a national interest or not, Tomas Eneroth. For this reason, I repeat my question: how does the Government see to protect and safeguard the needs of the whole country in terms of physical – not financial – planning?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-84	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anders Åkesson for having put this interpellation. As a resident in Vimmerby, between Linköping and Kalmar, and frequent train traveler at Stångådalsbanan, I can confirm what Anders Åkesson talks about how worried all Kalmarlänsboror was about the Swedish Transport Administration's decision to remove national interest from the area. The questions came directly. Does this mean that Trafikverket will not spend any money on necessary maintenance on Stångådalsbanan? What does this mean for the extensive work going on in the region to delelectrify the track? Is it even the case that the Swedish Transport Administration is planning to close the runway in the long term? Region Kalmar län has worked intensively for a year with an infrastructure package of approximately SEK 2 billion, which is a major future investment on the Kalmar – Linköping railway line, i.e. Stångådalsbanan. I would like to know, Madam President, whether the Minister for Infrastructure can answer the question whether the Transport Agency has not been aware of the planning that is going on in the region when it makes an unimaginable decision to withdraw the designation of national interest? Or do we intend to deliberately undermine the possibility of this investment in infrastructure? It would mean a great deal to strengthen growth opportunities in south-eastern Sweden. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is whether he has confidence in the Finnish Transport Administration's decision to withdraw national interests. Is the Swedish Transport Administration acting on behalf of the government in this regard?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for a good interpellation! To Gudrun Brunegård I would like to say that I am concerned about her rhetoric and the way in which she argues. To suspect authorities in the way that Gudrun Brunegård does and to fuel anxiety and fear is unusual in this House. She asks: Does the Swedish Transport Administration want to close Stångådalsbanan? Do they do that on behalf of the government? This is a sort of argument that I do not recognize in this House. The Government governs through infrastructure proposals, and the Riksdag does so with laws. Trafikverket is an authority that has to deal with questions about national interests. As it says in the answer, it is very clear that it does not matter whether an activity is a national interest or not for what efforts the Finnish Transport Agency should make for maintenance or for other financial investments. I am concerned about the line of argument. If you want to score points at home, there are, if I'm going to be really honest, other ways to argue. In fact, there is something important in what Anders Åkesson points out. It is true that it does not matter to Trafikverket's financial contributions whether an activity is a national interest or not. I believe that Anders Åkesson and I agree that greater efforts are needed in the Swedish rail system. It must be maintained in order to secure capacity. New investment needs to be made in order to strengthen regional labour market commuting. In the national plan, the government will return if special efforts are to be made on the Stångådalsbanan, Tjustbanan, Coast-to-Coast track or other parts. We point that out at such a time. The truth is that we now have more resources than ever to do so. There are SEK 876 billion in the infrastructure bill, i.e. close to SEK 900 billion. This, of course, creates good conditions for large investments. However, it is important to remember an interesting wording in my view when the Swedish Transport Administration discusses the criteria: a focus on long-distance transport and a coherent system should mean that a railway regional function should not be the sole basis for national interests. This is true. I believe that both Member of Parliament Åkesson and I have encountered this several times. One cannot only look at the regional function, but one must see its function in a coherent system. It can even speak to a certain railway section or to the advantage of a road if it is perhaps of less importance regionally. As part of the whole, it can have a very great significance. There are many good examples of this. The traffic from Värmland to Norway is one of these. The population base may not always be the best, but out of national interest it is really important to strengthen the capacity there. I want to be as clear as I can without government control of the Swedish Transport Administration. I'm not allowed to do that as a minister. Yes, it is very important to look at the regional importance of the facilities for the labour market region. It is in Trafikverket's mission to generally strengthen not least regional labour market commuting. And yes, I will be careful on the part of the government to give priority to efforts that can strengthen and broaden labour market regions when we specify what efforts are to be made. This is needed in a large country like Sweden. It is also necessary for us to have better conditions for climate-smart travel, whether in Kalmar County, Kronoberg County or elsewhere throughout this elongated country.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-98	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, for your answer. The origin and source of my interpellation was not really the infrastructure bill or the traffic planning, but it was a parallel event. The Boverket had, on behalf of the government, reviewed the national interests, which cover more than 40 percent of the country's surface area. In my work, I often meet councillors, regional councils and other people who have trouble with the fact that such a large part of the country's surface area is made up of national interests. Quite often the interests of land use collide with national interest, which is huge and strong. But I can assure you, Madam President, that I have never met a chairman of the municipal board or any other person anywhere or at any time who has said that national interests under highway 30, Stångådalsbanan, highway 125 or any port would be a problem. On the contrary, every chairman of the municipal council, man as a woman, in the north and south, in the east and west, knows that it is an extremely strong protection for functionality in the area. It could be a railroad, a port or something else. Therefore, the slide in Trafikverket's interpretation of Boverket's instructions for the National Interest Review becomes important. It is perceived, Madam President, as a slip when the Finnish Transport Administration interprets the regional significance more mildly than what Boverket does in its instruction. Thus, thoughts and concerns arise around the country. In particular, if this happens in the context of a great deal of resources being invested for some time in maintaining and building new transport infrastructure. Once again, thank you for your answer. Tomas Eneroth focuses on financial planning. That is quite correct. But the Government also knows what the consequences are if you are to rebuild highway 30 between Växjö and Jönköping to a two-plus-one road if there is no national interest under the road. The road to plan maturity, implementation, will be infinitely more complicated. It could be Stångådalsbanan, as mentioned. If the part of the Swedish railway network – or wherever it is in the country – is to be equipped, it means cornering, meeting tracks and so on. If, Madam President, there is no protection of national interest, this is – and it is very easy – against land interests, water interests, housing interests and so on. For this reason, the signal system is very strong. I am sure that this review will take place with the best ambition and that it is fundamentally sound and sensible. But to snatch national interest from a number of regionally very well-acclaimed and in a national system very important infrastructure elements is deeply unfortunate. It is particularly so, Madam President, if we are to be able to implement economic governance towards lifting more freight traffic but also passenger traffic from road to rail and shipping. Then politics cannot endorse it and the system can cut the conditions for it.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-105	Madam President, I would like It is sad that the Minister for Infrastructure does not take my questions seriously. These are not questions that I ask to provoke or take some points of my own in the county, but they are questions that actually circulate and are discussed in Kalmar County after the announcement of how the Swedish Transport Administration views national interests. It is a sincere concern that is based on the fact that Kalmar County has been last on the list of allocations of funds for maintenance, rehabilitation and renovation over the last 20 years and so on of the railway and road network. You feel that you're trying to speak and make your case, but you're not getting a hearing for it. There is no reason to use any overtones when it comes to this, but that is how you experience it in Kalmar County. And as a representative there, I see it as my duty to convey it to the Minister. But I am pleased that the Government is talking about seeing the whole of the system, because we have an overloaded rail network today. We are not getting all the traffic that we would need, and then it is important to maintain and maintain the regional routes, which can relieve freight traffic and so on. Then it also needs to be directed to it. Member Åkesson explained earlier here the importance of maintaining national interest in order to be able to take the necessary measures in this area. I would like once again to express my hope that the Government will ensure that this is indeed the case.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-109	Madam President, I would like First I turn to Gudrun Brunegård. There is, of course, an obligation to represent one's constituency. But a Member of Parliament also has an obligation, I think, to consider for himself the wisdom of the statements you hear and to find out whether there is a factual basis. If the Member of Parliament now suspects that the Swedish Transport Administration wants to close Stångådalsbanan on its own initiative, the Member of Parliament can ask the Swedish Transport Administration that question and have a dialogue locally instead of saying that the government would deliberately do something like that. I think you have to be careful. We have a mandate as Members of Parliament, as Ministers of State and as politically active to increase people's trust in authorities, in democracy, in politics and in how it actually works. It's about where you can find out the facts and what the basis for decisions are. I think a good example is today's interpellation debate. It is based on a memorandum that has been compiled at Trafikverket and a legitimate concern for development and a discussion: How should this be interpreted? I will answer the question from Anders Åkesson. Of course, there is a risk of conflict. I believe that everyone recognises or can see this when Boverket gathers the authorities to have a common view of national interests and the concept of national interest. It is in everyone's interest, given how difficult it is to predict, to ensure that the flora that has existed in relation to the concept of national interest can be evened out. But no one should doubt that it is extremely urgent on the part of the government to ensure that this should not be a way of reducing the conditions for regional investment, for proper planning work to strengthen local and regional infrastructure and for expanding labour market regions. Sweden is in great need of this. And then, of course, it should be an important starting point when the authorities are now working together to clarify the concept of national interest. Will there be reasons for clarification, I very much hope that the authorities responsible for this will do so. If there is reason for the government, when the authorities have completed their mission, to make clarifications, I will be happy to take part in that discussion. But right now it is the authorities who have the task to work on the clarification of the concept of national interest. But perhaps the most important point in this discussion is: Regardless of the precision of national interest, it is incredibly important that we have high ambitions to secure infrastructure in the country. It is about seeing that this can happen in both urban and rural areas and that we provide good planning conditions for the state but also for municipalities and regions and provide resources so that this can be done. With the infrastructure bill that we have just presented and which is now on Parliament's table, it is almost SEK 900 billion. It provides good conditions for improving infrastructure in the country. It remains to be seen whether it will ultimately involve new investments or more object-driven investments on Stångådalsbanan, Tjustbanan, Kust-to-coast-banan or on road 30, road 27, road 23, or other in Småland, in Kronoberg County, Kalmar County and Jönköping County. We in the government will come back to this after a basis from the Swedish Transport Administration when we decide on a national plan. But we're going to make a big effort to maintain. We will ensure that we have good efforts for trimming measures that secure the capacity. It's incredibly important. And the Stångådalsbanan has an incredible importance in the region. Not only has Anders Åkesson, but also many other politicians in Kalmar County, testified to me about this. Of course, I will bear this in mind when we discuss the priorities ahead.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-118	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good dialogue on this issue, Minister. I feel that the Government understands the issue and the need for economic and spatial planning in order to carry out the good intentions expressed in the bill that will be a billion higher each time the Government talks about it. It's in the order of 800 – 900 billion – it's quite correct – depending on how much co-financing it is. That's good. I would just like to reiterate, Madam President and the Government, that I am convinced that not only I, but also the Government, have met with very many presidents of the local government, mainly, and business representatives who often raise the issue of national interest and the conflict that it represents in terms of spatial planning in a municipality, a region, a country or an activity. But I have never actually met anyone who has complained about it when it comes to transport infrastructure. Therefore, the removal of a large number of infrastructure facilities across the country seems a little unnecessary and difficult to understand. But I feel that the Government understands the issue, and I am absolutely convinced that the Government will follow it very closely and take it with it. I would therefore like to thank you for the opportunity to intervene.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-121	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Åkesson. I will follow this matter closely. Similarly, I am convinced that Anders Åkesson will ensure that I follow this issue closely. We have a common interest. Basically, the prerequisites are to actually improve the regional infrastructure, whether it is in beautiful Småland or in other parts of the country. Sweden needs it. We need to invest more in infrastructure. The infrastructure bill of nearly SEK 900 billion is the largest ever, and this means that we have good opportunities to improve the infrastructure in the coming years.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-123	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me what measures I will take to give the tourism industry reasonable planning conditions and Sweden's families the opportunity for cultural experiences under infectious conditions in large theme parks with outdoor seating. The Coronapandemia affects the entire community. The restrictions and general advice imposed on covid-19 have had a negative economic impact on, for example, the cultural sector and the tourism industry, and resulted in considerable restrictions on access to cultural experiences. In order to facilitate the planning of events, the Council has recently put forward a proposal for the introduction of support for the organisers of events involving the State representing part of the financial risk if the event cannot be carried out or has to be substantially limited as a result of restrictions on events due to the dissemination of covid-19. D a new event support is one of the measures the Government intends to take in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement that the Government should urgently return to the Riksdag with proposals for a guarantee support for culture and sport. In addition to general support for jobs and entrepreneurship, the Council has already provided specific crisis support to the cultural field. Crisis aid has been of great importance and has contributed to the survival of these activities. The government strives to be able to open up society more as soon as the contamination situation allows. Throughout the crisis, we have been clear that constitutional rights and freedoms should not be restricted longer than necessary. The government is continuously monitoring developments and also has a close dialogue with relevant actors in the cultural sector, the sports movement, civil society and the tourism industry. In February, the Government referred proposals for a new regulatory framework for general meetings and public events. The framework includes different participation ceilings depending on whether the event is held indoors or outdoors and together with the Swedish Public Health Agency's upcoming regulations constitute important tools for a gradual re-opening. The Swedish Public Health Agency has also made suggestions on how a gradual increase in the number of participants could be based on different levels, based on the spread of infection in society and the burden on health care. On 22 April, the government announced that it was waiting to move forward with the first step with new rules for public gatherings and public events at the Public Health Authority's advice. The Public Health Authority considers that these rules can provisionally enter into force in mid-May. This also requires, however, that the epidemiological situation allows it at that time.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-127	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Astrid Lindgren's World in Vimmerby is appointed year after year as the main destination for tourists with children. It is also the hub of an extensive tourism industry that affects the entire northern Kalmar county, large parts of Jönköping County and also Östergötland. Hundreds of companies in the area build their entire economy on the income they get during the three summer months when half a million visitors need night accommodation and somewhere to eat and want to visit some other nice destination while they are in Småland. This also applies to some small shops and a little larger stores. The Government's response contains two different tracks. Among other things, it is about the support that the government provides to vulnerable industries. It has indeed alleviated the effects and helped many companies to survive. But it's not exactly right. The effects of last summer's restrictions led to an over-interpretation of the restrictions by the Police Authority, and Astrid Lindgren's World closed after just 11 days of being open. It affected the whole district. The tourism industry was not affected so much and with such a big tap in any other municipality throughout Sweden. At that time, it was little comfort that the appeal made to the Administrative Court concerning the decision of the Political Authority was won. Then the damage was already done. Many of these companies that depend on Astrid Lindgren's World receive their business support calculated on the revenues during the spring months, and many received very small amounts. The crisis support that Astrid Lindgren's World received as a cultural sector dampened their losses so that they had the opportunity to overwinter. However, if there is no clarity, it can continue to affect the peripheral industries of a wide range of other businesses in the countryside. Then I'll get on the other track. We are committed to ensuring that the spread of infection does not increase. However, when the Swedish Public Health Agency considers that sitting cultural activities outdoors have the lowest risk of spreading infection, this, combined with the government's response last week, provides a reasonable basis for planning. But there are still uncertainties. Astrid Lindgren's World is a theatre park. There are seven scenes scattered around an area corresponding to 22 football fields. In consultation with the County Administrative Board, it is now planned to open these scenes where you will be able to have assigned places for each company with infectious distance. But there are two of the scenes, for Villa Villekulla and Katthult, which are built for 2,000 sitting spectators. There could well be more groups of up to 600 people in total and still be able to keep a good distance between the places. For what does it say that it is precisely 500 that is the optimal balance? In addition, Astrid Lindgren's World ends up between two different regulations. Compared to the amusement parks, the calculation is made per square metre. However, the 180,000 square metres of Astrid Lindgren's World are not taken into account, but are calculated on the basis of the number of scenes. I wonder if, in future updates of the restrictions, the Government can, for example, allow the County Administrative Boards to make assessments based on the conditions of each individual activity.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-134	Madam President, I would like I thank Gudrun Brunegård for this question. I would like to begin by saying that I very much share the concerns expressed by the honourable Member about these activities and I am also concerned about the activities. If you take Astrid Lindgren's World as an example, it is clearly a destination that has a huge impact on the local community. And I know it was a very tough summer last summer. I'll start with the restrictions. It has been a rather trivial journey from having the old law of order that made it very unfortunate last summer. I think we all agree that it was not the conditions for the activities to keep a distance that were involved, but the activities that were then included in the regulation in the Order Act. Unfortunately, the pandemic has also continued to wash over our country. We have had a second wave and a third wave, which has meant that the accurate regulations have not yet been in place. We have almost daily contact with the Public Health Agency from the government so that we can make this decision as quickly as possible. What has happened since I gave this reply to Gudrun Brunegård is that last week the government presented an updated proposal on this, which has listened to the referral points and developed a further provision just for sitting outside. There it is possible, in accordance with the first step, to receive up to 500 people. I would also like to emphasise that the idea behind this is that the Public Health Agency should supplement these ceilings with regulations that could, for example, be about distances between seats and how many people can sit in company. This means, in fact, that the nature or surface of an arena or a premises will be able to influence how many people you can take in because distance requirements must apply. Then I would like to answer Gudrun Brunegård's question. Of course, there are a lot of facilities that will be able to receive more audiences step by step. We are hopefully going this way now with the vaccine, and I think we are all looking forward to such a development. But this really is to be seen as a first step and in a situation where there is still a very large spread of infection. The Public Health Agency has submitted proposals on the participation ceilings that could apply at three different levels of infection transmission. And this is what could apply at the highest level of transmission of infection, as proposed by the Public Health Agency. Then we will all see how we can step by step take further decisions to open up to more and more audiences, as the contamination allows. I would also like to comment on what Astrid Lindgren's World is. It is a combination of several different activities. What will happen once the decision on the more accurate rules is made is that restaurants in Astrid Lindgren's World will be regulated according to the Restaurant Act. Theatrical activities will fall within the scope of the public rules. But the event park itself will be subject to the same rules as other amusement parks. Then we come from the difference that prevailed last year – that it was about how to assess what kind of park it is. As I understand it, there will be different regulations for the various parts. I think that will be good – then we will end up in a more logical situation, and there will not be too large differences between different parts of the business.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The last part in particular was very clear. I spoke to Astrid Lindgren's World CEO today in the morning. There they had only understood the part about the theatre and the different scenes. Of course, it is planned to have a smaller audience at the smaller scenes so that it will be possible to keep a good distance so that all visitors can be safe. On the other hand, it had not been understood that there would be the possibility of combining the different legislations and regulations. That is a very welcome message. You've experienced that you've been squeezed between different rules, and then you end up in the smallest hopper, so to speak. This provides completely new possibilities for planning for the summer. I would like to mention an example of how badly it hit last summer. On very short notice, Astrid Lindgren's World had to be closed, and this affected all the industries. I know that Vimmerby Camping lost 83% of its income because of this. It is not easy for new entrepreneurs who have enthusiastically taken on a big mission and want to do something good about it and suddenly see the whole foundation pulled away. But what the Government is saying now provides more opportunities to plan and perhaps repair some of the damage from last year. I know that Astrid Lindgren's World last year said that the losses caused by last year's closure corresponded to the total profits over a ten-year period. It will take time to repair this. We have a very difficult situation. We agree that we must deal with the pandemic with great respect and caution so that we do not over-extend the care system and so that we can maintain as healthy a population as possible. There we find ourselves in the balance between the mental ill health that many experience due to isolation and the evidence-based benefits of cultural activities and cultural experiences, as well as outdoor experiences. And the combination, with cultural experiences outdoors in the beautiful Småland environment, is very good. I would once again like to thank the Government for the information and interpretations that the Government has given on the basis of the discussions in the Government and with the Public Health Authority. And I would like to conclude, Madam President, by welcoming the Government to Vimmerby and Astrid Lindgren's World when the baby is big enough to appreciate Pippi and all the others.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-148	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for that invitation! I visited Astrid Lindgren's World as a child myself, or I was well in my early teens and had my little sisters in drag. I also thought it was very fun to be there. Astrid Lindgren's World is an amazing environment and, as I said, has great significance for the local tourism industry but also as an employer for many cultural creators. Many in Swedish performing arts have taken their first steps on the type of outdoor theatres that Astrid Lindgren's World is a very fine example of. Gröna Lund is also such an example. When the new regulations come into place, there is an opportunity for Gröna Lund to be open in the same way. The regulation applies to persons per square metre of the area of the amusement park itself. But also at Gröna Lund concerts and the like are arranged, and then the rules apply to the audience. I would like to emphasise once again that the contamination situation is still very serious. We are monitoring developments all the time, and I very much hope that we will be able to launch the new rules as soon as possible. It is ultimately a matter of activities that can be carried out in an infectious manner, where we know that we have organisers of both sporting and cultural events and also other types of public gatherings that are experts in organising and really know this. This first step should not be seen as a major step towards re-opening. It will offer relatively limited opportunities. But it is now about the spread of infection. We are now continuing with the vaccination in the same way that we have started. Spring and summer bring warmth. Looking back on last summer, we see that we then had a rather drastic reduction in the spread of infection. In that case, I hope, of course, that we will be able to take further steps. I would also like to comment on what Gudrun Brunegård is talking about and which I think is so important: the long-term perspective of recovery work. Before Christmas, the government appointed a re-launch investigation for culture, and I know that several major municipalities have also done so, including Stockholm. The aim is to look at what efforts are needed to enable the cultural sector to both restart and recover in the long term and, of course, to develop in the long term. I say in all different contexts that it is so important that we politicians of all different colors now realise this need. We will have to support culture, and certainly many other industries too, for quite a long time to come. Unfortunately, we see how cultural creators leave the sector, self-employed people are having a very difficult time and the institutions are struggling hard. I believe and hope that there will be a huge craving to enjoy live culture again. There are probably many of us who have gone to the world of literature, to the streamed film or comics, and to the music we can listen to at home. But it is quite different to experience culture live, and it also has enormous significance for our society. That is why I am also pleased with the commitment in this House, including on regulatory issues. I think it is important that we discuss this forward when it comes to the gradual reopening. Last week, the Government commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to deepen the analyses it has already produced so that we can take these steps as transparent as possible. I know that this is important for the actors, and it is also something that we are constantly discussing with them.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your commitment to the cultural sector! Astrid Lindgren's World is an amazing place, as the Government itself has experienced. It has developed quite a lot since then, in recent years. It was a vitamin injection when the municipality could sell it to Astrid Lindgren's family. A municipality should not engage in such activities; it was an emergency solution in an acute economic crisis. Now the park has about 500 seasonal workers. A large number of young people in the area have this as their first place of work and train themselves in meeting times, taking responsibility and managing finances in a cash register, for example – not to mention all children's actors and adults. On top of that, they have about 50 year-round staff. As I said, this gives rings on the water and affects the entire area, at least within a ten-mile radius. Even in Jönköping, Växjö and Linköping, the hotels announce that it is a good distance to Astrid Lindgren's World. So it's an engine for the whole district. This is a very welcome message from the Government; I would like to thank them once again. I believe that this will nevertheless provide security when planning, with responsibility for the most strictly withheld spread of infection possible and with an increase in the number of vaccinated. In fact, as a nurse myself, I am helping to vaccinate to raise the number a little. With this, we can hopefully look forward to the summer with quite great confidence.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-161	Madam President, I would like As I began by saying, the government strives to open up society more as soon as the contamination situation allows. We have also been clear that constitutional rights and freedoms should not be restricted longer than necessary. I am very pleased that last Friday we were able to send out the proposal on some updated rules for general meetings and public events for consultation. If the infection situation and the state of health care permit it, the proposal is for the new rules to enter into force on 17 May. I would like to emphasise once again the importance of our now planning ahead. The mission that the Government gave the Public Health Agency last week to further develop and concretely implement the conditions and proposals for disease protection measures in the future is important, because transparency is something that is in demand. The pandemic does not always enable you to know things well in advance, but the more you can plan, even if it is not decided yet. I also hope, of course, that the event support that we are now working to design and launch as soon as possible will facilitate a reopening and to dare to plan activities. This is, of course, part of an answer to Parliament's announcement, which I think demonstrates the broad commitment that exists to the survival and re-launch of culture. I can conclude by saying that I am looking forward to a continued dialogue with cultural life, the sports movement and the event movement, which is also a very large part of the tourism industry in our country, but also with the other parties in the Riksdag on how we can continue to secure a vibrant cultural life throughout the country.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-166	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson i Linghem has asked me if I see that there may be problems when a state authority is going to make qualitative assessments of media content, such as assessing whether they are disinformed, and distributing media support thereafter and how I intend to act to counter these problems. He has also asked how I intend to act to ensure that the current regulations do not adversely affect media freedom in Sweden. The aim of media policy is to support freedom of expression, diversity, the independence and accessibility of the mass media and to counter harmful media influences. The combined press and media support is a central part of the government's media policy. It is a broad political agreement that underpins the purpose of media support. Media support will strengthen democracy by promoting public access to independent news media throughout the country through a variety of public news media with high quality editorial content. The ambition is that media support should be allocated on the basis of criteria that are objective. However, in a changing and largely digital media landscape, this is associated with difficult trade-offs. It is the Swedish Press, Radio and TV Agency that is responsible for distributing media support. The economic development of the media sector, and especially the newspaper sector, has led to an increasing need for support in the sector. This also means that applications for different aid, not least the general editorial support for media support, are estimated to exceed the available funds on the grant. The Authority has assessed the need for regulations to develop transparently the basis for assessing and prioritising applications for non-right-based support within the press and media support system. Madam President, I would like I understand the principled approach and concerns expressed by the media industry in their referrals. I welcome the debate that has taken place and the fact that work on the regulations has taken place in an open process. The final provisions have been affected by the fact that stakeholders have had the opportunity to express their views at an early stage. The Government has already announced that we will follow the development of press and media support to ensure that the support is effective and effective. This work should also analyse the impact of the Agency's new regulations and whether the regulations on which the press and media support is based are designed in the best possible way.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-172	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Amanda Lind for her answer to the interpellation. I have put this interpellation to the Minister because I am concerned about the new controversial provisions for media support. Now we have a situation in Sweden where a government agency, as a result of the government's policy, will prove editorial content in the media. In this case, it should be tested whether the media are disinformed, misleading about science and so on – this should not be allowed for those who want to receive media support. As I see it, there are major problems with this, both on a more principled basis and in terms of the practical consequences of it. The Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency's new regulations have been developed on the basis of the media support regulation for which the Government is responsible. More specifically, it has wanted to interpret a wording in the regulation that deals with those who want to receive media support – it should be general news media with high quality editorial content. That is why the issue is topical here today. I have noted that Amanda Lind has repeatedly pointed out in the Riksdag that it is a broad party political agreement that forms the basis of media support and its aim of strengthening democracy, but that is not the whole truth. It is not established between the parties that authorities should in and truth-proven editorial content in the media as at least now appears to be the case. Our debate here today can well be said to be proof that there is not really parliamentary agreement on this issue. We think that these regulations are very bad. They threaten rather than strengthen freedom of the press and of expression. A wide range of media and consultation bodies are also on the same track. Madam President, I would like In fact, I think it's crazy that a state authority should sit and decide what is misinformation. This cannot be done objectively. We can see, of course, how the debate has changed in the media on, for example, the issue of migration. Not long ago, there was a compact consensus among the media that this was a fantastic economic gain for Sweden, despite the fact that there was research that pointed to the opposite. Now, however, there are quite few media that say it – the wind has turned, one might say. Have these media been disinformed? Have they misled about science? When it comes to science, different researchers often land in different conclusions. How can you determine who is misleading? With these new regulations in place, Amanda Lind, and now that we see what interpretation the authority has done based on the regulation and when it opens up for arbitrary and truth-testing of editorial content, would it not be better if it were instead more objectively measurable criteria that were the basis for the distribution of media support?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-180	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat what I said in my reply: there are, of course, important questions of principle that have been raised in this debate. The purpose of the media support, from the government and the parliamentary parties that made decisions on it, has never been that this should apply when the support is then distributed. What is defined – the things that are already used as conditions for media support – are the proportion of editorial content, self-produced news coverage and review, and that you have your own title and own resources and follow good media ethics practice. It is also a question of publishing regularly a certain number of times a year – this has been adjusted during the pandemic to give a little more opportunity – and has good user guidance. What I think we need to have as a basic premise in this debate, or rather in this discussion, is that as long as we had a pre-support which was basically just about providing support for physical editions, it was very easy to count the number of subscribers and the degree of household coverage in one area. This was good; Sweden's pre-support has served Sweden very well, I would say. But in the new world, as more and more publications and subscriptions take place digitally and more and more people read their newspapers digitally, you have had to find different types of criteria that work in that world. This isn't easy. I just want to say as a starting point that it is not a question of whether or not the regulations are good, just so that we can agree that there is a challenge in this. I have always said, and say it now, that I think it is good to have press and media support that has criteria that are as far as possible objective. That's the ideal. Then there is room for our authority to produce this type of regulation. And I would like to say that this is the Agency's proposal. It is not the government that has actively encouraged or allowed any specific decisions, but this is something that the authority has an opportunity to do. These regulations have been developed and have had an open, transparent process. I think that's good. I have, of course, followed this discussion with great interest. And as I say in my interpellation response, it is also my intention to analyse the outcome. Nevertheless, I can say with some certainty that we will have to make adjustments to press and media support. There is also such a parallel discussion. This is something I have been working on since I took office as Minister of Culture. We have already made several adjustments to deal with the pandemic, we have injected more funds and we will certainly have to do more, precisely because the pre-support in its current form is not working fully in today's media landscape. Now we have the new media support that depends on the availability of funds. That is why the Authority has assessed the need for some kind of criterion in order, if there is a lack of funds, to make a priority. Again, I intend to continue to follow this issue and to analyse whether there is reason to make adjustments. Of course, this is about the regulation that the government is responsible for working out. But it is also, of course, about analysing the consequences of the regulations and how they can affect each other. In the discussions on this, there is obviously a need for broad support in the Swedish parliament.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-188	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Lind, for your answer! I find it interesting that this will be followed by the government. I really think there is a great need for that. However, I think that certain things can be established today, and that is that it is problematic with the wording of the regulations that a state authority should check editorial content and whether or not it is disinformed. Here, I think it is quite easy to state right now that we have a problem, and it is very clear that many actors think so. I think it is a rather bizarre inverse relationship that state authorities should review and control what the media say rather than that the media should review what government leaders say. There's a problem with that. There is a risk now, as I see it, that the media are beginning to self-censor more out of fear of otherwise losing support when going in and looking at who is disinformed or misleading about science. I would say that is quite serious from a press and freedom of expression perspective. Madam President, I would like The referral bodies which had to make comments on the new proposal for media regulations were indeed merciless in their criticism. It was a harsh criticism. If it has been a wake-up call for the government, of course I think it is positive. For example, newspaper publishers strongly rejected the proposal for new regulations for media support and stressed that the state should not test quality journalism. It was also critical of the final proposal and feels that it is difficult, as I am saying here, for an authority to determine what is misinformation. The same is true of the Journalist League, which was very critical. It is believed that the quality of support has historically been more about objective parameters such as the number of journalists employed, the proportion of their own editorial content and so on. The Journalist Association also believes that the proposal indirectly restricts the constitutionally protected freedom of expression in Sweden. It would be interesting to hear how Amanda Lind views it. The publishing club and many other players have also criticized the new regulations very hard. What I wonder now is whether there is a single social player who thinks that the new regulations are reasonable and good. At least I haven't heard or seen one. Madam President, I would like I note that Amanda Lind points out that the Press, Radio and Television Authority has had the opportunity to make regulations, and this is quite rightly the case with the regulation. But now that the authority has received the strong criticism of the regulations, it has been repeatedly pointed out that it is sticking to the regulation. As Amanda Lind rightly said, the government is responsible for the regulation, so now the ball is simply with the government on this issue. My question is: is Amanda Lind prepared to reconsider the content of the regulation that has led to the regulations? I take it you want to look at the question. Or does the government want a system where, in practice, state authorities will dictate editorial decisions to the media? That's the consequence.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-198	Madam President, I would like No, this discussion has not served as a wake-up call for the government. I am very aware of the difficulties with criteria when it comes to press and media support. This is a question I've been working on for a long time. I think that the discussion that has been very good and, of course, all the points that have been made and which I have, of course, taken note of. I think I answered Jonas Andersson's question also in my previous answer, where I said that this is of course something that I will follow and analyse. It is, of course, about what we are going to change on the press and media support side to meet the developments that have taken place in the media sector in modern times. We have presented a string of different kinds of media support reforms in recent years. We abolished producer responsibility for the collection of paper, which was a very important reform in order to avoid new costs being passed on to those media players who are still very dependent on the paper magazine. We lowered the digital VAT a few years ago. We have introduced permanent support, regardless of the pandemic. We have strengthened media support and introduced white-spot support and also specific support during the pandemic. It is also something that is referred to in the freedom of the press index, which actually shows that Sweden still has a top position there and that active media policy during the crisis has saved many journalist jobs and actually strengthened freedom of the press in Sweden. But with that said, there are still things to do, and I will continue to work hard on that. Of course, it also includes looking at the regulation and seeing if there is reason to adjust things. I am concerned that the criteria for media support are as objective as possible. But I just want to say once again that we cannot believe that this is uncomplicated. I have, of course, received the concrete proposals that have come from the newspaper publishers and the like. But it is clear that there is a need for some kind of selection criteria when the state is going to support journalism, and we already have that in the press and media support. Of course, I am striving to use criteria that are neutral in character. I would also like to emphasise that I am delighted with Jonas Andersson's commitment to these issues, because freedom of the press and media is absolutely central. Then, of course, I find it unfortunate that the policy of the Swedish Democrats is to gradually phase out media support. You had in your budget motion a cut in media support. You do not want, as the newspaper publishers suggest, to switch media support to any other support, but you actually want a phasing-out. It would be to pull away the carpet for many journalist jobs and media companies in Sweden.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-205	Madam President, I would like What Amanda Lind says about the policy of the Swedish Democrats is not really the whole truth. We do not want to cut back right here, but what SD has talked about is the operating aid that we want to step down gradually over time. We simply think that we should find new ways forward through technical solutions instead and adapt to demand. That is what has been said from us, so that it is clear. Something that I find interesting about the new regulations is that they came shortly after more alternative media on the right had been granted media support in 2020, which has been highlighted medialy. It does not look so good that shortly afterwards comes the new regulations that you do not get disinformation and so on. I think it is particularly bad if you link it to the problem that we also have with de-platforming. Several media have since they received media support been deplatform and expelled from various social media, such as Youtube and others who in practice have a kind of monopoly position and are a fundamental infrastructure for freedom of expression in Sweden. Such a suspension took place just a few days ago, without any explanation. I believe that deplating is a huge threat to freedom of expression in Sweden and to free media. This is allowed to happen while the government holds its own meetings with the tech giants without reasonable transparency. There is a total lack of interest in strengthening freedom of expression here in relation to the enormous power of tech giants. Is the combination of the regulations, which means that an authority will truthfully test editorial content, and the great wave of deplatforming that washes over Sweden worthy of Sweden and our constitutions, Amanda Lind? And how can the government be credible in pointing out what is happening in other countries when this is happening simultaneously in Sweden?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-209	Madam President, I would like These were very conspiratory words in Jonas Andersson's concluding speech. As far as the media platforms are concerned, Jonas Andersson knows that active work is being done at EU level to find regulation. It is important to both safeguard extensive freedom of expression and increase transparency. These are players in a dominant position, and I take this very seriously, of course, regardless of the ideological colour of the players affected. The issue of transparency, clear terms of use and the possibility of appeal are important issues, which we are also pursuing at European level. When it comes to work in Sweden, freedom of the press and a living media diversity are of course crucial for our democracy. I am pleased that Sweden ends up high, as usual, in the latest freedom of the press index and that reference is made to both pre-support and media support, which has been around for a long time in Sweden and served Swedish media diversity well, and to the government's active work during the pandemic. I am concerned when Jonas Andersson so carelessly dismisses operating aid. We will have to change operating aid gradually, but we cannot throw out the duck with the bathing water. We have made various efforts – for example, strengthening distribution support and producer responsibility for the paper magazine collection – to make it possible in different ways to convert in an orderly manner. After all, operating subsidies play a very important role for many other newspapers around our country. We will handle this in combination with the development of modern media support, which we have already taken several steps towards, among other things, white-spot support and editorial support. We will continue to work with this and not like the Swedish Democrats pull away the carpet for journalist jobs and media companies in Sweden.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-216	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me if I will launch a government inquiry in the spring to develop proposals for collective unemployment insurance, how I believe that the levels of unemployment insurance should be regulated if the unemployment insurance fund is transferred to the parties/trade unions in accordance with the LAS agreement and how I believe the proposal should be financed. Since 2017, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO have negotiated with the aim to revise parts of today's rules regarding security, transition and employment protection. PTK joined the negotiations in 2019. One of the proposals for negotiations was that the parties, in cooperation with the state and in dialogue with the parties in the public sector, should investigate the conditions for a new collective unemployment insurance scheme. The matter is being prepared within the Government Office and the Government intends to return with a statement about the next step. It is also too early to answer Lars Beckman's questions about how to regulate the levels of the unemployment fund and how to finance the proposal.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-221	Madam President, I would like I don't know if that was an answer to thank you for. I note that the Minister simply does not answer the question, and that is worrying. The parties themselves say that they have made a historic LAS agreement that has huge consequences for the Swedish labour market. As I write in my interpellation, the parties have agreed that they want a base plate of 62 000 million, 62 billion, to be used as a buffer fund. It is very much money, and then it would be relevant to know if the Minister thinks it is reasonable and if you intend to set up an investigation. It has also been mentioned in the party agreement that the compensation levels in the unemployment fund should be increased. How does the minister feel about that? Is that reasonable? We have a situation of ostensible unemployment, and later today we will have a debate about the sharp increase in equilibrium unemployment in Sweden. This is 40 000 people, according to Parliament's investigation service. Compensation levels are an important issue for a government, of course for a future government. What do the parties think? I don't know if the minister reads the paper Work. If not, I recommend it. The other day, the headline was "Anger from heavy employers over poor transparency in new las The article states that the Las Agreement affects the whole labour market. However, when it is to be converted into legislation, heavy employers such as SKR and Entrepreneurs have not had any insight into the work. Now comes sharp criticism of the government. ..................................................... Perhaps some people were curious about the Minister's answer today because there is no other way to get any transparency. The Swedish people may have the right to know if the government intends to use 62 000 million in this way. The Minister must be able to say something in order to give some little guidance to Sweden's entrepreneurs, to Sweden's Municipalities and Regions and to those who are curious about how the Minister views these issues. Therefore, I repeat my question: does the Minister think it reasonable to transfer 62 billion and control the future levels of remuneration to trade unions and employers?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-230	Madam President, I would like The intervention is about the future unemployment fund. As my answer shows, the question is being prepared within the Government Office, and the government will come back with a message about the next step. The LAS agreement is a very serious agreement that has been signed by the parties to the Swedish labour market, and it would be unserious for me as Minister of Labour to precede a serious process of preparation. So I am not going to stand here in the speaker's chair today and speculate aloud. It is simply too early to give answers to the questions Lars Beckman has. But we will give answers when we have an answer to give. That is all I have to say at this point.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-234	Madam President, I would like One of the questions that the Minister refuses to answer is this: how should the level of unemployment benefit be regulated if the unemployment benefit is transferred to the parties/trade unions in accordance with the LAS agreement, in the Minister's view? I think it is reasonable for us to have an answer to that question. Perhaps a Social Democratic Minister feels that the words of moderate Member Lars Beckman are not so relevant, but how does the Minister view the widespread criticism expressed in the Work newspaper? The heading is therefore anger from heavy employers over poor transparency in new las The article is about the fact that the LAS agreement affects the entire labour market but that heavy employers such as SKR and Entrepreneurs do not have transparency in their work with the legislation. Anyone who sees this debate can gladly go into Arbete.se, because the article is very readable. I think the Minister should do the same. It is clear here that this is an act of hashish as a matter of urgency. If this change comes about, it will change the Swedish labour market for decades to come, for example by transferring the unemployment fund to the union. However, the Minister must be able to say something more and like this change. How does the Minister view the criticism of the heavy employers' organisations that they lack transparency and influence in this process? This applies, for example, to such an important employer as SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions. It is one of the major employers in Sweden who states in this article that they have no transparency and cannot influence. How does the minister view it?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-240	Madam President, I would like There is currently intensive work going on within the Government Office to take care of the partnership agreement that is historic and that the parties in the Swedish labour market have met. For me, it is absolutely crucial that we have a serious processing process. It is also clearly described in the mission descriptions of the three studies currently being carried out that it should be a dialogue with the social partners. Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is no more than nonsense to claim that this is an act of hashish. Both what forms the basis for what the parties agree on and the work that is going on within the Government Office is very solid work. As a social democrat, I stand up for good unemployment insurance every day of the week. We will also debate it in a later interpellation debate. As I said, I will not precede our preparation in the Government Office on this issue. The government will return with a message when such a message is available.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-244	Madam President, I would like Then let us see what the newspaper article in The Work said about what the parties, especially those organisations that are not part of the Party Agreement, think. In practice, however, transparency has been non-existent, according to Lise-Lotte-Lotte Argulander, an expert in labour law at the Entrepreneurs, who are part of the reference group that would engage in dialogue with the investigation on las and akassa. We have not been able to see draft legislative texts or preparatory work. Nothing. At the two meetings we have had, we have both received a statement of what the parties' agreement contains, which we could have read to ourselves, and a quick review of the changes that will be," says Lise-Lotte-Lotte Argulander. Tomas Björck, Head of Labour Law at SKR, who is part of the same group, is also not satisfied with the dialogue: the parties who do not support the las agreement have not had the desired influence. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like You can't describe it as anything but a hashish when large, heavy organizations publicly talk about in the paper Work that they look at the government's work in this way. But the Minister will have to give a clear and clear message to the Entrepreneurs, SKR and other organisations, such as the Swedish Employers' Agency, about what applies. I am curious about the financial consequences of taking over 62 billion, 62 000 million, and removing the possibility of influencing future levels of unemployment. In addition, the parties have agreed that the unemployment fund should be increased. It can have a radical impact on unemployment in Sweden that one of the important tools is abandoned. Madam President, I would like How does the Minister view the fact that there is widespread criticism from heavy labour market players?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-248	Madam President, I would like Work is in progress. It is a very intensive work that is going on right now. I don't have to go through Lars Beckman to tell the parties. I can promise you that. We have a very good dialogue. The agreement of the parties is historic. When the labour market changes, regulations, our public systems and laws and regulations must also be able to change. We will change them in a way that strengthens and develops the Swedish labour market model. Unlike Lars Beckman, it seems that anyway, I am very proud that we have strong and responsible parties in the Swedish labour market. Of course, that is absolutely crucial. They are crucial to how we manage to get through the tough crisis that we are currently going through. It is also crucial for the Swedish model to continue to develop and stay strong in the future.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-251	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I am going to take any initiatives to change the current regulatory framework for consumer responsibility for shared contracts and, if so, how. He has also asked whether, in my opinion, it would result in a worse working environment if consumer health and safety responsibilities were taken over by construction firms in the case of shared contracts and if so, whether I intend to take any action. Everyone who works in Sweden must have a good and safe working environment. No one should risk life or health because of the job. A systematic work environment work is crucial for preventing ill health and accidents that in the worst case lead to death. Knowledge about work environment is important for reducing work-related accidents and ill health. A good safety culture means that everyone in the workplace is aware of the risks that exist and has both knowledge and willingness to reduce them. Between 2015 and 2018, the Government increased the Agency's funding by a total of more than SEK 100 million to enable the Agency to hire more inspectors and increase its presence at the workplace. As a result of the application, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has employed more than 150 new inspectors and increased the number of inspections. In 2019 more than 8,000 more inspections were carried out than in 2015. Special inspection efforts have been carried out in recent years in some of the most unfortunate sectors: construction, manufacturing, transport and staffing. On a construction site there are almost always several different companies working side by side. This means that work almost always needs to be coordinated so that risks are not created. That is why there are specific rules for the construction site, where more than just the employer can have a certain responsibility for the working environment. A contractor is the one who has a construction or construction work carried out. The developer is responsible for the work environment. The responsibility is, among other things, to ensure a good working environment when the construction work is being prepared and that the work is coordinated during the execution so that the work environment problems do not arise. The developer shall appoint construction work environment coordinators for the execution and design, subject to certain conditions, submit a prior notification to the Swedish Work Environment Agency and ensure that a work environment plan is established and available before the construction site is established. When a consumer orders a construction work from a total or general contractor, specific rules apply. This means that the client's work environment responsibility is automatically taken over by the contractor who does the work, unless otherwise agreed. If a consumer chooses instead to procure several different entrepreneurs himself, the consumer retains the responsibility for health and safety at work. The Occupational Safety and Health Act is a protection legislation, and the Act contains rules on obligations for employers and other safety officers to prevent ill health and accidents at work. The law has an appropriate structure.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-257	Madam President, I would like Let me first say the obvious: I am absolutely convinced that I and the Minister have exactly the same idea that no one should hurt themselves at work and that no one should die at work. I think that there is a reasonableness in having an orderer's responsibility and that the operator who procures something has a responsibility. This differs from, for example, the municipal councillor in Ockelbo, who posted the following on the municipality's official website this weekend: In Ockelbo, Madam President, this approach can be taken as a social democrat. I do not share that view. I'm not sure the Minister does either. The interpellation I have made is about when a home owner or someone who owns, for example, a tenant-owner procures a contract to renovate, for example, his kitchen. Who, then, is best placed to be responsible for the work environment? I think it's one of Sweden's most well-preserved secrets. Just as I write in my interpellation, even Sweden's former Prime Minister, Göran Persson, did not know that he was responsible for the work environment in a shared contract. The interpretation is therefore about who is best suited to take care of the work environment in a safe way. Who has the greatest competence? I will give the Minister four examples, and let us see if the Minister can respond. If you hire a carpenter company, a plumber company and an electrician company to prepare the kitchen at the same time, who is responsible for the work environment? If you hire a carpenter company that in turn hires a plumber company and an electrician company to prepare the kitchen, who is responsible for the work environment? If you hire a carpenter company that in turn hires a plumber company to prepare the kitchen and at the same time hire an electrician company, who is responsible for the work environment? If you first hire the carpentry company and when the carpentry company is finished in the kitchen, the plumber company will hire the carpentry company and when the plumber company is finished, the electrician company will first be the carpentry firm responsible for the work environment. Who stands for the others? I think it got very messy for the TV viewers. And I think it's very messy for the homeowners to sort this out. I'd be grateful if the minister could sort it out. If you think that it is messy, unclear and unclear for the homeowner who is going to renovate his kitchen, it is reasonable to put the work environment responsibility on one of these companies, which of course has good competence and can. I look forward to the Minister being able to clarify the question in my examples: Who is responsible for the working environment?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-267	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that we need to raise the level of knowledge. There I really agree with Lars Beckman. It is quite a mess in the examples he gives here in the speaker's chair. There is a lot of construction in Sweden. There is both large new construction of homes and a lot of renovation of old properties and dwellings. That's good. We need more housing. At the same time, the construction industry is one of the sectors that is really most vulnerable to problems of unhealthy competition and health and safety problems. Last month, the Swedish Work Environment Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the police carried out unannounced inspections at some sixty construction sites around the country at several different contractors. Overall, more than 100 companies were controlled. The result was disappointing. The Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work discovered shortcomings in the working environment of more than half of the companies controlled, and the other authorities discovered significant deficiencies. A total of 110 health and safety deficiencies were detected. This is therefore a real problem. More than one in ten companies controlled had to close down parts or all of their operations because of the severity of the deficiencies that could lead to a risk to life and health. The police checked about 200 people and discovered at least 25 people who had no right to work in Sweden. Nearly 40 per cent of the companies controlled by the Swedish Tax Agency had deficiencies in the human resources holding. These checks demonstrate the need to continue to give priority to the fight against labour crime, which this government has also chosen to give high priority to. In the near future, more than 5 000 joint checks on labour crime have been carried out within the framework of this government mission. Last week, I also met with Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg and Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, the social partners and the authorities most closely involved, to discuss what further efforts we see need for the future. There is a broad consensus among all parties that controls aimed at work crime need to be increased and that a greater focus needs to be placed precisely on raising the level of knowledge among the clients, i.e. consumers' health and safety responsibilities, which Lars Beckman addresses here. The cooperating authorities have therefore been given the task of carrying out an information effort in order to increase the public's knowledge of the responsibility we have as consumers and clients. Increased public awareness of the link between, for example, low prices and the risk of poor working environment can be part of reducing demand for goods and services that contribute to working life crime.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-274	Madam President, I would like Labour crime has been discussed with the Minister in another interpellation debate. We fully agree that in some cases it is completely indecent and pure trafficking in human beings. But this interpellation isn't about that. It is about what is the most effective way to improve work environment responsibility when someone, for example, is renovating their kitchen. I'll take my examples again, and we'll sort this out. I hope I'm right now. If you hire a carpentry company, a plumber company and an electrician company to prepare the kitchen at the same time, you are responsible for the work environment. If you as a homeowner go into Ikea and order a kitchen and then hire three different entrepreneurs, which is quite common, it is you as a homeowner who is responsible for the work environment. If you hire a carpentry company that in turn hires a plumber company and an electrician company to prepare the kitchen, it is the carpentry company that is responsible for the work environment. If you hire a carpentry company that in turn hires a plumber company to prepare the kitchen and at the same time you hire an electrician company, you are responsible for the work environment. If you first hire the carpenter company, and when the carpenter company is finished in the kitchen, you hire the plumber company, and when the plumber company is finished, you hire the electrician company – then it is first the carpenter company, then the plumber company and finally the electrician company who has the work environment responsibility. I think it is clear to everyone that this is more than complicated. Above all, it does not benefit the working environment. The work environment cannot reasonably benefit from Lars Beckman, who does not know anything about electrical work or plumbing, being the work environment manager. I think a lot of people understand that it's better that whoever runs the vvs company or the power company is responsible than Lars Beckman is. True, my best friend is a plumber, so I might be able to ask him for directions, but most may not be friends with a plumber. In order to improve the responsibility for the work environment, it would therefore be good to make it clear that, in this case, it is not the homeowner who should be responsible for the work environment, but probably the companies whose employees work there. I can see no advantage whatsoever in that I, Lars Beckman, who is not an electrician or plumber, am responsible for the working environment if I am renovating my kitchen. I don't see any advantage in that. On the contrary, it would probably be better for the working environment if the professionals who know the jobs were responsible. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what advantages there are of, for example, Lars Beckman, who knows nothing about electricity, vvs or work at high altitude – I know nothing about crafts; I really have my thumb in my hand – being the health and safety manager if I rebuild my kitchen, compared to whether a professional company should be responsible.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-281	Madam President, I would like I think there are more people than Lars Beckman who need to know what responsibility they have as both a consumer and a client. These are, of course, very important issues, and that is also why the government has chosen to give a mandate to our authorities to carry out an information effort, so that we can increase public awareness of these issues. Madam President, I would like As consumers, we also have a crucial role to play in cleaning up working life crime, which we are also talking about here. If the car wash, the cutting and the tyre change cost less than SEK 100 or if the company that replaces your windows takes cash only, it should ring some warning bells. Then it's probably too cheap to be fair. Then we need to opt out of these companies, goods and services. It's very important. Here we have a great opportunity to influence as consumers, but knowledge is of course crucial. When we do not have information and knowledge and are not aware of the risks, there is a danger that we are involved in paying for organised crime in Sweden or that people who live and work here have less pay, conditions and work environment than they are entitled to. The government has significantly increased funds for those authorities that specifically combat labour crime and carry out controls in sectors at risk. Despite all these measures, however, we will never be able to control away the crime of working life as long as there is demand and acceptance. Then it is important how we, as consumers, act, and we also have a responsibility. As long as we consumers look away and think that we are not responsible for the guy or girl who goes on the roof at home where there are no guardrails, the unhealthy competition can continue to grow. Companies with a poor working environment can continue to compete out serious companies, and more workers are at risk of harm. Of course we shouldn't.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-287	Madam President, I would like I do not know if the Minister and I are in the same debate. We therefore fully agree on this with working life crime. I myself have called the Minister to the Swedish Parliament because I think that the government is doing too little and that rogue companies are being competed out. As the Minister says, it is we consumers who have a great responsibility to ensure that we do not wash the car for 49 SEK, cut us for 39 SEK or whatever fear example there may be. But this interpellation isn't about that. It is about who best takes responsibility for the work environment in a shared contract. It is only this that the interpellation is about. I would like to call the Minister more times, so we can continue to debate the fact that the government is doing far too little when it comes to working crime. There are terrible examples of that. This means, for example, when a homeowner buys his kitchen at Ikea and hires an electrician, a plumber and a carpenter. The awareness of the homeowners that they are responsible for the work environment is, I believe, extremely low. I think it would benefit the working environment that the company that comes home, for example the vvs company, has the responsibility for the working environment. Precisely how to formulate the legislation then, of course, the government may make proposals. However, as I understand the Minister, we do not intend to do anything about the issue, which means that we risk continuing to have a worse working environment and a lower level of responsibility for the working environment than if those who are the most competent and knowledgeable actually take the responsibility in which they are both trained and knowledgeable.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-291	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have given our authorities a mandate to increase information efforts in relation to consumer responsibility and customer responsibility. These are very important questions. In this context, I would like to mention that in the health and safety strategy that I was able to present from the government in February this year, I pointed out the issue of advisory responsibility. There should be no doubt about who is responsible for the work environment, whether we work at home at the kitchen table or through a platform. These are, of course, important issues. I would also like to say that we have never done so much work against crime as we have done today. We have never mobilized the power as we do today. It is about the fact that we have major problems with a growing working life criminality. It is not always possible to hear Moderates worrying about the working environment for workers and their safety at work. The winnings are usually superior to that question. I would really like to welcome Lars Beckman's commitment to these issues. This is very important. As I said, we need to ensure that the knowledge of consumers as a client increases.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-295	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what I am doing to reduce equilibrium unemployment. He has also asked me whether I and the government will restore the higher levels of unemployment insurance to the previous levels. Finally, he has asked me how to make it more advantageous to work for the alien. In the wake of the crisis, there has been a marked drop in demand in the economy, not least in the visitor services sector, which has led to serious consequences for jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country. Substantial financial support and early and temporary tax reductions have been implemented to alleviate the negative impact. The unemployed have been given greater financial security and opportunities for transition. The government decided in spring 2020 to temporarily strengthen unemployment insurance in order to strengthen financial security for the increase in the number of unemployed. Notifications reported clearly rose mainly during the initial phase of the pandemic, resulting in rising unemployment. Unemployment insurance is important for the financial security of the individual between jobs, but also for maintaining the purchasing power of society. The temporary increases in both the basic amount and the maximum amount of income-related compensation are valid until 1 January 2023. After that, unemployment insurance will be reformed. The government has taken comprehensive fiscal measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on jobs and entrepreneurship. The local work system has enabled companies to retain staff and avoid redundancies despite reduced activity, which has dampened the negative impact on unemployment. In accordance with the budget bill that started from the turn of the year, more than SEK 100 billion in 2021 has been added to restart the economy, while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. Overall, assessing the reforms will mean that the unemployment rate will be just over 1.3 percentage points lower than if the proposals had not been implemented. This represents about 75,000 more jobs. Many unemployed people lack the skills needed to enter the labour market. More jobseekers need to replenish their skills or learn a lack of skills. The government has taken steps to increase the number of unemployed with educational needs to study. The Government further proposes in the spring change budget 2021 that funds be added to enable more people who are far from the labour market to participate in efforts that lead to work, such as introductory jobs, additional services and matching services. Increased resources for matching services reinforces the work of reforming the Public Employment Service. In order for more job seekers with disabilities to get to work or start studying, the Government proposes increased resources for work preparation efforts. The Government is also working to introduce start-up jobs for newly arrived and long-term unemployed as proposed by the parties. In 2020, the Government commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to implement the intensive year in April 2021. The aim is for the participants to come to work within one year after the start of the intensive year. The focus will be on language, workplace-related activities and shorter education. This is how longer periods of unemployment can be countered.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-303	Madam President, I would like I hope the Government has read the government's spring bill. It states that balanced unemployment will increase each year by 2024 and reach 7% at the end of the forecasting period. It is not surprising that the government will come to that conclusion. It is entirely in accordance with, for example, the report that I ordered from Parliament's investigation service. I asked RUT: Given that you have this unemployment fund and the established way of calculating unemployment – what are the consequences? Well, about 40,000 more people will be unemployed. That is why I have asked the Minister three questions: what is the Minister doing to reduce equilibrium unemployment? Will the Minister and the Government ensure that the temporarily increased unemployment benefit levels return to normal levels in 2022? How will the Minister make it more advantageous to work for those who are excluded? These issues go hand in hand, Madam President. They are also related to a previous interpellation debate I have had with the Government; in that case the Government refused to answer the question, but the parties had agreed that they want 62 000 million in a base plate and that they want to raise the unemployment fund, which will of course cost a great deal of money. Stefan Löfven promised that we would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. He even said: Evaluate me at work! I think the voters should do it. I think the voters should take Stefan Löfven at his word and evaluate him at work, because, according to the latest statistics, we are among the worst in the EU in terms of unemployment. This is deeply worrying, and it is perhaps because, unlike the governments of many of our competitor countries, this government has not had support that has reached companies to the extent desired. I myself have met a great many entrepreneurs in the restaurant industry, the tourism industry and the tourism industry who are deeply distressed by the situation they are still in. For example, the Swedish Agency for Growth has extremely long processing times. Small entrepreneurs have borrowed houses and homes. Bankruptcies are increasing. In my municipality of residence Gävle, long-term unemployment for young people has increased to around 40 per cent. It's a runaway unemployment. Then it seems that the government's answer is increased unemployment. However, it does not help young people who have not qualified into the unemployment fund, although it has become easier and more affordable to enter. The focus must, of course, be on ensuring that we have such good conditions that we can get to work. At home in my constituency Gävleborg, the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen, which the Minister is responsible for, has caused employers, job seekers and municipalities to be absolutely devastated by the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen has left the localities. This means that it is even more difficult to match the right skills to the jobs that exist and even harder to get people into education. My simple question is: what is the single most important thing the Minister intends to do to reduce equilibrium unemployment?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-311	Madam President, I would like First of all, we are in the worst crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. The intervention is also about the unemployment fund. I would like to say a few words about the unemployment fund because we have discussed this issue here before, but then in a completely different context. I see no reason to reduce the levels of benefits that have been introduced into unemployment insurance. They are important to strengthen the financial security of Sweden's employees and entrepreneurs. But they are also very important in maintaining the purchasing power of our society. As a social democrat, of course, I stand up for a strong unemployment insurance policy. Of course, I will fight for an unemployment fund that includes more, with good and good levels of remuneration. It is a policy of which I am proud. Here is a very clear dividing line between the Social Democrats and the Moderates in Swedish politics. Our opinion is clear. Both duty and right shall apply. The labour market must be made available, and jobs must be sought for remuneration. But you shouldn't get poor because you lose your job. You should be able to pay your bills. You're supposed to be able to stay while you're looking for a new job. One should be able to pay the football shoes to the children. The Moderates stick to an idea that the only way to get people to go from unemployment to work is an unemployment fund with bad conditions and a bad compensation. Madam President, I would like Poverty does not make work easier for people. Without it, we need to work together with different types of labour market policy measures, education and people. We are in the most serious crisis in the labour market in modern times, as I said. At Lars Beckman it sounds like unemployment is caused by people being lazy. Let me remind you, then, that it is a virus that has caused this crisis. The crisis is caused by a virus. But even then Lars Beckman is not prepared to let go of his idea that unemployment is due to people not being whipped enough.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-319	Madam President, I would like It is known that the Minister is unanswered when she talks about anything other than what we are debating. But so be it. That was, in any case, a clear message from the Minister. The JÖK parties have agreed that the unemployment fund should not go back to the original level on 1 January. Some may be happy, some may be less happy. When the Minister stands and says that she is proud of the greatly increased levels of unemployment benefit, this means that equilibrium unemployment is increasing by 40,000 people at this level. It is not something that Lars Beckman has made up, but it is the parliamentary investigation service that has come to that conclusion according to the established method that exists. I think the Minister and the Government would be deeply concerned that, for example, 670 000 foreign-born are not self-sufficient. There are 670 000 foreign-born people who are not self-sufficient. I think that the Minister should devote his time and effort to ensuring that those people are employable. First, I'll tell you the obvious. It is always the individual's responsibility to make himself employable. It is the individual's responsibility to make sure to learn Swedish. It is the individual's responsibility to provide education. It is the individual's responsibility to look for a job. What the policy can do is to ensure that there are sufficient incentives to do so. If you look at the evaluations and research available, it is of course the case that if it does not pay to work unemployment rises. That is exactly what the RUT report shows. If it does not pay to work, if the levels of remuneration are increased significantly, the level of balanced unemployment increases. That's what the interpellation is about. You don't have to see that connection. You can deny it. But that is to be against the research that exists and the way in which you count. Then, of course, you should have a remuneration from the unemployment fund or a remuneration that is reasonable. No one's against it. However, if the Minister were serious about what she has just said in her previous speech, she would of course pursue the issue of compulsory unemployment insurance. It is about putting together Försäkringskassan's system with the unemployment fund's system into one. The technology already exists. Then you would have the exact same system. You qualify for unemployment insurance in the same way as you do with Försäkringskassan and your sick leave. But it does not drive the Social Democrats. There is too clear a link with LO, for example. This means that we have a lot of people who in this pandemic got caught up. In my acquaintanceship there are people who discovered that they were unprotected. It doesn't make sense. We would never put people out of health insurance and say: Haha, you were not in the union and you were not in health insurance, so now you get no help when you are sick! We don't have that system. But in the area of unemployment, we do. If the Minister wants to be credible in this matter and in his commitment to ensuring that the unemployed do not end up on a low-cost basis, the issue of compulsory unemployment funds would of course be pursued. One would in any case have an investigation looking at how we could have the same system as the one for sick leave and Försäkringskassan. Then the minister would have been credible. This interpellation is about us having resources for our welfare. We're supposed to have resources to help people. Then every person must work and do the right thing. With the policy pursued by the Minister and according to the government's own budget, there is a significant increase in the level of balanced unemployment when the benefits are increased. I don't think that's the way to use state resources.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-331	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lars Beckman that the individual has a great responsibility to make himself employable. However, I believe that the individual also has the right to receive support in the event that he loses his job or risks becoming unemployed. It's very important. It is part of a well-functioning labour market, and it is basically a welfare policy in this. I am, of course, very concerned about long-term unemployment in particular. There's a risk of it getting stuck. That is also why we are taking very strong action. Lars Beckman gives a very one-sided picture of what the research says. I do not have time here to sum up the whole research debate, but I can say a few things. Firstly, the time of unemployment is affected by the search activity. You should be at the disposal of the labour market, and you should look for a job. It shall not be possible to round those requirements. I think Lars Beckman agrees with me about that is important. What Lars Beckman chooses to completely ignore is that we are making a major reinforcement of the control system within the unemployment fund. You shouldn't be able to cheat on compensation. Nor should you be able to get unemployment benefit without looking for a job. It is, of course, crucial for the legitimacy of our welfare building. That is why we are spending a total of 47 million in the field of labour market policy to combat fraud, mispayments and lack of search activity. Secondly, it is important to have good remuneration levels in the unemployment fund. It doesn't just affect the individual. It affects society, as it helps to maintain purchasing power. Of course, it is not least important during a crisis like now. How many jobs have been saved and created by the preserved purchasing power? How much had the economic downturn intensified if people could not afford to keep the wheels spinning in the economy? Thirdly, unemployment is affected by the number of jobs to be applied for. I am proud of the policy we have pursued during the pandemic. The budget for 2021 means that over SEK 100 billion will be added to restart the economy. That is about 75,000 more jobs. Our policy is a policy for jobs and a policy for security. Unlike the Moderates, we can do both. I'm proud of that.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-341	Madam President, I would like So we have a Minister for Labour in Sweden who is proud that we have unemployment which is one of the highest in the European Union. I hope that the voters will take Stefan Löfven's words when he said: Evaluate me at work! I think I'd be ashamed of myself. Madam President, I would like Gävleborg is a beautiful county with a lot of green industries. There are a lot of people who need to plant and do other jobs. The reality in the county that has the highest unemployment rate in Sweden and has had it for a long time is that the companies do not find anyone who wants to plant forests. Instead, there is widespread labour migration from outside the EU. Why does the Minister think this is the case? I have myself planted forest in Norrbotten. In the Överkalix forests, I learned, 15 years old, to plant the forest. I had to ask at a meeting with County Governor Per Bill : Is it the same way today as when I planted the forest? Well, you have a pole, you step down, you drop the plant in the pole and you push and continue. So there is no need for high-tech education. But in the county, Madam President, where we have the highest unemployment rate in Sweden, companies do not find people who want to plant forests. I find that odd. Nevertheless, we have to deal with the fact that there are high levels of our compensation systems, and it is hard and difficult to plant forests. Then one must reflect on how it is that Sweden cannot solve the problems of labour supply in green industries, for example, while, as the Minister for Labour says, we have a runaway mass unemployment in Sweden. One must reflect on this and relate to reality. When the compensation is increased as much as the government has done, equilibrium unemployment increases, according to the government's own budget. On the contrary, I think it should be reduced.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-346	Madam President, I would like I have, like Lars Beckman, planted forest up in Norrbotten. Only last year I put some plants. I know that it is not a quickfix, but it requires competence and know-how about the forest and what the soil looks like so that you do not nudge the plant on a stone, for example. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. Lars Beckman claims the government is satisfied. We are not in any way satisfied, but it is a very serious unemployment crisis that we are now experiencing as a result of the serious pandemic that we are currently fighting. I would also like to take this opportunity to say something to those who listen to the debate and who are unemployed themselves: do not give up! We see a little light in the tunnel with the vaccinations. We invest a great deal of resources both in labour market policy efforts and in expanding the supply of training. If you have previously considered studying, Madam President, this is a great time to add new knowledge and skills. I would also like to say to you who are listening that there are still many vacancies to look for in the economy. If you go into Platsbanken today you can see that there are over 119 000 vacancies, including in the care of a nurse and assistant nurse. There are also jobs in the green industries, as the interpelletant here mentions. There are jobs in educational work and in IT work, but also in many other important professions such as business salespeople, cleaning and warehouse staff. This is a tough situation. But the future is bright, and everyone is needed in the Swedish labour market.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-351	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what I am doing to stop any abuse at Samhall. He has also asked when there will be a thorough state inquiry to give new ownership directives to Samhall in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement that the government will review Samhall's mission and what concrete measures I want to take to get more disabled in work with self-sufficiency. The government has high expectations of state-owned companies and wants them to act exemplaryly in their work with sustainable entrepreneurship. This obviously includes a healthy and safe working environment as well as good and decent working conditions. Last year Samhall's ownership instructions were revised by the introduction of mission targets for dedicated employees and for the employment rate of employees in the community assignment. The owner conducts an ongoing dialogue on the company's work and development regarding health and safety at work. My view is that Samhall works continuously with the work environment and has a systematic work environment, but with these changes the government will be able to follow the issue better. The government has made a long series of decisions in the process of reviewing Samhall's mission. It is important that Samhall's protected jobs are used for those for whom they are intended, i.e. unemployed people whose capacity to work is so impaired as a result of a disability that the person cannot find another job and that the person's needs cannot be met by other measures. In 2020 Samhall's economic targets have been revised. In the light of proposals in the budget proposal for 2021, an increase of SEK 400 million per year in additional cost compensation was decided in order to make it easier for people with disabilities with reduced working capacity to find a job and to maintain the labour market policy mandate and a sound capital structure in the company. The government has also taken several measures to ensure that the right target group is referred to Samhall. The Public Employment Service has been tasked with reviewing instructions to protect Samhall's work and the definition and target level for priority groups in regulations for 2021. The Agency has also been tasked with reviewing the assessments regarding the presence of a disability that results in reduced work capacity and a task related to situations where people have both a lack of knowledge of Swedish and a disability that results in reduced work capacity. The Government has recently decided on regulatory changes designed to clarify the regulatory framework for the instructions for protected work. The Government has clarified that in order to be assigned to protected work, a person's work capacity should be so reduced as to result from a disability that the person cannot get another job, and their needs should not be met by other interventions. The government has also recently decided to revise Samhall's ownership instructions on several points. It is stated that, in order to enable a broad supply of tasks adapted to the needs of different employees over time, the company should seek business opportunities in a number of industries. It is clarified that an increase in turnover aims to create a sufficient number of jobs. The government also removes the requirement for further structural changes in order to reduce production costs but stresses the value of good cost control. The governance of value added growth is also abolished. Several measures have also been taken regarding the management and follow-up of both the Swedish Public Employment Service's instructions to the company's workplaces and the company's operations. At the same time, it remains to be seen what Arbetsförmedlingen will come up with on the basis of the assignments submitted and if there is any reason to take further action. Samhall is just one of several initiatives for more people with disabilities to get into work. In 2020, on average, more than 65 000 people had employment with wage subsidies or protected jobs with other employers. The Government estimates in the budget proposal for 2021 that the funds for these efforts will increase in the coming years and that it will allow for an increased number of people with salary contributions with other employers. The Government has also proposed funding for 1 000 more people in the contracted work preparation service Introduction to work, which is expected to go largely to people with disabilities. When we reform the Public Employment Service, we want to ensure that people with disabilities continue to receive the support that suits them best. Employment services will continue to play a collective, driving and supporting role in disability policy.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-360	Madam President, I would like I wrote the interpellation after reading a series of articles in Dagens Arbete. Last week, a television show was broadcast that made me deeply upset – and probably also large parts of the Swedish people who saw the same TV programme, Mission review. I get goose bumps out of anger just thinking about the program, partly because of the entrepreneurs being outcompeted by a government company. Which cleaning company in Sweden should be able to resist when the state gives 6 billion to its own company – 6 000 million – to compete for prosperous private companies? It is indecent, Madam President, with such a situation. But what makes me even more upset are all the disabled who actually don't get the help or the job they would like. The third group has the magazine Fastighetsfolken and others rewritten. They testify to the working environment at Samhall. It's obscene. I have received a copy of internal information that went out to Samhall for the mission review program, and this surprises me. There, the press director writes: In the program, our chairman will also answer questions. They have also interviewed the head of the Employment Service and Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. Both of us defend us, it says in parentheses. It's kind of interesting. How did Samhall's press chief know that? What contacts have taken place between Samhall and the Minister? It would also be interesting to find out. The Parliament, the finest political assembly we have, has seen the shortcomings in Samhall. That is why, just as I write in the interpellation, we, the Swedish Parliament, decided that the government should conduct a thorough investigation of Samhall's mission so that the core business is prioritised and the business returns to its basic mission when it comes to people with physical and intellectual disabilities. On 18 December 2019, the Riksdag assumed its responsibility. Why, then, did the Riksdag do so? Well, we got these signals that Samhall isn't working. I also note that after the mission review program, Sweden has sent out a press release stating the same thing: The State, Samhall's owner, needs to decide what the target group for Samhall should look like, commented the first vice-chairman of Functional Law Sweden. They also found that this aid did not work. It would be interesting to know why the government has not taken this issue seriously. Why do you not follow the announcement from the Swedish parliament? Obviously, people get caught up in it. I have been called myself – it's a bit funny that so many people also read the Riksdag website – by people at Samhall who have grinned on the phone and told me how they experience their work environment, the work environment for which the Minister for Labour is directly responsible. This is a state-owned company controlled by the government.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-371	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lars Beckman: the problems highlighted in various reviews must of course be taken seriously. As I said in my interpellation response, which also soon can be read on the government's website, the government has taken a wide range of measures, including several assignments to the Arbetsförmedlingen. However, the announcement has not been finalised, and the government has no intention other than to respond to the announcement – that, Madam President, I want to be very clear about. We will return to the Riksdag on the administration in the usual order by the Government. I also want to say that I feel a pride in Samhall. I have been following Samhall's activities for many years. I have been on many workplace visits and met many employees in Samhall who are extremely proud that every day they get to go to a real job where they get to contribute, where they develop and where they get a salary that they have earned for themselves. Right now there are many critical reviews and reports about Samhall. I welcome the emphasis on problems and shortcomings. If there are problems and shortcomings in the operation, they must be on the table so that we can do something about them. That is the basic principle, and I stand up for it every day of the week – I want to be clear about that. As I explained in my initial reply, we are taking steps to address the various issues raised. It is about the working environment, it is about the instructions, it is about the financial conditions for the company and it is about ensuring that Samhall is active in a wide range of activities. All of this is important for Samhall to be able to offer meaningful and developing jobs where the individual gets a job based on his or her own conditions. If there are problems, they should be addressed, point! But I'm not going to let it get in the way to see that Samhall is an extremely important business that we should be proud of.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-377	Madam President, I would like All people have a working capacity. Then it can be 100 percent, it can be 5 percent and it can be something in between. I think that all people should have the right to a place of work. I think all people should have workmates. I think all people should have a place to go and have a cup of coffee with their fellow human beings. That's the decent thing. So that is not what this debate is about. The question now is what the Minister and the Government intend to do with something that one can think of as a wrecked Samhall based on the working environment. I understand that the Minister does not read the trade union media. I do it regularly; I think the Minister should also start doing it. The news about Samhall is nothing new. Mission review is nothing new. The LO magazine is nothing new. The real estate people wrote a year and a half ago in an article: For several years, the real estate community has reported on health and safety problems at Samhall. Criticism of the work environment has come from different parts of the country, and employees have witnessed, among other things, stress, lack of management and poor matching of work tasks. And in the survey sent by Fastighetsfolk in January to trade unions at Samhall, it becomes clear that work environment problems remain. More than 80 safety representatives and the president of the club have responded to the questionnaire. Nearly half of the trade unions who responded to the survey think that the work environment is poor or very poor. Around a third of people find the working environment acceptable... More than half state in the survey that stress is the most common health and safety problem. Some safety representatives describe that stress is caused by excessive workload and understaffing. Others testify to poor planning and that there are sometimes too few tasks for the staff, which in turn leads to a stressful working environment. ..................................................... And so it goes on in eight more pages. So there is nothing new about Samhall. What's new is that the mission review brought it up last week, in a report that should make every decent person who sees it escape pissed off, in pure Swedish. It cannot be the intention to compete for healthy private companies, price drops and subcontractors because the mission cannot be solved. Nor can Samhall be supposed to be an integration company. I live in Gävle, and you can see physically who cleans at many of the large customers. It cannot be that Sweden has received so many disabled foreign born. Not knowing the language cannot be a disability, Madam President. The problem when you misbehave a business like Samhall is that those who really need Samhall's help don't get it. Those who really need Samhall's help do not get the support they need in the workplace to be able to perform their tasks at a tempo. There is probably a reason why you have a disability, whether it is a muscle disease or something else. And then it was: The parliament has taken its responsibility. On 18 December 2019, the Swedish Parliament addressed a serious announcement to the Government. The Minister says it's not finished. No, the truth is, the minister has done very little. So when will a thorough state inquiry come to give new ownership directives to Samhall in accordance with the Riksdag's decision?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-390	Madam President, I would like As I explained, the government has already taken a number of measures, and we intend, of course, to return in the usual order to Parliament with regard to the whole of the announcement. We are absolutely very serious about the shortcomings that are emerging. It is vital for the government to ensure that they are addressed. As I said, we have already taken a great deal of action. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about what the Samhall model looks like and why it is designed in the way it is. There are many who wonder why Samhall is run in corporate form and with a requirement for return. The idea of Samhall is for people to get real jobs. In many other countries, a path has been chosen with fake jobs where people are passed on. We don't believe it. We want people with disabilities to get real jobs where they can contribute, where they are really needed and where they can also develop. For this to be possible, Samhall must produce what is actually demanded in the labour market. This means, in practice, that they are competing with other operators for market assignments. Those assigned to Samhall have a disability resulting in reduced working capacity. Of course, the work should be adapted according to their conditions. That is why Samhall receives compensation from the state in order to compensate for and adapt the work. Business can never be done at the expense of the employees. It's for them that Samhall exists. And the work should always be adapted to the employees' conditions. Competition with other companies on the market must be fair. That is why there is a requirement for return. It is also important for the company to have an economy in balance over time. But let me be clear: there is no profit being collected. The surplus goes back to business. Some say that it is a problem to have a profit or return requirement at all. I don't agree with that. It is crucial for Samhall to be able to win new assignments so that employees can get real jobs. If we eliminate it then we risk, of course, both causing distortions of competition and that there will be a completely different Samhall that does not offer real jobs. Then there'll be some action, and we won't have it. I don't think that would be the right way, and I think it would be wrong to use the potential of Samhall's employees. As the labour market changes, Samhall must also change. There are those who believe that Samhall's activity in the service sector is by definition a problem and that it should go back to operating in sheltered workshops. I really don't agree with that. The fact that Samhall will provide real jobs where there is real demand also in the service sector is a success factor. The important thing is that Samhall can offer jobs in a variety of industries so that each employee can get jobs that are suitable for them. That is why, among other things, we have clarified the ownership instructions on this point. The proximity to the regular labour market also means that many employees move to external employers each year as a result. I am proud of this model, and I am proud of all the jobs created within Samhall. My ambition as a minister is to improve and develop Samhall's operations. That is exactly what we are doing now through all the missions and decisions that I have presented in my interpellation response to Lars Beckman.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-400	Madam President, I would like We have not yet received an answer to the question as to how Samhall's press chief could send out an internal email to all personnel stating that the minister is taking Samhall in defense of the mission review. It would be interesting to find out how this dialogue has been conducted between the State Company and the Minister. Madam President, I would like I think we need individual support. I think we should link the support to the person who needs it, and the support should go with the person, instead of giving SEK 6 billion to a state company that has had problems with the working environment for many years. This is exactly what the trade unions and safety representatives have written about, and this is exactly what many of the current employees at Samhall are testifying to. I think it is directly indecent that Sweden's disabled people do not get better help than they get from this government. It testifies to a human vision far removed from the Moderates anyway. In previous debates with other ministers, I have presented the RBU's list of 16 cuts that the government has made in the case of Sweden's disabled, whether it is LSS, car support, housing adaptation, additional costs or what it is. The lack of good management of Samhall is therefore entirely in line with government policy. I would have liked the Minister to have taken this criticism seriously. I wish Samhall's press manager had sent out an internal email saying that the minister is deeply upset and will yell at us in the program. In fact, he sent out an email saying the opposite: The Minister will defend us. I think that is quite the wrong approach. And I do not think it shows respect for the Swedish Parliament's announcement that we want a different order, that we want order in this and that we need a solution for Sweden's disabled.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-405	Madam President, I would like Problems and shortcomings are to be dealt with on the table. The government has implemented a long list of measures that I read out earlier that will improve Samhall and that address the issues that are now in the debate and in various reviews. Of course, we come back in the usual order when it comes to the whole and the announcement that we fully respect. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I am proud of Samhall. I am proud that 26 000 people who would otherwise not have been able to get a job get a job through Samhall, and I am proud of the choice that we have made in Sweden to give disabled real jobs and not some passive pretend efforts. Above all, I know that many employees at Samhall are proud to have a real job where they can contribute. Finally, in this debate, I would like to turn to those of you who have a job in Samhall. I know that many of you are proud of your job and that you are proud of the important contributions you can make. You should be able to feel safe when you go to work. You're supposed to have a safe working environment. You should have the right conditions and management to do your job. If there's a problem, you shouldn't feel afraid to highlight them. Talk to your boss, talk to the union and talk to your safety officer! I want you to know that when you go to work, you make a difference. Thank you for your efforts!
i-52ea7b003455b18c-408	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked the Minister for Labour how the Minister ensures that another piece of legislation in this area is indeed justified and how the Minister works to ensure that circumstances affecting that assessment are properly investigated. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government considers it important to strengthen the principle of equal pay for women and men for equal work or work of equal value. The EU's work on gender equality and anti-discrimination complements the Member States' national work in this area, and the government therefore welcomes this work at a horizontal level. Despite action both in the Member States and within the EU, the wage gap in the last decade has changed little within the Union. In the EU, on average, women earn about 1 4% less than men. However, the government considers that the European Commission's proposal for a directive on strengthening the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value does not take sufficient account of the different wage formation models in the Member States and that its design is too detailed and not sufficiently flexible. It is important that the Swedish labour market model is safeguarded. From a Swedish perspective, effective and well-functioning application of existing national legislation, together with joint efforts and collective bargaining solutions, is more effective in preventing and counteracting inappropriate wage differences. The government will therefore actively promote the design of the directive in a way that respects our national system and the autonomy of the social partners. Together with the proposal for a directive, the Commission has presented an impact study. It assesses the administrative and financial consequences which are limited for both employers and the state. The government is sceptical about this assessment and is working in the negotiations to clarify the impact of the proposal. The key starting points of the negotiations are to safeguard the competitiveness and growth capacity of companies and to protect SMEs in particular. The government's position is therefore that the directive should not entail a disproportionate cost increase or increased administrative burden for employers compared to the current Swedish regulatory framework.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-414	Madam President, I would like The Commission has therefore proposed a new legal instrument to reduce the pay gap between men and women. This, of course, sounds good in practice, but there is experience in Sweden that EU legislation in the field of labour market policy can have unforeseen and serious consequences. The Posting Directive and the Laval judgment are clear examples of this. What I want to discuss here today is why the government welcomes a new directive in this area. A presentation memo from the Government Office writes: The European Commission estimates the pay gap between women and men in the EU at around 14%. Of these, two thirds are inexplicable – that is, they remain when other factors have been excluded. So what the government says is that there is a pay gap and that part of it cannot be explained by looking at relationships other than the person's sex. But is this true? The calculation referred to by the government comes from the report A decomposition of the unadjusted gender pay gap using Structure of Earning Survey data from Eurostat, the EU equivalent to SCB. Madam President, I would like This report does not say at all that there is an inexplicable pay difference, but only an unexplained one. There is a very important difference here. A pay difference that is inexplicable, therefore, cannot be attributed to anything other than the person's sex, is a sign that something is not right, discrimination for example. On the other hand, the fact that the pay gap is unexplained simply means that the decomposition analysis, as this type of study is called, has not gone deep enough to get to the bottom and see whether there are wage differences that cannot be explained or not. Examples of factors that have not been included in the analysis are the number of hours worked, total work experience, actual tasks, specialization area, how dangerous the work is, inconvenient working hours, if the person needs a weekly commute, how aggressive the person is in wage negotiations and how long the person has been on parental leave. Eurostat even explicitly says on page 15 that the result 中 does not mean that the unexplained GPG measures discrimination through Indeed, SES data miss some important variables such as the total working experience, which, if taken into account, may change the unexplained gap. ..................................................... Thus, the report explicitly states that there is no inexplicable pay difference or discrimination, which is exactly what the Government claims. And, to be clear, I am not saying that discrimination does not occur; it may well do so. That is not what this debate is about. It is about why the government claims that Eurostat says that there is an inexplicable pay difference when it is explicitly said that there is no inexplicable pay difference. That's a lie. The word now goes to Märta Stenevi. I would like an explanation of why the government thinks it is okay to lie to both Parliament and the Swedish people in the face when it comes to what Eurostat says about discrimination in the EU.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-420	Madam President, I would like I was probably of the opinion that we should be discussing whether another piece of legislation in this area is really justified. But I would like to start by being very clear that it is the government's view that we should protect our labour market model and do so with vigour. This includes, inter alia, the parties' responsibility for wage formation, including individual wage setting, the parties' autonomy and the focus on negotiating solutions. And yes, we believe that the current proposal for a directive does not take sufficient account of the different wage-setting models in the Member States. The wording of the proposal is also problematic in that it is too detailed and not flexible enough. The very high degree of detail implies, among other things, that the current form of the proposal is deemed to have significant administrative and financial implications. In the further analysis currently under way, the impact of the proposal on the Swedish labour market model needs to be carefully considered. The Commission has carried out an impact assessment. It is used as a base, but we see that the base is not enough. The government defends the Swedish labour market model with emphas, which will be the primary starting point of the continued work. We will continue to clarify and analyse the potential consequences of the proposal during the negotiation process. The Commission has stressed that it does not intend to disrupt the Swedish model of wage formation, and this is something we will press for in the negotiations. On the other hand, the Commission considers that there is wage discrimination in the EU and therefore presents this proposal. The Government negotiates to get the proposal drawn up in such a way that it does not interfere with the Swedish labour market model. I'm a little perplexed, though. So is it, Madam President, the honourable Member's view that there is no wage discrimination in Europe? Or is the honourable Member just interested in ensuring that women receive equal pay for equal work? The intention of the directive put forward is the government's support. We think it is extremely important to ensure that there is no wage discrimination within the EU. On the other hand, the design of the proposal, as it stands now, is such that it would rhyme badly with the Swedish labour market model. We will therefore continue to work to ensure that it does not have negative effects on the Swedish labour market.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-428	Madam President, I would like I don't know if the government really listens to what is being said on this side of the podium. So what I said was that this issue is not about whether or not discrimination exists. The question to which I would like an answer is: why is the government lying about what is in the Eurostat report on discrimination? That's what the government is supposed to answer-- she didn't even try. But let's move on. The tool that is being used to push this proposal through is the claim that it is discrimination and that it is the very basis for wage differentials. The government justifies it this way: a Union's work on gender equality, anti-discrimination and the implementation of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal or equal work complements the Member States' national work in this area and is therefore welcomed at a horizontal level. ..................................................... In the impact assessment report, which the Government itself mentioned and which follows on from the draft directive, the Commission states in nine places that it is precisely discrimination that is at the root of the pay gap, despite the fact that the Eurostat report, which forms the basis of the whole act and which it itself repeatedly advises against concluding that discrimination is the cause of the pay gap. On page 11, it says: An intersection of the unexplained Gender Pay Gap as discrimination is not recommended as some other explanatory factors that are not observed in the Structure of Earning Survey – e.g. the number of children and the age of children in a family, staff facilities or negotiating skills – would most like change the unexplained party. The difference can therefore be explained in other ways than through discrimination. As we see it, there is no support in the salary chart that the proposal is based on because it is precisely discrimination that is behind the pay gap. Yet this is what the Government stands and says. The question therefore remains, Madam President: why are Märta Stenevi and Stefan Löven's government lying about what is in the Eurostat report on wage differentials? I think this is the case: the experience of being unfairly treated is an effective way of motivating voters. You can simply get people to believe that they are discriminated against and then claim that it is you who will help to avenge those who discriminate. That's how this ugly game is played, unfortunately. I would therefore like to ask Märta Stenevi a rather simple question: does she see a risk in claiming that a particular study, which explicitly advises against interpreting the result as a sign of discrimination, is in fact a sign of discrimination? I can imagine a couple of risks of acting that way, for example: it can create suspicion in the workplace, it will make it more difficult for women to negotiate on wages if they at the same time think that the employer might try to trick them, it can make women simply turn away from certain career paths and it can increase the mental ill-health of women.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-436	And again, I am not saying that there is no discrimination. That is not what this debate is about. I am sure that is the case, but the question at issue here is: why is the government not telling the truth about what is stated in the Eurostat report? Eurostat repeatedly advises against interpreting the result as a sign of discrimination. The Government and other representatives of the government repeatedly say that the report's results are a sign of discrimination. Why do you think it's okay to lie this way, Märta Stenevi?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-437	I would remind the honourable Member that it is the Swedish language that applies in this House. It is okay to use short English quotations if you then translate them immediately afterwards.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-438	Madam President, I would like I am looking and listening in fascination at the fact that the honourable Member thus assumes that the government would lie about possible wage discrimination and that this would be a way of winning voters and making women feel like victims. I am completely mute, Madam President, in the face of the implicit assertion that it would be an invention that there is discrimination in the EU's wage setting or that the government would deliberately lie about figures in order to somehow gain benefits from this. What if the honourable Member had put the same effort, Madam President, to actually think about what measures are needed to combat the discrimination that exists in the wage market and which has been demonstrated many times both in Sweden and in Europe? And what if the honourable Member had had the magnanimity to perhaps open the door to the need for directives in other parts of Europe to tackle a wage formation that is not equal? Think how much more constructive this debate could have been! However, since that is not where we are, Madam President, I can only say that the government stands by the intention of the directive, that we see problems with the proposal that is put forward and that we will continue to negotiate the directive as far as possible in order for it to fit the Swedish labour market model. We see that the Commission is now saying that it should not have to influence the Swedish labour market model, and that is something that we will continue to support. We do not see, however, that there is a majority in favour of stopping the directive, and that is why the negotiations on its content continue.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-442	Madam President, I would like The Government does not seem to hear anything coming from this side in front of the platform today. I can only repeat what I said. First of all, I am not saying that there is no discrimination, but that is not at all what this debate is about. It is about why a piece of legislation is needed in this area. The government says that it is needed because of widespread discrimination, and it refers to a report from Eurostat. This report says that the result should not be interpreted as a sign of discrimination. The government is lying about what is in the Eurostat report. That's why the government is here. Märta Stenevi said that if Ludvig Aspling could do anything other than point out that she is lying. Yeah, that would be great. I understand that the Government would rather have sycophants standing here and commending her, but that is not why the Swedish Parliament is here. In the Swedish Parliament we hold the government accountable, and I will continue to do so until the day I no longer have a chair here. As far as the issue of a piece of legislation is concerned, we are not closing the door to legislation in the field of labour market policy at all, but we are restrictive because we have a memory. We remember the Laval judgment, we remember the Posting of Workers Directive and we know that the European Court of Justice can interpret acts in a way that is very bad for Sweden. That's why you need to be careful. We therefore believe that there should be no new legislation in this area, unless there is an urgent and well-documented need. The Government is now doubtful about the proposal, but she still defends a new piece of legislation in this area if it changes slightly. The documentation behind the proposal does not say that there is widespread discrimination. Again, there may be. Maybe it doesn't exist. However, the documents referred to certainly do not say this, but the very opposite: that their data should not be interpreted as evidence of discrimination. Nevertheless, Minister Stenevi does this. It's a lie, and I wish you could stop it.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-447	I would like to remind you of the tone of the debate.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-448	Madam President, I would like Sweden is and will be a strong voice for equality, for non-discrimination and for fundamental rights within the EU, and we will continue to be so. The proposal put on the table by the Commission is not what the government would have liked. Now it is important that Sweden is instead an active party to the negotiations in order to work for the directive to be as good as possible because we do not see that there is a majority to stop it. It would weaken Sweden's ability to safeguard our labour market model and undermine our confidence in issues of gender equality, discrimination and fundamental rights if we said no before we have used the negotiating path. In the end, an evaluation of the results will still have to be carried out, and the proposal as a whole needs to be considered. There is nothing to prevent Sweden from voting 'no' in the end if the proposal is not acceptable. We are not there yet, but we continue to negotiate the directive until we know what the end product will be.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-452	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to combat men's violence against women, whether I acknowledge that there are both positive and negative standards among men and whether the government intends to act against the negative ones. Furthermore, Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to combat the culture of honour expressed, among other things, in violence against women. Men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression are priority issues for the government. The Government decided in 2016 on a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, with an accompanying action programme for 2017 – 2020. In accordance with the Action Programme, the Government has strengthened the structures of systematic work and implemented a large number of measures to prevent and combat men's violence against women, both prevention and law enforcement, and to increase support and protection. Among the recently decided measures, the government handed over the proposal for the prevention of violence in close relations in March 2021 (prop. 2020/ 21:163) to the Riksdag. The proposals in the bill mean that the Social Welfare Board's tasks include working to ensure that people who expose or have victims of violence or other abuse change their behaviour. It aims to improve the protection of victims of violence and persons at risk of serious violence by relatives. The bill also proposes a confidentiality-breaking provision for social services and health care in order to provide information relating to an individual or a close to the individual to the Police Authority in order to prevent a serious violence, peace or sexual offence against the related person. By decision on the regulations for 2021, the Government has allocated more than SEK 240 million for the work against men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression and has given several authorities assignments in this area. The legislation has been strengthened in several areas, and on 23 April the government announced further legislative measures. The Government intends to present proposals to the Legislative Council before the summer, which will increase the penalties for serious violations of women's rights, extend the violation of peace, make the anklet a possible first-hand measure when deciding on an extended ban on contact, strengthen penalties for violation of a ban on contact and make it easier to impose a ban on victims of violence on the common dwelling. These are just some of the measures that have been and will be taken. The Prime Minister has also instructed me, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg to step up the work of the Government and propose further measures to combat men's violence against women. There is now intensive work on the new action programme against men's violence against women that the government has previously announced. The measures taken against men's violence against women also include honour-related violence and repression, but there is a need to take specific measures to prevent and combat these crimes. The Government has therefore, among other things, given assignments to the Gender Equality Agency on violence prevention work in honor context, with a focus on boys and young men. The Government has also commissioned Linköping University to carry out educational efforts for the country's child housing activities on honor-related violence and oppression and its various forms of expression, such as child marriage, forced marriage and genital mutilation. In addition, the Government has decided to establish the national competence team against honour-related violence and repression in the form of a national competence centre. Since the early 2000s, lethal violence against women in close relationships has declined from an average of 18 cases to 15 cases annually. Surveys from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council show that the number of cases decreased already in the 1990s compared to the 1970s. At the same time, deadly violence against women in recent weeks has shown that men's violence against women is still a major social problem in 2021. This is terrible and cannot be isolated to deal only with these cases. In the autumn of 2017, the Metoo call was at the centre of the debate. It showed the lack of equal values in society. In a recent report, the Gender Equality Agency has also shown that young men stand out as a group expressing more gender stereotypes and conservative attitudes than men and women of other ages. Generally speaking, young men are over-represented as both perpetrators and victims of violence. According to the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, both international and Swedish studies suggest that young men who agree with gender stereotyped claims about the roles of women and men are more likely to use violence than young men who do not. A report from the Gender Equality Agency from 2021 shows that there are links between certain norms of masculinity and several health aspects, such as aggressive sexual behaviour, myths and notions of rape and contempt for homosexuals, which have negative consequences both for those who express the standards and for other people. The report Men and Gender Equality (SOU 2014:6) states that traditional masculinity norms, which are characterized by empowerment, independence and strength, are often raised as the underlying cause of men's higher mortality, higher risk-taking and violence problems against women and children as well as other men. The study also highlights, however, that there are signs that there has been a positive change in masculinity standards in Sweden in recent decades and that the idea that alone is strong has been challenged. Conceptions of how men are and should be can be maintained by both men and women. Obstacles to behaviour and acts that distance themselves from violence can lie with men and boys themselves and in their surroundings. Thus, efforts to change expectations of men and boys may also need to be directed at women and girls.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-466	Madam President, I would like The debate on men's violence against women has flared up considerably after five women have been murdered in the space of a couple of weeks. Media attention has been evident and in the wake of this also the various political moves. It is a good thing that the debate has been given a new life, because it is an important one, but it is terrible that it took five women's lives to bring it up to date. Political condemnation in all honour, but the important thing is change – that political action is actually taken to prevent crime and to ensure that perpetrators receive the punishment they deserve. Unfortunately, the government parties, which are now seeking media light for their condemnations, have actively opposed political initiatives in this area that would have been a change. In her response to my interpellation, Märta Stenevi presented a series of measures that the government intends to present proposals to the Legislative Council before the summer. These proposals consist of more stringent penalties for serious discrimination against women, a possible first step in the decision on an extended ban on contact, a stricter penalty for non-compliance with a ban on contact, and a simplified ban on contact. This sounds good, but the question that comes up with me is: Why now? Why not now, after more than seven years in power? What is the reason why the government has not acted in the past in this area to strengthen women's security and really punish the men who harm women? Is it, Madam President, because the proposals concerned are new and simply not mentioned earlier in the Government Office? This would excuse the fact that after almost seven years in power, the government is only initiating the work of executing them? No, Madam President, that is not the case. Instead, it is not very flattering for the government parties that there is not only a long-standing and accepted proposal for action, which would be bad enough, but also a proposal for measures which the government parties have actively voted against in this House as late as last year. These proposals could have been a reality and could have protected women today if it were not for the active elections of the government parties to stop them here in Parliament when the Swedish Democrats and others proposed them. Last year, the Swedish Democrats had reservations about violations of peace, about simplifying the issue of a ban on contact, about increased penalties for violations of a ban on contact, about a ban on contact with electronic surveillance after serving a prison sentence, about increased use of a ban on contact with electronic surveillance and about compensation levels. It can also be mentioned in this context that the Green Party has consistently wished to maintain the current regime, in which the men who have beaten, raped or murdered women receive a discount if they have committed many crimes and, moreover, do not earn one third of the penalty for the crimes they have committed against women. Madam President, excuse me, but I am frankly surprised, confused and perplexed that the Green Party and the government are now beginning to talk about standing up to men's violence against women when they have consistently been doing their utmost to combat action in this area for a long time.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-471	Madam President, I would like After all, it takes longer to write a law text than it takes to write a motion. It is also the case that the practice in the Riksdag is that the government parties vote against motions to devote themselves instead to the government's work on proposals. Speaking of proposals, perhaps we can give a thought to the consent legislation that was implemented in 2018 and that the Member's party did not support. What it means is that we now see a much higher percentage of convictions in rape cases. What it also means is a change in the standards from a man being seen as pregnant being entitled to take for himself by a woman, for example by hypothetically holding onto a hotel room and taking a woman on her breasts under the bra, even though she does not want it, to the fact that we now have a standard that says that all sexual acts that a woman, or for that matter a man, has not expressly consented to are criminal. This is a big shift and a big change in the view of men and women and also in the view of the relationship between men and women and how to view sexual crimes. We now also have the hardest sexual crime legislation we have ever had in Sweden, and it is thanks to this government. The proposals now submitted to the Legislative Council have been dealt with by the Government after having been first examined and then written as proposals. I am personally very pleased that they are now becoming reality. But I am also very much looking forward to being able to present in the very near future a broad and comprehensive programme of measures to combat men's violence against women, which will take a grip on both preventive work and prevention and criminal justice. I look forward to this. I also look forward to seeing how the Swedish Democrats will stand up to those proposals and hope that we in this House will eventually be heard for a wide range of measures that will be able to continue to combat men's violence against women and ultimately put an end to men's violence against women.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-476	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Märta Stenevi! I can only say that it would have been nice if the Green Party had previously chosen to act in this area. Now Märta Stenevi says that she looks forward to us in this House, where I represent the Swedish Democrats, being able to agree on measures to limit and put an end to men's violence against women. But we have initiated this work since we entered the Riksdag. We have, of course, been putting forward proposals for years to deal with this problem. And, unfortunately, only last year, the Green Party voted against such measures. I therefore put the question to Märta Stenevi, because the criminal justice report is now being prepared in committee, if the Green Party will then follow up on these proposals. Madam President, I would like In the debate on men's violence against women, which has taken place since the murders in question, Märta Stenevi, as Minister for Equal Opportunities, has called for talks between the parties, and I welcome this. But at the same time Märta Stenevi also spoke out and said that it is a deep social problem that boys and men are raised to beat. It is somewhat unclear what the statement refers to, but I have never met a boy or man who has been trained to beat women. The handsome could also ask Märta Stenevi who would then raise boys and men to beat, not least because it is mainly women who raise boys. Mothers spend more time with their children than fathers do, and a clear majority of preschool, Fritis, and school staff are made up of women. Why would they teach boys how to beat girls? I'm not making any sense. If you drag it further, you can see that it is boys and men who have an absent father that is the worst for life. This fact is much discussed in the United States. It is so bad that 85 percent of young people in prison have an absent father. A number of other problems associated with an absent father are, according to Psychology Today behavioral problems, difficulties in making friends, violence, drug and alcohol problems, homelessness, mental health problems, physical health problems, poor life chances overall and short life expectancy. In other words, everything indicates that there is a strong need for young people to have a present father figure who can form a male role model and convey positive male norms – norms about, for example, not hitting girls and standing up for the weak and always defending women. These are sound standards, and the lack of them or the presence of negative standards is the problem. Left-wing politicians' criticism of the norms that have built our equal country is therefore directly dangerous to women, and so is the unwillingness of left-wing politicians to take strong action against the negative standards that have been established in our country. The latter consists of norms that actively oppress women and legitimise violence against women in order to preserve any claimed honor. It is, in general, an imported problem that has come to Sweden with immigrants from very different cultures with deeply destructive standards, as is evident today when it comes to men's violence against women, and not least sexual violence. The over-representation of persons with foreign background in the crime statistics is quite obvious. Can Märta Stenevi therefore admit that the negative norms that cause parts of the violence against women that we see in Sweden have been imported here?
i-52ea7b003455b18c-485	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless a great opportunity to affirm Tobias Andersson's first sense of patriarchal structures, because it is absolutely the case that patriarchal structures are maintained by both men and women. That is what lies in the concept itself. No, I don't think individual moms and dads teach their kids how to beat. What I believe, however, is that boys and men are still being raised to get away with misbehaving against girls and women. I spoke on Friday with a young girl in Malmö called Mona. She's started a podcast called Stop grabbing. She did that after she and her girlfriends got tired of a behavior from the guys in their school and the guys they meet who, sadly, I have to say, very similar to what I myself remember from my high school. I also recently spoke to a bunch of young people in Borlänge when I received the annual report of the Ombudsman for Children. They said they're afraid to go into McDonald's because there are groups of boys and men calling for them and grabbing them. Violence against women, on the other hand, is not a new phenomenon in Sweden. As far as deadly violence is concerned, it has not increased but has actually decreased in recent years. Since the beginning of the 21st century, deadly violence against women in close relationships has declined from an average of 18 cases to 15 cases a year, and it has decreased even more compared to, for example, the 70s, the time when we built our equal society. It in no way takes away the seriousness of this issue, but it puts it in a valuable context. The problem of men's deadly violence against women is something that has existed in Sweden all these years and is not something that has arisen in recent years. However, as long as a single woman is killed in Sweden by a loved one, we must continue to act. Of course, there are many positive standards among boys and men. They need to be acknowledged, they need to be promoted and they need to be highlighted. There are an incredible number of fathers, sons and friends throughout our country who are respectful and show empathy and tenderness, and we should certainly not forget that when we talk about destructive man standards. Unfortunately, however, there are also the destructive norms of masculinity that prevail. Tobias Andersson is partly on it when he describes it as standing up for himself. Basically, much of these standards are about praising strength, and the result of the constant attitude of boys and men to them is not always positive. On the contrary, several studies have shown that agreeing precisely with sex stereotyped claims about the roles of women and men is related to the practice of violence. Of course, in an individual situation, it is good to intervene to help someone in a vulnerable situation, regardless of gender and what the person is exposed to. But norms of masculinity contribute to women becoming more vulnerable than less. Finally, I would like to emphasise that men's violence against women is not a new problem, nor is it an imported phenomenon. You may have lived under a stone or perhaps not be a woman, Madam President, for escaping this fact. Not least metoo, which I believe and hope the honourable Member did not miss, and all the thousands of reports and testimonies that came out that autumn showed that this is a major problem that exists in all walks of life, not just in some individual group. It also showed that men's violence against women never begins in principle with violence. Often it begins much earlier with accepting attitudes and destructive standards. Therefore, we must be prepared to go in and break spirals of violence, preferably before they have even begun.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-495	Madam President, I would like When, like Märta Stenevi, you claim that everything is as it used to be and that the same problems that existed in the 1970s remain, you miss out on something significant, namely the big difference in acceptance of parts of this behavior. Märta Stenevi says the problem is that we accept boys' behavior. I am absolutely convinced that neither I nor Märta Stenevi nor anyone in our acquaintances would accept someone close to us who was convicted of, for example, assaulting his wife or cohabiting partner. We had renounced them and condemned them and probably did not associate with them at all. The Swedish collective and among Swedish norms and values take this type of women's freedom seriously. It immediately leads to social exclusion. But Sweden has welcomed a few million people, many of whom come from cultures with completely different values and where you do not see problems with beating or oppressing women, but on the contrary, the collective is urged to do just that in order to preserve the honour of the family, family or clan. This means that unlike in Märta Stenevis and my social associations, where one is likely to push out the one who acts destructively and is violently against a woman, there is pressure within these collectives to act destructively and beat and punish the wife or daughter if one of them behaves deviant and risks affecting the family's honour in the eyes of others. That is the big difference, and one cannot admit it, but stands by the fact that in Sweden today it is just like in the 70s, we will never overcome the imported problem that is part of men's violence against women.
i-52ea7b003455b18c-500	Madam President, I would like Society will have to act vigorously against all forms of oppression of honour and can never accept that people are not allowed to choose for themselves who to marry, children's marriage or that people are subjected to violence and oppression because of standards of honour. Never. What the honourable Member says about the whole phenomenon of violence against women being an imported problem is an interesting statement. Madam President, I would like I can't help reading some newspaper headlines: SD politicians convicted of rape, SD politicians convicted of sexual harassment, SD politicians prosecuted for violence in close relationship, SD women accuse the party of sexual assault, Encouragement of rape spread from SD top account – and the list continues. This does not, of course, mean that violence against women is a problem of Sweden's democracy. But it is also not an imported problem – just as it is not a problem among Gothenburgers, in the upper class or in any other particular group of society. As Bianca Kronlöf said: If it had been so simple that we knew exactly which men it was with a certain background that raped or struck, the problem would have been very easy to solve. Instead, it is a widespread social problem. I wonder: Were the Swedish democrats actually living under a stone under metoo? Did they miss all the testimony that came out during that fall? Did they miss all those reports? Are accounts from women's shelters, Hidden Women or other civil society groups that point to these problems being followed at all? The violence should stop, whether the man who practises the violence is of foreign or Swedish origin, whether it is honorary oppression or other destructive norms that lie at the bottom and whether the violence occurs in an apartment, in a cabin, at a home party or at a conference by a stranger or a partner. We'll never be happy until all women are safe and no man beats.
