i-16ffb738b3c558bf-1	Mr President, I would like to The report MJU18 Materials and articles intended to come into contact with food deals with a proposal that may not sound very exciting to the general public, but it is quite important. Knowledge of which materials are good and bad when it comes to contact with food is growing, and it is extremely important that we deal with dangerous substances such as PFAS and others, so that we simply get them out of our food. Something that concerns us Moderates is the question of who should be responsible for monitoring these kinds of issues. We are concerned because today we see that we do not have equal and legally secure control over the whole country. It is incredibly important that we actually build one and that the Swedish Food Safety Agency ensures that the control is fair, legally secure and equal throughout the country, for all food business operators. This is about food business operators such as our farmers, whom we have already burdened incredibly heavily with administration, regulations and extra hassles. A while ago we read about figures that showed that the legal requirements for Swedish farmers have increased by over 100 per cent in recent years. The requirement for record keeping has increased by over 300 per cent, and the requirements for notifications and permits in green industries have increased by over 400 per cent. These are entrepreneurs who often run one-man or few-person businesses. I do not see Magnus Oscarsson in this Chamber right now, but he often says: When will the farmer have time to be a farmer? I think it is important to have with us, because we have burdened Swedish agriculture tremendously through increased administration and increased hassles in recent times. It may sound simple when you say it, but it must be easy to do the right thing. It is not today, but today it is rather easy to make mistakes. Nor is there any clarity as to what actually applies in all these processes. We would need authorities that can better communicate with traders and find ways forward to make it easy to do the right thing. While we are dealing with food issues here today, it is easy to end up in our food strategy adopted by this House. It is a food strategy that means that by 2030 we will have achieved the goals of increasing food production, increasing exports and increasing preparedness. We are quite far from it, Mr President. Today, every other bite we put in is still imported into Sweden. Over the past year, the Corona crisis has caused various problems in society, not only in terms of disease, but also in the form of crises in various ways, such as in the food industry. We can also see the increased threat to security in Europe. There are tensions; we last saw what happened in Belarus the other day. Security's under pressure. With regard to the pandemic we are in, linked to the EU – what happened when we entered the pandemic? Yes, then, freedom of movement and open borders were obviously not so important. Many countries chose to join. Suddenly, it became a concern to transport goods across borders. Swedish agriculture felt not only that they had trouble getting staff here, but they also had trouble getting spare parts. Fortunately, the pandemic came to Sweden in March. If it had come a few months earlier, perhaps in November, we would have encountered major concerns about obtaining inputs for Swedish agriculture and food production. It could have been a concern to get fuel, and it would have been a concern to get plant nutrients here – which we do not have a reserve stock of in Sweden. We don't have that alert. The same applies to plant protection products; the active substance in most plant protection products used in Swedish agriculture today originates from China. There could have been huge problems. We know, as I said, that cross-border transport also suffered. When we do not have proper transport in a pandemic like this, one can only imagine what would happen in a perhaps very changed security situation. It turns out time and again that we have too little preparedness in Sweden. We have too little food production when it comes to the level of supply. We need to increase it. When we talk about our food strategy again, however, I think, Mr President, that the government will soon be obliged to answer when it will actually begin to be delivered on this food strategy. When are we going to start climbing from this 50% self-sufficiency rate? It is possible to say many good words that action plans are being drawn up here and there and that missions are being set up in different ways, but nothing is happening. Milk business operators in the country continue to close down. It is still the case that many farmers stop – because of unprofitability, because of the predatory issue and because of activism. They also end because of regulatory problems and other concerns. We have not reversed this trend. If the government is now satisfied that we are at a 50% level of self-sufficiency in food in Sweden – say so! Tell me you're happy! Or at least tell us how to get out of this. Because we are not heading in the right direction at the moment. There are some positive trends. For example, we saw that during the year that passed we had a higher milk weight than we had for a few years before. But there's one thing. Of course, milk production is the engine of Swedish agriculture – absolutely – but a single year does not represent a trend. I am very worried that we will not be able to increase our self-sufficiency. When we discuss food production and Swedish preparedness, I think that an important issue is strategic food facilities. Strategic food facilities have existed for a very long time in our urban areas – these are large silo plants, slaughterhouses and food processing plants of various kinds – but they are currently under pressure to move, you think they are not in the right place, because of sound, smell, transport and other things. We need a plan for this, Mr President. Where should we have our strategic food facilities? They are not only important for our food production, but they are also important for the preparedness of society for the next time there is a crisis similar to the pandemic – or perhaps even worse. Today, there is no plan for strategic food establishments. We need to deal with that. Another important issue when it comes to food production and food supply is drinking water. It is our most important food. In fact, in committee today we have talked a lot about water, but it was in a different context. However, drinking water is important. The Alliance government set up a drinking water investigation in 2013, and it lasted for three years. Then, until 2020, the Swedish Food Safety Agency was given a mandate to start reviewing the coordination of drinking water. I think it has gone far too slowly. I think it's symptomatic for this government that it's going too slow every time. It concerns issues that are important for national security and food production, and it takes too long every time. There's either a lack of knowledge or a lack of will. I don't know which one. The Moderates have invested a great deal in the budget on the issue of water and drinking water in order to develop new technologies, to counteract the effects of drought and to inventory where in society we have water resources and water reservoirs. These are important issues. The drinking water issue is something that I think needs to be raised higher on the agenda than today. I see my time is running out, Mr President. I'll just briefly mention a few more things. Another point we are dealing with in this report is origin marking, which I think is a very important issue. Origin marking on products should be self-evident – marking where they come from. It should be a matter of course for the consumer to know that, for example, a piece of meat comes from a country – we do not mention the names of countries – which have extremely high levels of antibiotic use in their food production. It is reasonable that the consumer, whether buying it in a shop or in a restaurant or getting it through the public sector, knows where the food comes from. You have to have a choice whether you want to eat this or not. You can make that choice easier when you know where the food comes from. I think the food waste issue is extremely important to raise when we talk about food. We have a huge food waste today, and we need to deal with it. For example, the waste in Swedish slaughterhouses is greater than in Danish slaughterhouses, for example, because we have an uneven assessment from our controlling veterinarians in the slaughterhouses. This is not reasonable; we need to deal with it. Last but not least, I would like to raise an issue that we have talked about many times in here, namely the small-scale sale of wild boar meat. How many years will it take for every hunter to shoot and sell his boar himself? The latest assignments given will hopefully be completed and final report in 2022. That means it won't be this year either. The wild boar strain grows in some areas. The hunters' freezers are full. Give them the opportunity that we've been going on about for so many years on behalf of the Moderates. There are ready-made systems in Germany – why can't we get started in Sweden? This is remarkable, Mr President. There is much to say about food issues and food policy, but we have promised that more reports will take place here this afternoon. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-26	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 4, on emergency stocks and so on. Today we have a debate on food policy. Fortunately, I see that the issue of emergency preparedness and security of supply comes up in documents and proposals. Now it is no longer only in the claims of the Swedish Democrats that we can see this, but we can see it broadly in both proposals and discussions in food policy. I am therefore going to focus on this issue in my speech. We believe that Sweden must prepare itself for times of crisis, unrest, barriers and perhaps, at worst, war. In these preparations there must be food stocks; there must be food stocks that create the degree of freedom we need when we are cut off from the outside world. We also need stocks to make agriculture work in times of crisis and war. These are inputs, such as pesticides, fuels, fertilisers, seeds and veterinary products. It can also apply to spare parts and various subsidies for production. Everything must be in place and able to function in times of crisis. There must also be clear responsibilities distributed. We want to give a clear responsibility to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to build and keep stocks that will ensure that agriculture works in times of crisis. We also want to give the Swedish Food Safety Agency the task – a forward order – to keep in the building of food stocks and to manage them. We think it is natural to make greater demands on market players for the security of the country. However, perhaps the single largest safety insurance is to increase food production in Sweden. It is sadly low, which is because our agriculture is not competitive – it is not profitable. But that could be the case, because it is political reasons why it is not profitable. In this context, one must have the courage to make uncomfortable decisions. They can look different. We may need to increase our climate load as we increase production if the global climate load goes down. It's still a good deal for the climate. Worse is it if we import food that is significantly more climate-burdening than the food in Swedish production. It's the result that counts. The government is receiving criticism today in the specialist newspaper Land Agriculture for its handling of the food strategy. This is particularly serious because the government constantly refers to the food strategy when we talk about the profitability of agriculture. Although this is the jewel in the crown for the government, the industry does not believe that it is handled properly – it does not do enough. I grew up in the '70s and did military service in the '80s. Some may think it has been a long time, but I do not think it has been that long. Back then, we had all this. We had food stocks and conditions for agriculture to produce in times of crisis and war. We had a defense where we were trained to face the enemy, to stop the enemy and to beat the enemy. It was real. Then came three decades – the 90's, the 00's and the 10's – which were easy-minded decades. It was imagined that there would be no crisis or war in the future. We heard this before World War I and before World War II. It's so easy to deceive yourself and fool yourself that there won't be bad times, but history shows time and time again that it's in quiet times – peace times or good times – that one should prepare for the bad times and the times of crisis. As recently as this morning's Econews, it was clear that there were clear signals before the pandemic – 2016, 2018 and 2019 – that pandemic preparedness was poor. The government received these signals, yet it was unprepared when the pandemic came. There is now an interest in security issues, preparedness, emergency preparedness and supply issues. I would like to say to all my colleagues in all parties and to all the citizens: do not let this go, because this is for real!
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-38	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say to all of you who are listening that the subject of today's debate, materials and products intended to come into contact with food, perhaps that is not really what this debate will be about. There is certainly a proposal in the report, but we Members will certainly take up much of the food policy proposals that were submitted during the general period of exercise. I would like to start by mentioning this so that you can understand why the issues concern so much more than the legislation itself. I would also like to thank Mrs Caroline for a well-written report. It is incredibly interesting, also for those who listen, to take note of the situation in Sweden right now, not least when it comes to what previous speakers have said about the fact that there are many investigative missions going on and so on. It's interesting for all of us to know what's going on. I am thinking that those who come after me in the debate and who represent the two government parties might go through the new legislation more, and that is why I agree, above all, with the Centre Party's various movements from the general period of exercise. Of course, I support all our reservations and the proposals that have been made in a simplistic way, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 13 in paragraph 8. Mr President, I would like to The report shows that several authorities have been given extensive mandates to facilitate business operators throughout the food sector. This applies to primary production and food processing as well as to the chain that reaches different customers. Nevertheless, representatives of primary production fear a flood of new legislation and detailed regulation, not least in view of the various proposals under way in the EU's green deal, the agricultural-to-table approach and so on. There will be two images that resist each other, on the one hand a mission to simplify production and on the other a fear that it will be even tougher in many different areas. Our absolute goal is for the entrepreneurs in our country who represent the vital food production to experience that the food strategy with its action plans really leads to regulatory simplification, increased knowledge, innovation, strengthened competitiveness and increased profitability so that Swedish food production can grow and provide more hungry stomachs with saturated food that has grown in our Swedish regions from north to south. I agree, in part, with previous speakers that there is much to prove from the government and various authorities so that these words and missions also have meaning in the face of reality. In the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture we have produced a report on vulnerability in Swedish agriculture over the past year, and it has been an interesting discussion in our evaluation group. The report has attracted great interest, and we have had a hearing on it in the First Chamber. It is very much about what is needed to create robustness, and the responses in the report and at the hearing have been consistent. Significantly increased profitability and competitiveness are needed as well as secure access to inputs such as fuel, fertiliser, plant protection products and more in the event of crisis and war. This is, of course, important every year, but even more important when an extreme situation arises. This is basically about our basic ability to supply. The Torkåret 2018 put many important questions on the agenda. The harvests were much worse than normal, and lack of food resulted in more animals being slaughtered than planned. The list can be made long. In the light of this, we can read in the report that various authorities have been given various government mandates to ensure greater robustness throughout the food chain. I mentioned at the outset that there is much to read to the interested party, and the report clearly states when the various missions will be presented. It is important that the food strategy's wording on regulatory simplifications continues to be the focus. During the 2018 crisis, we saw that civil society as a whole mobilised and that individual citizens really stepped forward and were a very important part of getting us out of this crisis. It is amazing that it works, but we believe that greater demands should be made for better coordination between our authorities in the event of a crisis. A strong civil society is important, but training and systematics in crisis management are also important. The coronapandemy has also highlighted a number of shortcomings in our Swedish system, with many authorities who have shared responsibility for vital issues. Let me take one, perhaps a little banal, example. When the production of spirits was to be turned into hand spirit, it was difficult to identify which authority could give permission for this. Authorities referred to other authorities instead of taking co-ordinated responsibility. It's not that simple, so here we need a holistic approach. Therefore, it was interesting to listen to Minister Damberg's speech at Folk och Försvar. He then, of course, raised the important issues of supply. He promised that in the spring of 2021 a study would be set up on what a nationally coordinated supply readiness should include and how it should be organised and financed. There is some day left of the spring month of May, so we are eagerly waiting for this promise to be fulfilled. Perhaps the representatives of the Social Democrats have more information to give later in the debate. Let me return to the Center Party's proposal on the preparedness of agriculture. Here we point to the importance of food preparedness being conducted from a holistic perspective. The food strategy is largely about increased production. We do not know what is going on this year, but many of us are following with concern all those farmers who have not been able to use their crops fully in spring. The weather affects us in many ways, and that is beyond our control. But there is much we can do in the future to climate-proof different parts of agriculture. The objective of increased competitiveness and profitability is also about farmers themselves being able to make the necessary investments to secure their business forward. It is also important in order to increase profitability, and it also gives empowerment to each individual entrepreneur. One aspect of Sweden's livelihood is, of course, to increase the proportion of Swedish-produced food. Other aspects concern deficiencies in reserve capacity and logistics. Stockpiling of essential food and strategic inputs in turnover stocks will also be important when supply systems are vulnerable. In the event of a shortage of trucks and other vehicles, or when electronic communications are out of service, those responsible urgently and jointly need to plan for the functioning of food distribution in the country. Since all stages of the food supply chain are owned, operated and organised by the private industry, we cannot stress enough the importance of this being done by the public and the business community together. Mr President, I would like to We often talk about the importance of good information to the customer so that the customer can choose food that promotes increased health. Unfortunately, Sweden has a rather high level of ill health linked to lifestyles, and the report therefore highlights the need to develop key hole labelling so that consumers can make increasingly informed choices. The Parliament's newly formed food policy network had a seminar just a few weeks ago. Food companies then highlighted the importance of keyhole marking. It is a target for many companies when developing new products that these will also be keyhole marked. Finally, Mr President, we are calling for more flexible rules for small-scale activities. According to the Swedish Food Administration, the legislation allows for flexible applications. You lift up target control and the importance of guidance. The task is to simplify and make it easier for businesses to make controls more effective, reduce the fees paid by businesses and save time and resources for businesses. They say that everyday difficulties should be solved with more flexible solutions. I wish I could believe that. We will, of course, continue to follow up on this. I would like to conclude by pointing out once again that we are eating more and more Swedish produced. This is one way for all of us to increase national livelihoods.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-63	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating MJU18 Materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. It may sound so exciting, but I think that the debate has already shown that there is a great deal of scope on the subject. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10. Mr President, I would like to I could start the debate with a discussion on why it is so important to remove all obstacles to reducing the wild boar strain in Sweden – many of us agree – or that food served from the local and regional kitchens should be labelled as originating so that it is clear where the raw materials come from. This also applies to restaurants in the city. It is very important that consumers should be informed about where the meat comes from, for example. As my colleague John Widegren said, some countries use a terrible amount of antibiotics. We in Sweden are the world leader, in fact the best in the EU, at using the least antibiotics in animal husbandry, thanks to our talented Swedish farmers. However, at the beginning of my speech I would like to raise the great concern about the exceptionally wet and cold May. This has meant that many who have special crops, such as potatoes and carrots, have very great difficulties. Thousands of hectares that should have been set are not, but are full of water. And if you put the potatoes or carrots, they have often rotted. I would like to send an appeal to the parties on the government side to follow developments carefully. For many farmers it is already a disaster that has happened. Mr President, I would like to Our readiness is good. It is a well-known quote from Prime Minister Per Albin Hansson from August 27, 1939. Today we know that the preparedness may not have been as good as he said, but I find it interesting that Per Albin Hansson talked about Sweden's agriculture in his speech. He concluded by saying that it is better equipped than ever to receive self-sufficiency in his area. ..................................................... Today, Mr President, 82 years later, unfortunately, we cannot say the same, but it is in fact exactly the opposite. The self-sufficiency of food is down to bottom levels. Yes, you heard right, bottom levels! Nothing has happened in the years I have been in Parliament since 2014. Every other bite we eat does not come from Sweden, and this, my friends, is serious and very worrying. We have raised this issue. It is a key point in the food strategy, which we were involved in negotiating a few years ago, or rather in 2017. The food strategy, which we adopted in Parliament, is incredibly important. One of the points was precisely that food self-sufficiency would increase. But what do we have to look forward to four years later? I have to say that it is very thin in the field that the government has produced. In fact, it is exactly the opposite: it has decreased and has not increased. You may remember that it was an emergency exercise in this House almost exactly a year ago. It was very valuable, instructive and gave a great deal, and I would like to thank the President for that. On a question from me to the then Director General of the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, about how they are working to increase food preparedness, the answer was that they were not working on the issue at all. It would take until 2 October 2020, Mr President, before the government that is currently sitting instructed various authorities to start working on this issue. But hey, what time it takes! It's not exactly fast-footed. How can it take so much time? That's the question. We know that in the event of a crisis or a war situation, Stockholm, where we work and some of us live, will survive for two days. Then the shelves in the grocery stores are empty. In the rest of Sweden we talk about about a week – then the shelves and also the stocks are empty. This, my friends, is very serious and troubling. I can say that I am grateful that we are talking about these issues. When I started lifting them up in 2014, I was told that there was nothing to talk about and that it was going to be okay. As we say in Östergötland, it's all right. No, it doesn't. It's not gonna be okay. We must, of course, have a plan for how it is to be resolved. So, what are we gonna do? We do not need to invent the wheel ourselves, but we can start by looking at our brilliant neighbour to the east: Finland. There they can say, like Per Albin Hansson, that preparedness is good. They are equipped to receive good self-sufficiency. Finland has a self-sufficiency rate of approximately 80 per cent, and is able to support its population for over six months in the event of a crisis or a war situation. Here we certainly have much to learn from our dear brotherland Finland. When in Sweden we are only self-sufficient in flour, sugar and carrots and perhaps can offer a good carrot cake to our inhabitants, Finland can offer its population a three-course menu. Speaking of strategic food facilities, which my good colleague John Widegren mentioned, it is extremely worrying, as I have raised to the Minister for Rural Development, that the facilities around Sweden are being called into question today. You say, "Why should there be a silo here?" We want a bike path, a mill or a slaughterhouse here instead. This is not good enough, we mean. In Finland it is a national interest that such facilities exist, and of course we should have them in Sweden as well. In this context, Mr President, I would like to quote Sweden's ÖB and what he said at the LRF General Assembly: Improving security of supply in a crisis is very much about increasing domestic food security. ..................................................... It is important that agriculture in our country is not shut down because of poor profitability, as is happening today. On the contrary, it is of the utmost importance that all citizens see increased food production throughout our country.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-81	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for reservation number 8, but we in the Liberals naturally support all our proposals. I would like to draw attention to the fact that many of our liberal proposals are in simplified treatment and are therefore not dealt with in the report. Mr President, I would like to Many have been concerned about the importance of food. Food is crucial to our existence. We need food and water. Last spring, when the pandemic struck, we were able to note that a great many instinctively traded dry goods, spaghetti, paper and more in large quantities. But it was possible to refill the shelves. That is why the livelihood, which many have been dealing with, in both crisis and increased preparedness and war, is very important. Ensuring the availability of food and food in the broad sense requires a functioning market for inputs, transport, computer systems and storage in both retail and wholesale channels. The whole food chain needs to be so robust that we can also cope with severe pressures and disturbances with reasonable consequences for society. This requires a functioning infrastructure in the form of, as I have mentioned, roads, electricity, data communication and water supply. The availability of safe drinking water is a fundamental social function for the population as well as good quality water is a prerequisite for very much of the activities in the food chain. Liberals believe that food security requires free trade, international cooperation and long-term national preparedness. Mr President, I would like to When there is no crisis and everyday life fills life, food production and the availability of food are linked to consumer demand. It is very important that consumer demand also has an impact on the market. If the consumer wants an organic orange from a country outside Sweden, we welcome it from the Liberals. We think that trade itself is very important. Another issue that is very important for the Liberals is climate change and the greater variations in the weather that become and pose a challenge for agriculture and in the long term also for forestry and much more. We've seen that now that it's raining. In 2018, it was drought. In between, it may be too cold or too hot, and it is a challenge. Therefore, we address climate change on our part to create long-term sustainable conditions. We need to prepare for the variety of crops and also for forestry that can be affected by drought, rain and storms. The vulnerability and preparedness of society has recently been brought up to date in view of the ongoing coronapndemine and the drought that I mentioned affected Sweden in 2018. Sweden needs a good food supply capacity, including safe access to drinking water, both in case of increased preparedness and otherwise. As many have mentioned, the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment has carried out a follow-up on the vulnerability of agriculture and the degree of livelihood of the country. This has also been highlighted outside the committee. This shows, among other things, factors that are important in reducing vulnerability. I would like to point out once again that it is above all the means of intervention that are being promoted. The challenges we face are not only in Sweden and the EU, but internationally. In parts of the world, poor harvests can cause political tensions. Free trade and international cooperation are key elements of food security. But, of course, the ability of society to cope with great pressures also requires national preparedness. The threat to Swedish food security lies both in increased isolationism and in combination with climate change. There are many threats. The fact that we have a trade and an import is also linked to what consumers are asking for. Consumers' right to information should be important throughout the process, from production to consumption. Consumer power is important. Better regulations on origin labelling so that consumers can decide what they want to buy is very important. It is important that consumers can make informed choices and choose food based on perhaps both animal husbandry rules and environmental criteria. It is also important that labelling rules are linked to effective systems for both supervision and control. Wild boars have been mentioned in the debate, and I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the Government in the budget bill for 2021 reinforced the wild boar package by an additional SEK 20 million, among other things, in order to allow trichinae analysis. This has been very important for the Liberals, and we have worked hard to enable compensation for this. What is the challenge of enabling increased consumption of wild boar meat? Yes, it is about food safety. We must have a system that allows consumers to buy safe food. That's where the Trichinella Tests are absolutely crucial. The wild boar package is intended to contribute to more wild boar meat reaching the market by facilitating all the way to consumers but also creating incentives for an increased displacement of wild boar. Here we look forward from the Liberals to future treatments of the feeding issue that at the other end affect the evolution of the stem. Consumers need good information. Consumers should be able to decide where the products come from and make active choices. However, this requires good information and transparency, so that consumer demand becomes as conscious as possible because consumers are also crucial.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-100	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved. Today we are debating food policy, but also the proposal Materials and articles intended to come into contact with food, which is mentioned in the report. It is not only food that has to meet high safety standards, but also food packaging of various kinds. The proposal is that the scope of the Food Act should be extended to include materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. It is about materials and products that are available in all Swedish homes and that we use every day. The proposal will both strengthen the protection of public health and create a healthier competitive environment for businesses. Mr President, I would like to The important and persistent work to achieve the goals of our Swedish food strategy continues, and at the beginning of this year the Minister for Rural Development presented the third action plan. The Action Plan includes investments in Eldrimner to develop and maintain knowledge in food trades and to promote small-scale food business and small-scale food production. This is an effort on the coordination function Eco at the Swedish Agriculture Agency to promote the production, consumption and export of organic food. It is also a question of strengthening the wild boar package in order for more wild boar meat to reach us consumers and to create incentives for hunters to shoot more wild boars. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. We have said that many times. And now in this third action plan there is an emphasis on a simplification package for increased growth throughout the food chain. The government has listened, and now we are acting together with the parties that are behind the January agreement. The regulatory burden must be reduced so that Swedish farmers can focus on being farmers instead of being administrators. It's about creating good systems to make it easy to do the right thing. This is a regulatory area. Food is handled, and there are a great many aspects to be taken into account. Most rules exist for a reason. If they don't, they should be removed. But even if you manage to remove some, we will have to work with digitalisation, systematisation and other things that make it easier to handle the remaining regulatory burden. The Government also instructs the Finnish Food Administration to increase the equivalence of food control throughout the country. The task includes simplifying and facilitating the operation of controls, reducing company fees and saving companies' time and resources. Unfortunately, however, the need for controls could be seen in the media as late as yesterday when we saw terrible elements of completely unacceptable chicken slaughter. Workable food controls are also crucial for finding and combating the food fraud which is today a growing problem and about which we have recently been informed in committee. In the context of the Food Strategy, the Government has therefore provided the Swedish Food Authority with additional funding during the period 2020-2025 to strengthen and develop efforts in this area. Mr President, I would like to We have all been affected by the ongoing pandemic, and the food sector has been affected in many different ways. Demand for Swedish food has increased in the footsteps of the pandemic, which is gratifying, but it is also important that demand persists after the pandemic. We must highlight the added value of Swedish products and continue to reduce vulnerability and increase our level of supply. What the pandemic has also made clear is how important it is to work preventively to promote good living habits, and food is a crucial part of this. People with obesity, high blood pressure and diabetes are particularly affected by covid-19. Unhealthy eating habits are one of the biggest risk factors for ill health and premature death. Research also shows that socio-economically vulnerable groups eat less and are more affected. This is a class issue, which is why the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs have given a joint mission to the Public Health Authority and the Swedish Food Authority to develop proposals to increase equality and create sustainable and healthy food consumption in the country. Mr President, I would like to Pandemin has also shown the importance of developing civil defence and strengthening Swedish security of supply. Food security and safe drinking water are a fundamental function of society for the population, and good quality water is also a prerequisite for activities throughout the food chain. The government's efforts in civil defence, together with the efforts in the food strategy, are now enabling the country's food readiness to be built up. During the ongoing pandemic, there is a great deal to be enjoyed in Swedish food production. For example, both milk production and the number of dairy cows in Sweden are finally increasing. The latest Farm Survey shows increased profitability for both plant growers and meat producers, but above all it shows strong confidence in the future. Mr President, I would like to This week began well. The government set up an investigation on Monday based on the January agreement's wording to take a concerted approach on how we can work to reduce antibiotic use globally. The investigation will also examine whether meat should be marked with the amount of antibiotics used in production. Swedish farmers use less antibiotics than in many other countries, but it is difficult for consumers to know how big the differences are. What food we choose to produce and eat can affect our environment, our biodiversity, the use of antibiotics in the world and our health. Therefore, you and I as consumers can make a difference by choosing what we buy for food and putting on the plate. Today is actually the day of the cheese, and only four out of ten cheeses that we eat are Swedish. There is an incredible amount more to do here. In public Sweden, about 3 million meals are served every day in health care, school and care. This is why the public has an important role to play in the procurement of food. Good and nutritious meals for children and the elderly contribute to good health throughout life. The work on the food strategy is long-term work, and we must link all the good work done, from farm level to research, in order to succeed. Now the government is also investing in the important research in the food sector. A long-term investment in research and innovation is crucial for achieving a sustainable and competitive food system. The food strategy covers the entire food chain and has a full focus on increased and sustainable food production that will lead to more jobs and sustainable growth across the country.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-116	Mr President, I would like to The European Council met Monday and Tuesday this week. The agenda included covid-19, climate and Russia. However, the meeting came to be largely about Belarus, as a civil aircraft was forced to land in Minsk on Sunday. The aim was to arrest a critic of the regime and his partner. The European Council called for the immediate release of these two, Roman Protasevich and Sofia Sapega, and also agreed on a number of measures, including calling for an international investigation, to proceed with additional sanctions, both listing individual responsible and targeted financial sanctions, to call on EU countries to stop flights in belarusian airspace and to prevent carriers from Belarus from landing at European airports. It is positive that we were able to agree so quickly on clear and resolute action on the part of the European Union, which was also fully in line with the demands I made from the Swedish side. This was shameless and unacceptable behaviour on the part of Belarus. It is important that such things meet with powerful and immediate consequences. Mr President, I would like to The European Council also held a strategic discussion on Russia. It is very good that we had this opportunity to discuss it together. The EU's relationship with Russia is of great importance for security in Sweden and our entire neighbourhood. Like myself, there were many who stressed the importance of the EU countries being united on Russia's issue. We shall return to it at the next summit in June. Until then, the EU External Action Service and the Commission will prepare a report to review the five principles underlying the EU's Russian policy. I am counting on that report to assess both how these principles are implemented and on the future attitude of the EU towards Russia. These are very important issues for Sweden, and it is positive that we are now spending a lot of time on them. We also dealt with some other foreign affairs, including the UK and the problems that have arisen in the implementation of the exit trade agreements. It is now important that we achieve as close and good cooperation as possible between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Mr President, I would like to With vaccination taking off across Europe, many countries are also starting to ease their restrictions. The agreement on the digital pandemic passes will be an important tool to revitalise travel as the contamination situation allows. It is also crucial that vaccines reach all countries, including outside the EU. That is why it was very good that we were able to agree that the EU should share at least 100 million surplus doses in the autumn. This is an important step. First of all, we will vaccinate Sweden without delay, but we have signed up for more doses than we need. Therefore, Sweden can contribute 3 million doses to this joint EU commitment, which corresponds to more than our share of the population. We will share doses that we do not use precisely because it is so important that vaccinations take place around our world. Mr President, I would like to Finally, there was an exchange of views on how to achieve the vulnerable climate targets and ultimately become climate neutral by 2050. There are still differences of opinion between Member States. Many operate a line where costs rather than the need for rapid climate action will determine the rate of conversion. It is important that no one is left behind in this green and digital transition. It should be respected that some countries have a far greater conversion rate than others. But this must not be a smokescreen for lower climate ambitions. During this discussion, I stated the importance of maintaining our high ambitions, that all countries must contribute to achieving the objectives and that the green transition can also contribute to competition and prosperity if we get it right. In the end, we have no choice. We have to make the transition. I also underlined how our sustainable forestry can contribute to meeting the climate challenge. Now the next step is for the Commission to present this summer a comprehensive legislative package that will help achieve the climate targets set. The package is called Fit for 55. The European Council shall then return to the climate issue at the appropriate time.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-125	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Lukasjenko hijacking of a plane flying between two EU countries must have consequences and clear condemnation. It was very important and absolutely necessary for the EU to agree on targeted sanctions against Belarus. Something else would have been completely unthinkable and would have damaged confidence in the EU. It was a decision that was crucial to demonstrate the EU's capacity for action. The EU must continue to show its muscles forward. Europe must move forward. These were a few small steps, but more countermeasures are needed. Our support for the Belarus people must also stand firm. With this incident, Lukasjenko has clearly crossed another line, which we simply cannot accept. Lukasjenko has internationalised this crisis, and we cannot slow down our efforts now. This is a crisis that is far from over for Europe. During the consultation, the Prime Minister was not clear about what he intended to pursue regarding the consequences for Belarus. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister what he was running. We have now spoken a few times about the important work on the fourth package of sanctions. It is important that we keep moving forward and that the measures against Belarus are felt. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it was any other sanctions that he imposed at the European Council, for example, to stop access to international money streams.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-130	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that support for the population and civil society in Belarus is extremely important. It also told the opposition leader Tikhanovskaya when I met her just over six months ago. Civil society and the people of Belarus must feel that the EU exists in support of them and in support of a democratic Belarus. But that's a long way. I explained the Swedish starting points of the consultation, during the meeting and just now in the speaker's chair. The resulting conclusions are well in line with the Swedish starting points and requirements. That's why I think it's good that Sweden together with others early was very clear. These are precisely the things that were listed here: not to use Belarusian airspace and to ban Belarus airlines from landing. The Swedish Transport Agency has already made a decision – which in itself has been appealed – that a company should not be allowed to land here and should not be allowed to use our airports. Of course, as I said, it is also a question of continuing the listing of persons plus targeted sanctions. Then it will have to be followed up. We don't know exactly what that listing looks like. It is now up to the Commission and the EEAS to come up with exactly what those sanctions should be. Thankfully, there was a much clearer consensus here than in other foreign affairs. That is why we were able to make the decisions so quickly. We will be pleased with that, continue to monitor the issue and take it further.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-134	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Absolutely, I fully agree that we should be satisfied. This is an important step. But it's not over. We have to keep going. I would also like to repeat one thing I said in the consultation, namely that we must not lose momentum with regard to Russia either. There were many important issues discussed at the summit. I'd like to ask you a question about the climate. It was good that the Prime Minister highlighted Swedish forestry. It was also an issue that was raised in the consultation on Monday. Perhaps we did not get clear answers about what Sweden and the Prime Minister would push for the meeting. If we go back one step, it is a good thing that the EU has now agreed on stronger targets. We on the moderate side have regretted that it has not been possible to agree that each Member State should assume its responsibilities if we discuss burden-sharing. I would like to know what it was that the Prime Minister highlighted in that part so that Sweden and other Member States can get there and how to ensure that all countries assume their responsibilities.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-139	Mr President, I would like to Just as Jessika Roswall says, forestry is an important part. Now we did not get into detail on the various issues to be included here. It is also important for us to keep it at a certain level at the European Council. We are now setting the direction, and then the Council will take a decision. We will do so by qualified majority rather than by unanimity, and then we will avoid anyone being able to block. It's the whole time. On the basis of those objectives, as I said to the Commission now in July, we estimate, in any case, that eleven or twelve different legislations will be proposed which will take it further. They shall be dealt with in the Council. In this regard, we believe it is strategically important that we get legislation in motion that gives the individual Member States a responsibility and an obligation to contribute themselves to the various sectors in which they are to contribute.
i-7kgDAyc74mJ7Veua4jjV44	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! These are certainly interesting and very important issues that have been addressed. It is about the worrying developments in Russia and, not least, in Belarus. Belarus, or what is often referred to as Europe's last dictatorship, has been reading a great deal about since the rigged elections last autumn. The news and headlines about what the brutal regime is doing to its population have replaced each other. Brutality is really old news. But we have been reminded of what kind of regime we are dealing with through articles on the forced expulsion, imprisonment, torture and even gassing of peaceful demonstrators and political opposition. In spite of all this, the Swedish Export Credit Board chose to sign and also renew a billion-dollar agreement in the form of loan guarantees with state companies in the dictatorship, with the Prime Minister's good memory. This was withdrawn after being highlighted in the media. But the government did not seem to be very bothered despite the knowledge of what kind of dictatorship we are dealing with. The list of gross violations has become longer. We saw this not least on Sunday when you cut off a plane and kidnapped two passengers on board. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister has been clear here in his condemnation, and that is something I am delighted about. Not least in the light of the government's previous prowess: then why should we trust the Prime Minister and suddenly be serious in calling for strong and immediate action?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-150	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I do not know what the honourable Member means by prowess. It is difficult to answer that question. We have agreed between the countries in view of this. We are, too, in the case of Russia. It is that we stand up for human rights, respect for international law and so on – and that applies to everyone – and that Lukasjenko is not a legitimately elected President. It was a choice that cannot be approved for that reason. We agree on the support for civil society and all this. I also believe that we agree on this in this House. These are exactly the questions that we have been pushing. I find it difficult to relate to the question, but perhaps it was a little more rhetorical than honest.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-153	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. The Prime Minister is right, of course, that things have been done. For once, the EU was very fast and acted quickly and rightly. The European Council has been clear in its calls. This applies not least to taking the necessary measures to prohibit overflights across EU territory and to prevent belarusian airlines from accessing EU airports. In other words, it is about stopping flights from landing at Arlanda, for example. According to the Prime Minister, this was entirely in line with what he himself has been advocating. Mr President, I would like to Despite the announcement from the Prime Minister, an aircraft belonging to Belarus' state-owned airline landed at Arlanda already the following day. Is it the case that the Prime Minister has his own definition of what the term immediately means?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-158	Mr President, I would like to I think the honourable Member knows that decisions on this matter are taken not by the Prime Minister but by the responsible authority. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that makes decisions on this issue, and the Swedish Transport Agency has made decisions. From what I understand, it did so as quickly as it could. If I also understood correctly, the decision has been appealed. Let's see how that process ends. We have been clear about where we want it to end and how it will continue. We have expressed this. The Authority takes decisions. That is how it is done in the management model we have. It is not the Prime Minister who makes that decision, it is the Authority. I think it's a good order. Nevertheless, we would like to continue to see all these points from the release of the two who, unfortunately, were now detained so that everything relating to flights is completed as quickly as possible.
i-7uBPjNU7zN6gUbk8Jvv9DB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was a good thing that the European Council agreed to call off Belarus' airspace. It's not safe. Lukasjenko staged – and he has acknowledged this – an aircraft creation, not an emergency landing, the Prime Minister, with the MiG operation. All this was done to arrest one for the Lukashenko regime uncomfortable person, Roman Protasevich, and Sofia Sapega. It is important that we now have clarity about what took place that led Ryan a ir to two minutes from Lithuanian airspace turning to Minsk, who got off the plane in Minsk and whether the Kremlin was involved. Finality and régime lies must be met with full transparency. The light will break the trolls. It's well known. It is important that we do not allow Belavia to fly over EU airspace or land until clarity is achieved. Roman Protasevich and Sofia Sapega must of course be released. What has happened is changing Lukasjenko to a new level of villains that must be met clearly and forcefully by the European Union. The discussions held at the European Council on extending sanctions were necessary, but they must also lead to results. The EU, together with like-minded people, must strangle the money flow of the regime. It is not enough, Mr President, for the Prime Minister to come and consult on just a few more additions to the Fourth Penalty Package when decisions are to be taken in June. There's gotta be more.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-166	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we agree that we should be taken against Belarus. And it is important that we are so that the leadership of Belarus – the non-legitimate – understands that this is unacceptable and that all the Member States and the European Union are united in this. That is why it is now up to the EU to develop additional sanctions – both the listing of individuals and additional sanctions. We'll have to get back to you when it comes. It is absolutely right that this must be met with clarity. This very action is beyond all reasonableness; it is almost incomprehensible that any state is able to get to grips with this. But now it is done, and then we must be clear and stand up for our integrity. So here it is an aircraft that takes off from one capital city of one EU Member State and will land in another and is forced to land in Minsk instead of in Vilnius by two fighter planes. I understand that we are in complete agreement on this, and now we will see what sanctions are coming up and which are being developed within the framework of the work that is now under way. But I think it was good that we got a quick conclusion and didn't have to wait for it. It is a very clear signal to the Belarus leadership that this is unacceptable and that they will see consequences.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-169	Mr President, I would like to I assume, then, that the concept of an emergency landing will not be included in a continuing vocabulary, because that is exactly what the regime has judged it to be about. As happened, Mr President, Russia was also on the agenda. Russia, too, is a country which, under Putin's leadership, acts beyond all borders when poisoning citizens with chemical weapons, murdering journalists and so on. This will come back in June, and the discussion that took place at the European Council must have guided the way in which the report is to be developed and shaped. The five guiding principles have been something that has been recurring since 2016, but here one needs to make a priority. I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister was prepared to make demands for priority among the five principles, because not everyone is equal. We have common issues, Mr President, but we do not have common interests.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-173	Mr President, I would like to As far as the word emergency landing is concerned, I hope that I said what is on the ground – was forced to make an emergency landing. You can call it anything, but I think Kerstin Lundgren and I agree that the behaviour that Belarus committed by using fighter planes to force down the plane – you can call it hijacking or anything – is a terrible abuse. That's what it is. The plane was forced down, and as I understand it was halfway down and closer to Vilnius than Minsk. This was a binding measure that is totally unacceptable. As I said, with regard to Russia, the Commission and the External Action Service will come back with more concrete proposals and what this means. But everyone agrees, and first and foremost we agree on the importance of unity. This also means that all five principles over time are important. They may in some parts and periods be of different importance, but they all matter. We also have some common interests.
i-KspkENNqiQAtW6eZ8VDp5s	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I find it sad that the statement on the climate has been shortened; at least it seems so. As usual, it seems to be the climate that has to strike on the foot when other issues are considered more urgent. As the wording on action to achieve the climate targets is short, I would like to ask the Prime Minister when the climate will come up at the Council next time. In the future, the Prime Minister said in his report. But the climate issue is so important that Europe's leaders must work much more vigorously, including raising targets and ensuring that they are achieved. I would also like to mention Belarus. It is very good that the Council has now taken action against Belarus and called for the imprisoned journalists to be released and given unlimited freedom of movement. The Council has also made several recommendations on extending sanctions against Belarus, for example, in the field of air traffic. But if you look at Arlanda's website you can see that a plane from Minsk will land tomorrow and return even though Belavia's permission to land in Sweden should be temporarily withdrawn. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how it is going to be possible to ban Belarus flights from landing within the EU and to fly across European airspace. Has the Swedish authority, for example, been able to enforce the ban? Turkey is one of the countries that has not introduced any air sanctions against Belarus, but continues to fly as usual between Istanbul and Minsk. Are Sweden and the EU planning to introduce any measures against Turkey or to hold talks with Turkey to persuade it to impose air sanctions against Belarus?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-180	Mr President, I would like to As far as the climate is concerned, I can understand the question. But the reason why one point was deleted is that those countries that do not want to see any increased ambitions wanted to use this point to return almost to the December discussion. In December we had an important strategic discussion where it was clear that we took the decision of principle then, in December, and that it should not be postponed. Nevertheless, Poland and others wanted to reopen the discussion. We said then that a certain discussion about the climate is not wrong but that it must not mean that we move back the positions to December. When the discussion became rather tough on paragraph 5, there was the risk of having a long discussion on the wording of this particular one which could lead to more detailed decisions than we want. That is why we said that we are prepared to remove this point. What it says now is that we nail down what we decided in December. That's the deal. Now the Commission will come up with legislative proposals in a whole package in July that will take this issue further. I cannot repeat the exact timetable for this, but we have heard that it will be at some point in July. The assessment is that the Commission will do it then, and then it will go to the Council. This is exactly the time we wanted: to get away from the detailed discussions in the European Council and ensure that the legislation gets started. Then we can start making decisions. It follows that the point looks shorter, but it is as nuclear as we wanted it. As far as Belarus is concerned and decisions on flights are concerned, as has been said, these decisions are taken by the Authority. I am not familiar with the exact details of the decisions. However, as I understand it, a decision has been taken on bans, and there has been an appeal. Then you have to follow the process further.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the re-report, particularly on environmental issues. I note that the Prime Minister did not mention anything about whether there are any talks with the EU's partner country, Turkey, about Turkey also introducing sanctions and flight bans and stopping flying to Minsk. I hope that the Prime Minister will come back to this. I would also like to mention Gaza. I share the European Council's conclusion that a ceasefire is pleasing, but not the Council's conclusion that this also means an end to violence. Violence and abuse continue with evictions, blockades, occupations and more. Sweden and the EU cannot settle down with a ceasefire, but must continue to work for the protection of civilians and the cessation of blockades and occupation. The EU needs to work much more clearly and better to persuade Israel to agree to a two-state solution.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-189	Mr President, I would like to As far as Turkey is concerned, there was no such discussion at the European Council. I do not know whether the Commission or anyone else will do so. But there was no such discussion. As far as Gaza is concerned, I share the same view as Ilona Waldau. It must be a two-state solution that we are working for and continue to work for. The concern is that such a solution has been made more difficult over time – I am thinking, among other things, of the settlements – and risks being made even more difficult. But we have no other opinion than this, and we stand by it in a united Europe: it is a two-state solution that we must work for. The expression about violence should be seen as the end of this particular violence – thankfully, for so many people are suffering. But that does not mean by any means that the problem is solved, but far from it. We must, of course, continue to engage in order to contribute to a two-state solution.
i-HmxZJn69cyRMtzzUzfjzCA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Unlike the Porto Social Summit, this time the European Council has dealt with subjects which individual Member States do not solve on their own. These are issues where Europe needs to step forward and show a common strength. As far as Belarus is concerned, this is exactly what was done. The measures agreed by the European Council demonstrate the strength that the Union can actually have. They show the importance of a united Europe that can quickly take decisions and can act decisively with the means at its disposal. At the same time, it is regrettable that there has not really been the same clarity towards Russia, which has also partly fallen into the shadow of the airjacking and the capture of Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega. The EU must continue to maintain high pressure on Russia. Although European leaders such as Macron have had problems with the sanctioning tool, which has not led to the desired improvements, the EU and Sweden's line of democracy, human rights and international law must be clear. Whether it be Belarus or Russia, the EU and Sweden must show solidarity with those countries that are particularly affected. This applies, for example, to the Czech Republic, which has been placed on Russia's list of hostile states. Most recently it is Lithuania that is incredibly hard hit. It has even gone so far as to point out that a small country like Lithuania should not be supportive of a country like Russia. It is a message that cannot be misinterpreted: If you continue with this, it will end badly. Lithuania may be a small Member State but is part of something larger: it is the European Union, which must not fail. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there are proposals for measures other than those presented to clarify what has happened. What are the possibilities for the independent international investigation that is now needed?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-197	Mr President, I would like to As far as clarity is concerned, that is why we wanted an international investigation, a proper, thorough one. According to the information I have, the ICAO, among other things, is prepared and wants to do so. It would be very good if you went deep with exactly what happened. I'm afraid we know why it happened. It is absolutely not a legitimate act, but it still needs to be investigated at the bottom. There we are in complete agreement. With regard to Russia, it is also a question of clearly standing up for democracy, human rights and respect for international law. Unfortunately, there we see a worse relationship between the EU and Russia. Not least, Russia itself has expressed it. Foreign Minister Lavrov says that he sees no relationship whatsoever between the EU and Russia. One reason for this is that you do not want one. You want relations with individual countries. We are very clear that here we need to stick together. That is why it is so important that we also stick together. Do not underestimate this! This is no polemic against Sofia Damm, but I want it said: Do not underestimate the importance of us sticking together! We must, and we will continue to do so. That is the second thing Russia probably wants. Then we will also have to look at – and it was also up for discussion – what other tools we have in the event that Russia would continue to provoke. We don't know what's going on in the future. Then we must have more and better tools. This is, among other things, what this report is about to produce. I was initially a little hesitant about a report. Do we need a report? Well, I think it's a good thing we're actually going to have to go through how the five principles have been handled so far and what we're going to do forward. Then we have a better basis when we gather in June. I look forward to that discussion. It is absolutely necessary.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-202	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Unity is important, but is there not still a risk, given all the talk about the restarting of relations, that the line will soften on the part of the European Union? As far as Belarus is concerned, the EU must now be able to hold on to this. What happens if the regime in Minsk does not fold an inch, for example, does not make any release? Will European airlines be compensated for the possibility of perseverance? And was there anything at all discussed at the Council meeting about EU support for the Co-ordination Council or for belarusians who are now risking their lives in exile?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-204	Mr President, I would like to Once again, unity will be important. I think we should stick to it as a line. Let us now see what the reports say for the June European Council. Then we can discuss whether it is enough or not. As far as Belarus is concerned, it is clear that we cannot just think: N u has this decision taken at the European Council, and then it will be as it is. That, of course, will not be the case. It will be followed up, and it will certainly lead to further discussion. As far as the need for further action is concerned, we need to wait and see how this progresses, quite simply. But that we'd settle for a decision like this, and then it'll be-- no. Here it is important to stand up for this – not least, as I said earlier, to stand up for civil society and all the forces inside Belarus that want another development, that want democracy and that stand up for human rights. We'll support them.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-206	Mr President, I would like to This morning in the P1 morning we were able to hear the Belarus opposition politician Pavel Latusjko, who has been living in forced exile in Warsaw for a number of months. He said that he no longer feels safe in a capital city of an EU country. It is, of course, part of the strategy of the Belarus regime: to frighten both those who remain in Belarus and those who have fled the country. My Liberal colleague in the European Parliament Karin Karlsbro usually talks about the three s in terms of EU policy towards Belarus: sanctions, support and solidarity. While the Belarus regime needs to be fought by all means, we must show solidarity with the people of the country with the same frenzy. Through its resolute response, the EU has shown that it is capable of acting hard and hopefully sustainable. My question to the Prime Minister concerns the last paragraph of solidarity. Was it discussed during the European Council's proposal for visa facilitation, for example, for those belonging to the opposition or other forms of support for Belarian civil society?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-208	Mr President, I would like to In answer to the direct question, I can say: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. At first, a lot of time, of course, was devoted to ensuring a reaction to this disgusting act. The focus was on it, and it then resulted in the conclusions on belarusian airspace and what it might be and the release of the two who have been imprisoned. Then, of course, there was also a discussion about the importance of supporting the forces in Belarus that are working for a free and democratic Belarus. It will, of course – as I have said several times before here – be crucial. So there were no concrete proposals on this and this, but I think we should be active in that discussion and make proposals ourselves. Many Swedish organisations, both within the trade union movement and others, are involved in Belarus and our friends there. It is important that they feel support here so that the people of Belarus feel that they are not forgotten. That is what Tikhanovskaya wanted to convey when she was here in November: It is extremely important for these brave people to feel that the outside world is aware of them and is on their side.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-210	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I hope that we can come back to the fact that Sweden will raise the issues of support for civil society and so on at forthcoming EU summits on this subject. Another item on the agenda was the strategic debate on the EU's relationship with Russia. Unfortunately, these issues are linked. After all, it is partly because of the support of the Kremlin that Lukasjenko is able to cling to power. It is still highly unclear what role Russia played in recent days' airjacking, whether it played a role. We don't know that. But was it discussed also specifically including and naming Russia in an international investigation of what happened this weekend?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-213	Mr President, I would like to The possible link was, of course, discussed. But just as Maria Nilsson says, we do not know if it exists, and that is why we want an international investigation that really brings out facts about exactly what happened and who has acted in different ways. Before we know it, it is a bit wrong to discuss precise measures against someone who may not yet be known has been involved. But I fully share the view that there is a clear link here, and that is why we need to work on the question of Russia very strategically. I look forward to the discussion in June when we will continue to go through these five principles and, above all, how to deal with them and use them in the future.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for a clear report. I know that it was a solid agenda at the European Council meeting on issues of security policy, foreign policy and, of course, the pandemic. I'm going to focus on the agenda for climate work, the fate of our time. Now the EU climate law is in place. The law states that CO2 emissions will be reduced by at least 55% by 2030. This is a step forward, but there are still things to be done to achieve the Paris Agreement's 1.5 degree objectives. As part of the EU's green hand, we have an industrial strategy since last year. Now we need to put our energies into re-launching our economy and creating climate-smart jobs. Sweden has a broad industrial structure, is a country of knowledge and an engineering country and is a world leader in many areas of technology and development. Industry accounts for a large part of exports and also value added both for the EU and for Sweden. With still increasing values, we can invest in our common welfare. My question to the Prime Minister is: What do the Prime Minister see as opportunities for Swedish industry when the EU has increased its ambitions in the field of climate change?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-220	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it is a coincidence that there is an increase in ambitions both in the climate and in the industrial field. That is how we have driven it, too: Industry has an important role to play in the climate transition. I think it is very clear, not least in northern Sweden where a number of years ago we had a discussion about whether the industry should remain at all. It applied not only to Sweden but also to other countries. One was misled by a statistic that said that the services sector was growing a lot. It is now doing so, and we should be proud of a strong service sector, but a large part of the service sector grew thanks to industry. So there is a strong connection. As LKAB is now making its huge investments for the future, we see that they will sell their products not only in the world but also in Sweden. Swedish vehicle manufacturing will once be done with steel without coal, and it is clear that it is a success when we build battery factories and there will be more investments of that kind. It also has to do with the fact that we have decided at national level what our focus is on climate policy and that it also includes systematic cooperation between society and industry. We have 22 road maps in as many different sectors in the Swedish industry where the industries and sectors themselves have said: This is how we want to become fossil-free. There is an enormous force in this. It is clear that Swedish industry is facing a very successful period. I'm absolutely convinced of that. I think it is also part of the security of the transition that industry does not disappear and is growing and will create jobs around our country.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for an appealing answer! As a social democrat, I believe that updating the EU's industrial strategy should contribute to the green and digital transition, to strengthening the EU's internal market, to the continuation of sound competition policy and to openness to the outside world. With the EU climate law in place, which the Prime Minister was on, green given and also an industrial strategy, I wonder: How is Sweden's priority to contribute to the EU's common goals?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-227	Mr President, I would like to For us, it is, of course, continuing the development that we stand for and sharing in the strategy and receiving – there are many countries that do a good job. For example, we cooperate a lot with Finland when it comes not least to the forest. There's a lot to do. We shall have our own development, but it is also the case that when we do so together with our friends in the European Union it becomes so much stronger and a much stronger exchange. Then we are careful about what Mr Selin mentions here, namely transparency. It's important to us. You think wrong if you think that you can protect yourself by closing borders around the EU and thinking that it is only that market that applies. It will lead to error. That is one thing that we constantly point out: this must be combined with continued transparency.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-230	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report and the answers to the previous questions. I shall begin by making a comment on the vaccine in my first speech here. I have raised several times that global solidarity is extremely important. Here, Sweden has been very proactive both for the vaccine and for Trade for Health, which is a trade initiative that was certainly not up today but which is part of the global solidarity thinking. It is extremely good that the European Council remains clear. The conclusions state that the European Council calls for intensified work to ensure global and fair access to covid-19 vaccines and support for Covax. These 100 million doses are also promised. It's extremely good. As far as Belarus is concerned, there are almost no words. What is happening is completely up the walls, unacceptable and terrible. It is extremely good that the European Council was able to quickly gather and express itself very strongly and condemn this forced landing or coercion creation. I am pleased that we can also send clear signals from Sweden – I am thinking of the Export Credit Board. The Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government have given the Export Credit Board a new instruction and a new regulatory letter that tightens the requirements for human rights and climate. It now turns out that the new directives are actually working and the Authority is withdrawing the criticised deal with Belarus. It is a very good thing that, taken together, there are clear signals for foreign policy, trade policy and the European Union.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-236	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with the last part. It shows that it can be controlled. We can maintain our management model, and with the right instructions it can be controlled. It was good that we could show it. It was also good that we were able to act quickly. I am pleased, as I said, that in this case it went considerably faster than it has done on other issues when we are to gather our position, but it was so obvious to everyone that this was unacceptable and must be dealt with. As far as the vaccine is concerned, I also share that view. It's important that we hold on to that. No one is safe until everyone is safe, and that is why international vaccination is extremely important. Then we need both to make sure that we can share – we prefer the Covax mechanism and others probably think about other models, but most of them close up around Covax – and to bring up the production volume. That discussion is ongoing. In the EU context, we want to bring up the volume of production so that we know that we have access to this. This has already led to a discussion on how to increase production on the African continent as quickly as possible. There, the EU can be helpful and ensure that it does so so that all continents can feel confident that vaccines are closer than they are today and that there is a completely different capacity than they are today. It is moving in the right direction, but we would like to speed it up.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-241	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for those answers! Of course, I would also like to highlight the issue of climate change. Finally, a climate law is in place. Now we are all waiting with excitement for the package that will come forward in the summer. It is very good that the Prime Minister raised the point that the ambitions must be there. We will probably have to raise them gradually in the future. Of course, it is also extremely important that all countries are involved and that no one is left behind. It is indeed an important issue for competitiveness and prosperity. Speaking of the discussion about the cost, it is certainly a cost now, but if we do not take it now it will be a multiplied cost later. It is a delicate issue when it comes to really getting the whole of Europe involved and having these powerful instruments. I have a thought there; I think it is important that Sweden works with like-minded people and with the Commission to steer the issue forward in a good way.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-244	Mr President, I would like to That's absolutely right. That's how we want to work. We already work with like-minded people, such as Finland, the Netherlands and others. But the question is also where it is most resistance. Among other things, it is based on a legitimate and understandable fear that it is a huge commitment. But sometimes, as I said, it also becomes a smokescreen to avoid doing anything. So I think that dialogue is so important. That is why we point out, not least, the aid that is also granted in relation to the MFF, so that countries see that there is support for the transition that needs to be made. I also argue a lot that you should not see it as just some kind of threat, burden or weight, but also as an opportunity. This is where the welfare of the future lies. I think this is gonna tip over in time. But it wants a structured work.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-247	Mr President, I would like to We are almost getting off a little after a break like this, Mr President. But I think it is symptomatic of the speech of the Social Democrats in a debate of this kind that everything is positive, that everything is going so well and that it is going to be all right. It seems that there are no obstacles, but Swedish food production and Swedish agriculture – everything – are moving in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to I may think that some form of self-examination would be appropriate. Government has been in office for almost seven years, and it is still going the wrong way. We are nowhere near approaching the objectives of the food strategy. The speech pointed out that there are some positive signs, such as an increase in milk production. Yes, but this time it's not because of politics. It's probably more of an effect of it hitting back a little after the 2018 drought. I would say that the impact of political action is non-existent precisely as regards the increase in milk production. Rather, the fact that profitability is good at the moment is due to the increase in milk prices, the rise in meat prices and the high price of cereals. But we now see that the inputs follow. Instead, it is very likely that we will have to reduce production again by next year. It is not, therefore, a matter of politics. Policy should in fact provide better business conditions with reduced regulatory constraints, lower taxes, better predatory policies and more long-term ownership. Do the Social Democrats have no self-examination at this stage? Does the government not see that we are not achieving the objectives of the food strategy, that we are not going to make it?
i-BxZ5Ayb4wyeDzkeEbLiEfb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, John Widegren, for the questions! As for the fact that it would be symptomatic that we are positive, I may say that it is symptomatic that you are negative in the speaker's chair. There is an incredible amount of positive happening. It does, and especially this year. Demand for Swedish goods is increasing. And milk production and the number of dairy cows are finally increasing. They haven't done that in so many years. Member John Widegren also said in the speaker's chair earlier that he does not believe that this is a trend crime. I think so. And I really hope it is. With regard to the positive nature of our Social Democrats, I would like to say that all our efforts in the food strategy and all the action plans put forward are what is being asked for. The action plans are nothing to find out. They are produced after dialogue, dialogue and political initiatives for collaboration. And since we are making all these efforts, it will be noticed that it leads to changes. That is also why we are seeing the positive changes today. The government is investing and doing a lot in this area. That is why we also see the positive effects.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-254	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. I don't want us to be perceived as negative. Rather, I see opportunities for Swedish agriculture. Sometimes it is pointed out, for example, that the climate could be a threat to Swedish agriculture. On the contrary, I believe that we in Sweden will have the climate conditions for farming well and increasing our food production, just as the intentions are in the food strategy. But I come back again to the fact that what we are seeing now, the trend break with rising prices and that milk production may increase a little, is not due to political measures. If you ask common farmers, they do not reply that it is because of the policy measures that production has turned a little around in the past year. There is a great positive attitude towards the food strategy. However, the actual concrete tools for the food strategy are still being called for. It must not just be a beautiful paper somewhere where it says that we have a food strategy according to which we should increase production, increase exports and strengthen our self-sufficiency. That's not where we're going. Mr President, I would like to I therefore believe that every year we are approaching the time when we are supposed to have fulfilled this food strategy. Unless farmers, who are actually going to produce in order to achieve the objectives of the food strategy, feel that they are getting the political tools, how are we going to move forward? So some form of self - examination would be appropriate. The honourable Member also pointed out in her speech that it should be easy to do the right thing. I'm pointing out the percentages that skyrocket. Will we see a downward trend in increasing regulatory burden and administration? Or is it just empty talk, too?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-259	Mr President, I would like to When the government acts, it's never empty talk. In fact, it was under the leadership of the Social Democrats that the food strategy was developed in broad collaboration during the last parliamentary term. It is a long-term strategy for us to have increased Swedish food production. We missed that earlier. Sweden had no food strategy and no one taking the whole food chain into account. This is unique, and it is great that all parties are behind it. In fact, the government is also investing incredibly large sums of money. Between 2020 and 2025 it is a total of SEK 846 million. It will make a difference down at farm level. In addition, the food strategy is actively pursued through the action plans. I would like to highlight the regional action plans, which are around the country. They come closest to those for whom they exist: our food producers. They're incredibly important. You have to work actively on this all the time. If you need new initiatives, new laws, new research and new collaboration, you have to adapt to it. But I can understand why it may be difficult for Mr Widegren to admit that the government has actually done something really good with the food strategy. This was something that the previous, moderate-led government failed to produce. I hope that we can continue to be constructive in politics and continue to work together in order for the food strategy to achieve its objectives.
i-AiDK1yf9v4RBBi32Vna7NZ	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Hans Dahlgren and Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-264	Madam President, I would like The other day, a plane was hijacked in Belarus. It was forced down by the Belarus dictator Aleksandr Lukasjenko. He sent up fighter planes to force the passenger plane down. Now Roman Pr o tasevich, a 26-year-old journalist and democracy activist, and his Russian girlfriend Sofia Sapega have been arrested in Minsk. It was good and necessary for the EU to agree on measures and sanctions against Belarus at the European Council meeting earlier this week. Something else would have been completely unthinkable, and it would have damaged confidence in the EU. Lukasjenko hijacking of the aircraft that went between two EU countries must have consequences and be clearly condemned. It is now important to move forward with further action. The escalation of the situation in Belarus calls for tangible countermeasures.
i-DvFJzr2rwStKVR7rBkKF2j	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall, for the question! There are two sets of sanctions that are up to date after this terrible event. One is further listings of those in Belarus who are responsible for what has happened. The second is targeted economic sanctions against the country to show the seriousness of the European Union's view of this issue. It's two sets. Then, of course, there are additional measures such as the overflight ban and the ban on the Belarus airline landing in EU countries, the international investigations to be carried out and, not least, the support to be given to the civilian population and civil society in Belarus in order for them to feel our solidarity with them in a concrete way.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That was almost the answer to my second question, because I was going to continue with the Belarussian people. People are being tortured in Belarus, and Lukasjenko airjacking is just a further increase in aggression. Recently, the Lukashenko regime has also blocked news sites and introduced media laws that restrict freedom of the press. My second question is precisely what the government is doing to support the Belarus people, the opposition, the free media and democratic development.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-273	Madam President, I would like There is bilateral Swedish support for civil society in Belarus, but also support through the European Union, directly to the freedom movements involved, as well as through contacts with their representatives – now unfortunately in exile in Lithuania in particular, but also in other parts of the European Union. There is a close and, I would say, increasing interaction with these movements so that together we can achieve a better solution for them.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-275	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Morgan Johansson. Studies in Gothenburg show that there are arranged marriages to increase the power of criminal families in Sweden. In the worst mafia style, marriage is arranged by clans in alienation areas. In order to prevent arranged marriages, Denmark already introduced a 24-year rule in 2002. After that, no less than three powerful ghetto packages have been implemented in Denmark to prevent the spread of crime.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-278	Madam President, I would like Now Mikael Eskilandersson wants to use the word On the other hand, I would like to highlight the investments that we are making in the affected residential areas. It is about investing in, for example, schools, leisure activities, social services and other things that can break recruitment to the criminal gangs. Now we have a window created by the fact that, with the police efforts we have made with harsher sentences, more police officers and better tools for the police, we have managed to detain more of the gang criminals than ever before. Now that this window has been opened, it is important to go in with special, targeted efforts to also break the recruitment, and that makes the government powerful. The problem for the right is, I think, that there is hardly ever any response to the prevention of crime. But the government does.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-282	Madam President, I would like During the last 20 years Danish governments have been affected very much by the Danish People's Party, while the Swedish governments have rather been influenced by the Green Party. That is why I would like to put a supplementary question to Morgan Johansson. If he makes a comparison between Sweden's and Denmark's development over the last 20 years, is it Morgan Johansson's view that Sweden has succeeded better in the fight against crime than Denmark has?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-284	Madam President, I would like I am a social democrat, and I work very well with the Danish Social Democratic Government and know very well what has been done there. That is why we are also looking at what Denmark has done in particular, not least with regard to criminal law. We have an ongoing investigation that reviews the penalties for gang crime, and it is specifically tasked with looking at what has been done in Denmark. I think there are things to learn from Denmark, but from the Danish side you can surely also sometimes learn things from Sweden. This is how Nordic cooperation should work.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-287	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with many ponds in our watercourses, large and small. These are installations that have been of great historical importance in producing power for various purposes. Many, of course, are still important today. These ponds are often a unique story of our cultural history, a living history book that cannot be recreated if the dams disappear. There are many interests associated with these environments: nature conservation, outdoor life, cultural history and opportunities for small-scale energy production, which, in particular, this House has established the importance of. These interests obviously stand out against each other, as the water authorities' different views on the WFD action programmes have shown – a work that will in all likelihood again be brought before the government for review. Cultural conservation rarely has large, strong organizations with economic muscles behind them, but is usually driven by non-profit forces. My question to the Minister for Culture is therefore how she ensures that the interests of the cultural environment are safeguarded in these obvious conflicts of interests.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for the question! This is an issue that has been discussed for a long time. Our authorities are well aware of the complexity of these issues and are actively working with them. As the Member of Parliament says, water treatment is often complex. Natural and cultural values can often resist each other, and then it is important both that we have inventories, so that we know what kind of cultural environment we are working on, and that there are guidelines for how such balances should be made. In short, I can say that since the Cultural Heritage Bill, the government has strengthened its work on cultural environments. The appropriations for the work on cultural environmental protection have been raised on a permanent basis, and a number of authorities have been tasked with developing both guidance on how to make such balances and strategies on how to benefit more and preserve cultural environments in different parts of the country.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for your answer. I just want to say that it seems a little illogical for people that, for example, the forest industry can hardly break a twig on a carbon bottom while a government agency such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in my municipality, which owns a pond plant, can apply for removal via a court, with a cultural environment with several hundred years on its back going to nothing. This is a watercourse that is not covered by the WFD. My question is once again: how can the Minister of Culture safeguard the interests of the country in this case?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-295	Madam President, I would like A brief answer to a complex question: We will continue to work. I would like, on the one hand, to highlight the mission given to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to provide guidance on what is the basis for assessment. This is an important step. But it is also important that the Board of Governors has a mandate to cooperate with the county boards and the authorities that have received these in-depth assignments, so that we work broadly and have sufficient decision-making basis and well-prepared guidance when these complex decisions are to be made.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-297	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. On 22 May, Sweden's municipalities and regions asked the government to address a request to the Nordic neighbours for staff support to Swedish intensive care during the summer. It is a tough situation in health care, and the staff have worked extremely hard. In the regions, there are also conditions for setting up the private health care providers with whom the region has agreements under the region in the event of a disaster. This has not happened. During the third wave of the pandemic, 24 people from private health care companies stood up and worked for Region Stockholm, for example. Is it not time for national legislation to include private healthcare companies that have agreements with the region in the region's emergency preparedness in difficult situations?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question! At first I thought it was a lot about the letter itself and the support from our Nordic neighbours. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say that there is no need to talk about the cooperation agreement in this context and that support can be expected in a crisis situation. However, there is of course a very good collaboration and dialogue. But Karin Rågsjö's question is more about private actors. This is, of course, something to look at and to which the report on health care preparedness could come back, but the issue is not relevant in any proposal that is currently being prepared. However, this is a very relevant question, I think, that Karin Rågsjö is asking.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-302	Madam President, I would like While this is happening, we can also see that there are cuts underway in a number of regions with a right-wing majority. Is that not very unfortunate, and does it not send out completely the wrong signals to the staff who have been working so hard for so long?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-303	Madam President, I would like It is very important that you regulate in your agreements that you should have the opportunity to call off aid in different situations. But this is quite complex, and therefore we would certainly have to look at the issue; I share Karin Rågsjö's view on it. Different regions may deal with this a little differently and have different shares of private operators, so they do not have the same starting point in all regions. But I would like to emphasise that this is a very relevant question that Karin Rågsjö is asking.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-305	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Traffic offences are one of the most common forms of crime committed in Sweden. The perpetrators often do so habitually; they relapse and pose a danger to others. Drugs are often involved too. In many cases, innocent people are injured or killed in accidents caused by these irresponsible drivers. Every year many families suffer from grief and loss of family members. Since November 2019 an investigation has been on Morgan Johansson's table. It proposes some more stringent penalties and also a new traffic offence: serious traffic crime. The investigation has been referred, and the referrals have been available since March 2020. Nevertheless, we do not yet have a legislative proposal.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-309	Madam President, I would like It was precisely because we could tighten the regulations that we set up the investigation to which Ingemar Kihlström refers. We have it, and the whole purpose is to have more opportunities for the detention of these people. Above all, it is important to be able to further detain those who relapse in crime, as well as to increase the penalties for this type of crime. The investigation has, as Ingemar Kihlström says, been out for a referral and received a mixed consultation outcome – there have been criticisms on some points. This has meant that we have had to continue working on the proposal in order to be able to put it forward in such a way that it becomes workable legislation. We are now in the final stages of this preparation, and I look forward to seeing that we will be able to go to Parliament with this when we are done with it.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-312	Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, the proposals for legislative changes look promising. Unfortunately, however, there is still no proposal. In connection with the submission of the investigation, the goal was an amended law on 1 January 2021. However, despite the fact that the Minister has said on several occasions that he sees this as a priority issue, the legislative proposal is not ready. Can the Minister of Justice indicate what a realistic time for the change of law is? Can we hope for a more prioritised process so that law enforcement can take effect from 1 January 2022?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-314	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are in the final stage of preparation and will come to Parliament with this when we are finished. I hope we can do it this year. Then we will have to come back to the date of entry into force. But let me just say this: the Ministry of Justice has now delivered more legislative proposals than the vast majority of other departments and, I believe, had a rate of production that exceeds that of the vast majority of previous governments. I think I have put forward a total of almost 300 proposals since I took office as Minister of Justice.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-317	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. It reads: Does the government intend to join Sweden in the intensified campaign of the World Health Organisation against ageing, the prejudiced view of years-rich, and then with a focus on health care? The reason why the WHO went out with this intensification in March is to see how high the cost of ageism causes in health care. The United States has seen that the six most serious diseases involve USD 63 billion a year. It is therefore a considerable amount of money. Are we going to follow up on this in Sweden?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-319	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Barbro Westerholm, for the question and for never giving up on these questions! Ageism is a way of describing the discrimination that exists in society against people who are age-rich, year-rich, life-rich and rich in experience and knowledge in so many different ways. I want to say that we need to work on this in many different ways, and so do we in Sweden. The specific question put by Mr Westerholm cannot be said that we have taken a position on this at present. However, I would really like to emphasise that these issues are very much alive. The pandemic has indeed made it clear that there are groups in society that have been allowed to stand back and cannot just go and wait for better times. I would also like to emphasise the efforts made in the area of care for the elderly. After all, medical care also targets older people. In the fixed-line reform, which after all Barbro Westerholm's party is very involved in, the focus is that the elderly should go first. We're trying to be that way of thinking.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-322	Madam President, I would like Out of the seven grounds for discrimination, ageism – the prejudiced view of us year-long people – is the basis of discrimination which, according to the WHO, is most difficult to do anything about. Then it feels extra serious when it is seen as clearly in health care as in the United States. In Sweden, we also see this in the chronological age limits that are applied in a way that is not based on the individual.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-323	Madam President, I would like I would also like to emphasise that the use of chronological age limits or referring to them in healthcare is in fact not compatible with the provisions of the Health Act on care as needed. Regardless of how we should approach the WHO initiative, there is no doubt that there are costs associated with this, but I also think we should talk about how people are actually limited in their way of life. So there are also economic gains to be made, but I want us to put the individual at the centre. We shall continue to do so, because it is a ground of discrimination that we should not accept.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-325	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. For me, it is extremely important that the tax resources we spend on health care are actually used for it. I believe that most of the Swedish people share this view with me. Recently, we have seen reports of healthcare and care companies who have received state corona support while owners and management earned big money, for example through bonuses. I think it can be said that this shows bad judgment and that it is immoral, but I think the question is bigger than that. It points out that we need more transparency in the use of our tax funds. In regions and municipalities, the principle of public access applies. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: is the Minister prepared to make proposals that this could also apply to private health care?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Nilsson, for the question. I am, like the questioner, quite convinced that this is something that upsets very many very deeply. You think you're working and you're doing the right thing, and you're paying taxes. Then there are activities that think they have the right to use tax revenue in a different way from the legislator or decision-maker. As early as 2015, we investigated whether the principle of public access to public health care should apply in all publicly funded health care, and we made proposals to Parliament in 2016. As far as I know, the majorities have not changed since then, when the proposal was rejected, but it is, of course, possible to raise the issue again if the majorities in Parliament change or if many express these ideas. Let me say, however, that although the issue is focused on state aid, it is tax money just like so much else. Tax funds may have different purposes, but if they are to go to care for the elderly, I share the unanimous view of the Social Committee that they should also go there. We need to stand for this in full.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Yes, from the point of view of the Minister for Social Affairs, I just thought that the whole committee has said together that this is extremely important. It is important that it is examined where the money goes, and in some cases it should be refunded if it has not gone to what it is intended for, for example in the case of government spending on care for the elderly. That is why I think there should be an opening for such a proposal. Then I wonder: Is the Minister prepared to do so in the near future?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that this is not part of the January agreement that we are working on, but the issue is still incredibly urgent. Should it turn out that there is support in this House, it is not difficult for the government to come back. Our view has not fundamentally changed: the funds we set aside for welfare should go to welfare. If it is then a matter of public or private health care, it should actually be subordinate, but it is of course affected by the majority in this House.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-335	Madam President, I would like Good care is important. Proper care at the right time is just as important. We Moderates put the patient's best interests first, and we want Sweden to have high quality care – but it should also be available when you need it. In Sweden it is actually prescribed by law when you are going to get your care. This guarantee of care has deteriorated significantly since 2014. Keep in mind that it was bad even before the pandemic. The queues were long already then. Madam President, I would like Care queues in specialist care have doubled in recent years. It should be clear to the government that action is needed. Who is the performer should play a relatively small role in life and death.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heindorff, for the question. Let me stress that before the pandemic, which of course has made the situation enormously difficult and extended the time that people have to wait for non-emergency care, we had a situation where more and more regions actually gave care more quickly than they had done in the same month of the previous year, which reduced the queues. Then we got a pandemic, and it puts us in a unique position. Now Ulrika Heindorff specifically asked how the private can help. Let me stress that the majority of the Swedish people live in municipalities where Ulrika Heindorff's party The Moderates run together with among others the Christian Democrats. There is, of course, every opportunity to ensure that private actors are involved and that agreements are constructed that help each other. Then I would like to emphasise that, regardless of who is the principal – it is the regions that are the principals of health care – we will, of course, do everything we can to help each other. It is about resources but also about staff. How do you ensure that staff get the right conditions?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-342	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today, there are a lot of restrictions on private carers in the regions. Production ceilings are set and so on where the number of operations is limited. Even if you want to help, you must not do so as a private health care provider. The question therefore remains: what do the government and Lena Hallengren intend to do on this issue?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-343	Madam President, I would like It'll be a strange question. Obviously, who is the performer should not be so essential, but who is the principal is very important? If regions have a lot of private operators who have signed contracts where they do not cooperate, are not helped and where private operators cannot help because production has been capped – this is something that each region has to respond to. Of course, there should be the possibility of helping each other. If there is a moderate interest in the private actors being forced to contribute more in the way Karin Rågsjö asked about before, I think it would be very exciting to see how the Left and the Moderates can agree on this.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-345	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Lena Hallengren. Sweden has survived the pandemic worse than our Nordic neighbours. Unfortunately, it is no secret about the number of infected and deceased. Reports have been pointing out the shortcomings in Swedish preparedness for more than ten years. Early in the pandemic, it was clear that Sweden's preparedness was poor in terms of both protective equipment and medicines. Among other things, there was a lack of anaesthetics. Then we had to get help from Norway, who sent us extra deliveries. Now we can also note that the situation in Swedish intensive care continues to be very strained and that several hospitals have appealed for Sweden to take help from its neighbouring countries to cope with the care situation during the summer. This means that SKR asks the government to send a letter and make a request. How does the Minister view the fact that we may now need to ask for international support in order to meet the needs of healthcare in the country?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, for the question. I have to say that it may mix both one and the other. We are constantly comparing ourselves with Nordic countries which, I think, can rightly be described as countries that have survived the pandemic. But in a global and international perspective they really stand out. It is not quite the case that Sweden stands out in a European or global perspective. For example, when it comes to over-mortality, we are considerably lower than the vast majority of counties in, for example, the EU. I also think that it is mixed up in terms of preparedness and the precise question from Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, which is about whether people can manage intensive care during the summer. One must not confuse a situation where it is tough, where staff have worked hard and where they need to rest and get a holiday with a disaster situation where we are asking for international support. That's not what it looks like. We have discussed many times in this House: why are so many Swedish nurses going to Norway to work? When we got borders to Denmark, we wondered how Danish health care would survive. I'll have to continue in my next line.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-354	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that the Minister does not want to compare us with our Nordic neighbours, but it cannot be overlooked that we now need international support or assistance. It must also be seen as a measure of how we have managed pandemic management. This is therefore also a question of the level of preparedness you should have had. Nevertheless, I would like to ask how the Minister explains the fact that we now need help while our neighbours can actually offer it.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-356	Madam President, I would like One minute is a short time. Half a minute is even shorter. Sweden is not asking for international aid – let me say it! But SKR would very much like to have the opportunity to get support from intensive care personnel who would like to work in Sweden, just as Norway is happy to take Swedish nurses to help and in the same way as Swedish health professionals have gone over Sundet throughout the pandemic. It's not a crisis. There are no agreements or situations that we can alert. Of course, there is every opportunity to recruit staff. There are no barriers between us, but there are all the conditions here, if you like on both sides.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-358	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Since 2015, Sweden has had constant border controls against Denmark. It is border controls that take police resources from all over the country and which create obstacles for border commuters in the Öresund region. Border controls were introduced in connection with the refugee crisis. It is a crisis that has long been over. However, border controls remain, and they continue to take police resources from all over the country. The government says that there is a threat to Sweden and that is why they must remain. However, according to Säpo, there is no major threat to Sweden than to any other EU country, and in other EU countries these border controls are not left. I would therefore like to hear from the Government why border controls cannot be removed and what concrete threats there are against Sweden that Säpo does not know.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-361	Madam President, I would like It is true, as Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen says: we introduced border controls primarily to control migratory flows in 2015. There were at times 10,000 a week in November 2015. This was absolutely crucial for us to be able to create that control. It is also true that it has been a long time since we had this refugee crisis. We're through it for a long time. But then the question of the whole terrorist threat in the EU came up. It has been in view of the – terrorist offences and other international organised crime – that these border controls have continued to be justified. I think there are reasons for this to continue. Now we have a pandemic situation, but when we are through it and start a discussion about removing border controls, we must have something else to replace them with. There are some different ways to go, but so far we are not prepared to remove them.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-364	Madam President, I would like We can see from the figures from the police that the number of people arrested and weapons etc. found at border controls is very small. It is nothing new that the Government has a little difficulty listening to the Öresund region. However, he may listen a little more often in the Stockholm region. Then you can ask: Why does the Government think it is better for police officers to look at commuters in the Öresund region than to look at gang criminals shootings in Stockholm?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-365	Madam President, I would like I'm from the Öresund region myself. I live there. My experience is the opposite. I believe that there is very strong support, not least in Skåne, for these border controls, not least in view of the fact that the number of burglaries in southern Sweden decreased by almost 30% in a single year when we implemented this. So we also got to a part of international crime. I think there is quite a lot of support – there may not always be among commuters, although it is now much easier for them to handle this – in southern Sweden for this.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-367	Madam President, I would like Recently, the Belgian citizen and mother of young children Zozan were expelled from Sweden despite the fact that she has both husband and children here. Now the Finnish Immigration Service has decided to expel Turkish Kawa to Turkey because his wife, the Swedish civil servant Rozerin, is alleged to be a threat to Sweden. Rozerin is highly pregnant with the couple's other children. Zozan and Rozerin's crimes are that they have a Kurdish origin and that they have taken a stand for the Turkish party HDP and against the attacks on Kobane. Another thirty people of Kurdish origin are at risk of the same treatment.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-369	Madam President, I would like This is, in fact, the responsibility of Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg, but I think I can still answer with regard to the legislation, because I had it earlier. We never comment on individual matters and especially not on security matters, but I dare say: It is never the case that Sweden is showing someone just because of some party sympathies, but there is also other information that is always at the bottom of that kind of decision. Without going into any detail, I would like to reassure the public about this. I believe that the order we have is, after all, based on fundamental legal certainty, and I stand by that order. But it is never the case that people should be expelled just for what they think, but there is also other information at the bottom.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-372	Madam President, I would like Both Zozan and Rozerin claim that they have in no way been active in recent years. They have done little more than take part in occasional demonstrations. A big problem is also that when the Migration Agency makes decisions based on Säpo's statements, the people do not even get the opportunity to defend themselves or comment on it. They must not even know what they are accused of or why they are judged to be a threat, which I think should be self-evident in the rule of law.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-374	Madam President, I would like Again, I cannot go into individual cases. But the experience I have, having seen many of these matters, is that it is never the case that there is only one expression of opinion at the bottom. There is also other information at the bottom of such matters. These cases are also being tried in court, so they have access to all the information you need to make an assessment of whether an individual constitutes such a security...
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-376	Madam President, I would like The aeroplane creation in Belarus is a new level of ruthlessness for arresting regime critics. The incident shows that even those in the EU are not safe and that it is probably not far-fetched to assume that one of the aims of the Minsk regime was to scare the courage out of the exiles. When Mr Lukasjenko spoke in the Minsk Parliament yesterday, he did not just defend the hijacking. He also had a direct warning to other oppositionists who have sought refuge in exile. It said: We know who you are, and it is only a matter of time before we get hold of you. Many exiles are located in neighbouring Lithuania, and it is clear from the past that both Russian and belarusian security services are engaged in completely unqualified actions within the EU.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the question. Of course, it is a terrible existence to sit perhaps in Vilnius, just a few miles from Belarus, knowing that a plane going down to land in Vilnius was stopped by the Belarus Air Force. You wonder what Lukasjenko will do next. We need to support civil society in Belarus, as I mentioned earlier in the reply to Mrs Roswall, but we also need to have close contact and gladly provide as good protection as possible to activists in Vilnius but also in other parts of the EU countries. It is, of course, a matter of both financial and moral support, but I also think that we need to look at the opportunities we have to provide support in the area of security. I believe that international cooperation in the field of security between police authorities, prosecutors and so on is a huge asset for us in the European Union in this context.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-383	Madam President, I would like If Lukasjenko thinks it is worth involving the security services and the air force to kidnap a 26-year-old journalist, it is no wonder that every human rights fighter now feels an incredible worry. We can assume that the KGB has had agents in place in Greece and Lithuania for a long time. We can also assume that they monitor many of the Belarus who live in exile in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Sweden. Europe must act for their security, and I thank Mr Dahlgren for his answer. But how does Hans Dahlgren view EU support for the coordination council? What should it look like?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-385	Madam President, I would like I did not quite understand the end of Sofia Damm's question, but I can say that I very much hope that the international investigation that is now to be launched will create the greatest possible clarity as to who is behind this. On Monday, I heard from the Lithuanian President who was at the Brussels Summit that it was not just these two people who were imprisoned when they got off the plane. Three more people stayed in Minsk. You wonder what one of them was.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-387	Madam President, I would like My question is also addressed to the Government and the EU Minister Hans Dahlgren. The pandemic and the accompanying restrictions affect, as everyone knows very well, mobility in different ways – local, regional, national and also at EU level. But as people are vaccinated – and the vaccinations are going at a furious pace, which is positive – the conditions also change. I am thinking of the discussions that exist about the digital travel certificates in Europe, that is, the vaccination cards. Does the Government have the opportunity to report on the progress of the EU's work on travel certificates?
i-3KAgBY6goWRPetk66BEyu9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Wiechel, for the question! In fact, I can give you a positive answer here. Work on the covid certificates has gone surprisingly fast, and it has gone well. A week ago there was a political agreement between the Council and the European Parliament on the content of these certificates, so now we know what it will be like. The formal decisions are already taken in June and the Regulation will enter into force on 1 July. This is to facilitate travel so that we can return as quickly as possible to free movement within our Union. It will be easier to travel, simply. The idea is that countries that have had different kinds of travel restrictions should be able to lift them for people who can present these covid certificates. It is particularly countries in southern Europe that have been very concerned about this, but I think that we all around the Union look forward to the day when free movement can be restored. It should also be said that it is not a requirement that you have a covid certificate to travel. If you're not vaccinated, you can show this.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-393	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. That's good news. Of course, reduced mobility and border barriers have social, political and economic consequences for cooperation. Is there anything to say about the prognosis? I understand that these are difficult to assess factors based on the spread of infection and other things, but is there anything that is believed about the course of mobility in the future?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Wiechel, for the question! No, I'm afraid of any such predictions. This pandemic has always shown unexpected features. It's gone up and down. It has been a first wave, a second wave and a third wave, and we really hope that we do not have a fourth wave. The only thing I really dare to hope for is that we are moving towards greater mobility. But when it comes and how fast it can go, we'll see.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-398	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we were able to take note of the Crime Prevention Council's report on how Sweden stands out in a European comparison of firearms violence. Not infrequently are minors involved in this violence. Last week, a 19-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of a murder in Örebro earlier this year. The suspect is sentenced to closed juvenile care for two cases of attempted murder but was on the run from Sundby youth home in Västmanland, where he was placed after last summer had been freed from a youth home in Skåne. It is clear that the safety of youth homes is fraught with serious shortcomings. Last year, there were 26 escapes of people sentenced to closed youth care, and the number of incidents of threats and violence in the institutions has increased dramatically in recent years.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-402	Madam President, I would like The short answer is shortly. In fact, we waited for Parliament's position when we wrote the directives, because we wanted to see what Parliament said and what the announcement would look like so that we knew what framework we have to stay within. Of course, I share the view on the substance that we need to do a great deal in the field of youth care, both in terms of the content of care, how to strengthen and increase the safety of youth homes and what legislation is in the bottom line. Here I share responsibility with the Minister of Social Affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs is responsible for the youth services themselves, and I am responsible for the legislation. We are now working on an investigation directive, and now that we know what Parliament has said, we will be able to set up this investigation shortly. I believe that there is a great need to review both legislation, after-care and safety in the institutions we are talking about.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-406	Madam President, I would like No one has escaped the crisis management that the Swedish Radio went through all over last week. An Islamist has had a close relationship with a journalist and reporter in a newsroom. Swedish Radio is not just any media company. They have a special mission in crisis preparedness and are part of our total defense. For this reason, it is particularly worrying that a person who is a security threat may have infiltrated the only radio channel to report in the event of a crisis. Several parties, together with a unified media corps, have called for an independent, external investigation to begin as soon as possible. However, the Minister for Culture has been worryingly quiet on this issue. When will the government set up such an investigation? This question is something other than a staff matter.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-409	Madam President, I would like Sveriges Radio is an independent media company. It is not up to me or the government to interfere either in how the business is conducted or in what publicist decisions are made. Such attempts would be an interference with constitutionally protected editorial independence and would run counter to the principles of public service governance. I think it would be a very inappropriate idea if the state would like to initiate public service audits between the points where we establish broadcasting permits for public service. It would undermine the independence of public services, and it is, of course, up to Swedish Radio itself to deal with the situation that has arisen as they see fit. If they want to initiate an external audit, there is nothing to prevent them, but it would be very inappropriate for the government to take such an initiative.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-412	Madam President, I would like There were probably many of us bouncing on Sunday when news came that a civilian aircraft with the help of a fighter aircraft and an imaginary bomb threat had been forced down over Belarus and two oppositionists had been captured by the Belarus security service KGB. Airplane creation has led to strong condemnation from the outside world. Following the fraudulent elections in August last year, the EU sought to rally itself to impose sanctions on Lukasjenko regime in Belarus. It didn't go very well that time. Cyprus, where Russia has strong economic interests, was blocked by reference to their problems with Turkey's aggressions. In this way, the EU lost important strength in condemning the regime. Once the sanctions came in, they were too weak and too few. Now there is talk of extending sanctions against the Belarus regime, especially against the companies that finance the regime. Will the EU act quickly and resolutely this time and impose sanctions on the two state energy companies Minskenergo and Brestenerg o after the Export Credit Board, EKN, has just decided to withdraw from a criticised affair?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-415	Madam President, I would like I thank Håkan Svenneling for the question. I believe that there is a great opportunity to do a wise job in the preparation that is now under way within the EU system between the EEAS and the Commission in order to find out exactly how to best target the sanctions. I cannot comment on which companies it will be, but I am sure that you are doing your best to be as accurate as possible. I very much hope that we will avoid a repetition of what happened last autumn after the so-called elections in Belarus. It is embarrassing for the European Union not to be able to be more forceful in foreign policy action. We have also seen other examples of how bad things can go when a Member State could not even be involved in appealing for a ceasefire in the Middle East after the terrible scenes that took place there a few weeks ago. We need to tighten up the EU's foreign policy.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-419	Madam President, I would like The Code of Ethics of the Medical Association sets out the following in Rule 2: a doctor should consider the importance of protecting human life and should never take measures aimed at speeding up death. ..................................................... We could this week in a study that the Medical Association has done see that there has been a slip in the Swedish medical profession. It is more fragmented today than before. The Medical Association is fundamentally negative to euthanasia, and the reason for this is according to the website: Death aid should not be society's response to suffering and is not in line with the purpose of health care. ..................................................... I share that view. However, on the basis of the inquiry, there is reason to examine the views of the Minister for Social Affairs on the matter. Can we continue to expect euthanasia not to be allowed and that the purpose of care is also in the future to protect human life?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-422	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for the question. A very brief answer is that I share Acko Ankarberg Johansson's view on the matter. It is not a matter of polls or surveys in various trade unions or the public, but there may be a majority in this House who may need to change such positions. But I and the Social Democracy will not be the driving force on these issues.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-424	Madam President, I would like Migration to a country needs to be based on integration conditions. Sweden has received disproportionately many protection applicants compared to other EU countries. Now the government has taken steps to significantly reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden, but national measures are not enough. Migration is a global and European matter. In October 2020, the European Commission presented its proposal for a new migration and asylum pact in the EU. The Pact has a comprehensive approach that includes all aspects of migration, asylum, border management, return and more. It is also emphasised that the asylum system should be based on responsibility and solidarity between the Member States, which is important for us in Sweden. I would therefore like to ask the following question to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson: how do you view the proposals in the Pact, and which are particularly important for Sweden?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-427	Madam President, I would like It is true that Sweden previously took disproportionate responsibility. When I took office as Minister of Migration, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Then the population of Sweden is about 2 per cent. It's disproportionate. Today, Sweden receives about 3% of those who come to the EU, and we are therefore about where we should be in proportion. This is the result, among other things, of the decisions that were taken when there was a tightening up and we got control of this again. Once we have gained control of migration in Sweden, we must also gain control in the European Union. I therefore welcome the proposals that have now been made by the European Commission in its main parts. They lead to increased border control, increased European solidarity and more effective return. These are proposals which basically safeguard the right of asylum but at the same time ensure that those who do not need protection return to their home countries. Basically, I welcome this.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-429	Madam President, I would like During the entire pandemic, Swedish intensive care personnel have worked under harsh working conditions – many without recovery. Now comes the summer, and the staff need their expected leave. While the need for iva staff is high, given the pandemic, the care debt for patients waiting for care grows. The Queues were a known fact even before the pandemic, and they have now escalated. Last week, SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, sent a letter to the government to present a national request to our neighbouring countries for staff support to Swedish intensive care during the summer. This can be a way to secure intensive care this summer but also a way to ensure that our intensive care staff will be able to cope with the growing health debt in the future.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I have come into this question on several occasions. Let me be clear: it would be desirable if all the members of the Swedish Parliament were also well aware that it is not possible to ask only one question to one country and then send the country staff, but this is specifically regulated in the Nordic cooperation agreement. Then it's a matter of disaster. We agree with the countries that disaster situations do not exist in a situation where people rightly feel that they want the opportunity to have time for recovery and vacation. It is not, however, a disaster in which you can expect to get help. On the other hand, there is every opportunity to recruit, cooperate and try to act in the way we do all the time, namely to work across borders. There are no obstacles whatsoever. Let me also say that there is a challenge ahead of the summer and a challenge ahead. Of course, all those who lead our municipalities and regions have a great deal of work to do, and in that we will help each other.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-437	Madam President, I would like Several heavy criminals in Sweden have been convicted and locked up because Europol has managed to hack into the Encrochat system and intercept its users. However, Swedish law prohibits preventive interception. Had it not been because the French police had been granted the opportunity to listen to people without concrete criminal suspicions, not so many gang criminals would have been convicted in Sweden and the number of shootings temporarily went down. The government talks about HDA as a game changer, but the Swedish legislation regarding HDA and Encrochat has nothing to do with each other. A breakthrough similar to that in France is not possible in Sweden because of the restrictions proposed by the government itself. If the Swedish police had performed the same operation, they would have risked prosecution for serious computer breaches. Is it Morgan Johansson's view that the Swedish legislation has enabled the success of Encrochat in the fight against gang crime? If not, does the government intend to propose any changes to the regulatory framework?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-440	Madam President, I would like As a result of the efforts we have made in recent years, Sweden has more police officers than ever, the police have more resources than ever, and more severe penalties are imposed than before in modern times for such crimes. There are also more detainees than ever. In fact, it was even before Encrochat. The prison and institutions were already filled in 2018– 2019. Thus, many of the measures we implemented last term of office had an impact already in 2018 – 2019. Then Encrochat has come on top of this, which is positive. But now the police have better tools than the Swedish police have ever had, including wiretaps. Katja Nyberg mentions secret data reading. I claim that this really is a game changer to the great benefit of the police when it comes to clearing up these crimes. Of course, we will continue to develop both resources and tools for the police in the future to put...
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-443	Madam President, I would like In 2016, the Government issued a regulatory letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency with directives to break the development of the number of assistance hours. The Authority acted by starting to interpret old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015 much more restrictively than it has done in the past. National statistics show that rejection decisions began to accelerate sharply after 2016, and thousands of people with extensive disabilities have been extremely badly affected when they have lost their right to assistance due to the stricter case law. I am therefore surprised when the Minister of Social Affairs repeatedly, no later than yesterday, says that people who have had assistance in the past have lost it without political decisions being taken. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: is it the general view of the Government that a letter of regulation is a non-political decision that is not expected to have an impact on the agency's activities, or is it only applicable in this specific case?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. A regulatory letter cannot be above legislation. I am convinced of this in this case and in other cases. Legislation applies, but the legislation can be examined. That is also what has happened not least in the LSS, as Pia Steensland and I have discussed many times. It is therefore not legislation that has been amended, but judgments that have been examined and practices developed. If you break a development where you've seen an increase in quite a short time – and that meant that not so many more people received assistance but that they got the more hours – it deserves to be looked at to see what it was due to. If it were the case that the regulatory letters were in any way above the law, one might think that it should have had the same effect when this was then removed. I would strongly argue that this is about the fact that the legislation has not changed but that we have had changes in practice. We are working incredibly hard to make sure that the legislation is amended, which is the tool that Parliament and the Government have to use to change in an area where you are not satisfied with what it looks like.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-449	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. Last year, at the Government's proposal, it was decided to strengthen the protection of minority shareholders in limited liability companies and minority members of economic associations, such as housing rights associations. The Swedish Companies Registration Office shall be able to appoint a special reviewer in a limited liability company or an economic association without first examining the matter at a general meeting and without at least one tenth of the shareholders or members supporting the application. The aim is, among other things, to make it more difficult for boards to oppose minorities' right to independent scrutiny of their activities. There are cases where housing associations are subject to fraud. The latest example is a suspicion of fraud in a newly formed tenant-owners' association in Sollentuna. In this case, it was possible to use the government's new legislative amendments to request a review of the Swedish Companies Registration Office. How does the Government see that housing rights associations are exposed to this type of crime?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-452	Madam President, I would like We take it seriously, of course, and that is the background to the legislative changes we have made. This case is from Sollentuna, and we have previously seen examples in Malmö where tenant-owner associations have been more or less hijacked by people with some shady, I would say, interests. It was precisely in order to avoid and prevent such situations that we pushed through this legislation, which allows a minority to require a special examination of the housing association and its financial management in order to detect irregularities in time or if some form of crime is about to creep into the association. We will continue to develop the legislation here; we are working on proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market, which include stricter requirements on the financial level, certification providers and pre-contractual agreements. It provides additional security to those who are ready to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. We continue to follow this.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-455	Madam President, I would like With the impact of vaccinations, we now hope to see the light in the tunnel. We all yearn for both cultural experiences and sports of different kinds, the importance of which for our quality of life has really been flashed during the pandemic when we have not been able to take part of them in the same way as before. The Government intends to allow the re-opening of Sweden to take place in several stages, and that is a good thing. The only problem is that, for culture and sport in particular, it does not seem to be fully appropriate provisions that will apply from 1 June. The roofs are static for both indoor and outdoor audiences and do not take into account the size of the venue or arena or the number of seats. For example, no more than every hundred seats at Fr i ends Arena can be used – you can only be 500 in the audience, even though the arena can accommodate 50,000 seats. This is exactly the same limit as for Gavlevallen in my county of Gävle, which has 6,400 seats.
i-NPS1WAMtsBWsuL64QwPDva	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Viktor Wärnick! We are all pleased to finally have the new, more accurate regulatory framework in place on 1 June. It is not true that the regulatory framework does not take into account the size of the stadium, because it does so indirectly. With the Swedish Public Health Authority issuing regulations and requirements for distance between seats, you cannot take in as many in a small basement room, for example, as in a large arena. We now also finally distinguish between off- and indoor activities. We are working on the further steps. On the advice of the Public Health Agency, the proposal is to proceed to the next level on the basis of participation ceilings, although substantially increased, and then completely remove them at the next stage. This is, of course, something that we are constantly working on, and I have a close dialogue with both smaller and larger actors in the field of culture and sport – as has the Public Health Agency – to see how the regulations can be adapted so that the rules are not tougher than what is required for disease protection. We are all delighted with the steps that will soon be taken.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-461	Madam President, I would like The Ikea murder in Västerås, the terror on Drottninggatan and then the insanity act, or the act of terror, in Vetlanda where only millimetres separated the life and death of innocent victims – in common for these are migration-related crimes that should never have been allowed to happen. The information on the Afghan perpetrator in Vetlanda shows that he applied for asylum in Sweden as an unaccompanied minor, born in 1999 – this after having first been rejected in Norway as an adult, born in 1988. I would therefore like to ask Minister for Migration Johansson: how can it be that an adult man who has no reason for asylum in Norway receives asylum as a child in Sweden, and why are there gaps in the law that mean that the Migration Agency does not immediately send asylum seekers back to safe countries like Norway?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-463	Madam President, I would like Of course, I cannot comment on individual cases, but the legislation is clear: if you have applied for asylum in a country within the European Union, which we are now talking about, that is also the case. Then it is the Dublin rules that apply, and then you will be sent back there. This works in the vast majority of cases, I dare say. There is also good Nordic cooperation in this area. I don't know what happened in this particular case-- it's up to the Migration Agency to answer, but that's the rule. It is important that this is the case, because we cannot have a system where you can go around seeking asylum in different countries and, so to speak, test your way through. It's not supposed to work that way. Of course, what has happened in this particular case cannot be answered, but it must be up to the Migration Board to do. I can answer for what the legislation looks like, and it looks like the following: If you have applied for asylum in another EU country, it is also the EU country that will examine your asylum application, and that is simply what will apply.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-465	Madam President, I would like It is known that the government plans to annex large parts of the mountain forest up in Norrland. It is, of course, an extreme infringement of property rights and a tragedy for all families who have been running their forestry for generations. I understand that it is the Green Party that is pushing this forward, but my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is: when will the Minister of Justice bring to life the parliamentary committee on which the Parliament addressed an announcement to the government in June 2019, on the basis of the report of the Constitutional Committee KU27? The parliamentary committee must therefore strengthen property rights and property protection.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-467	Madam President, I would like I think we have had a couple of interpellation debates on this in which I have answered precisely this question. Ownership, as it is designed in the form of government, i.e. the constitution, is an agreement between all parties who sat in parliament at that time. The Moderates were part of this. We have an agreement that ownership will be regulated as stated in the Constitution. I intend to stand by the agreements that I have, and that my party has, with regard to the constitutions. I also expect the Moderates to abide by their constitutional agreements. If you're going to tear this up and change your mind on these issues, it's actually a pretty big thing. In order to solve what Kjell Jansson mentioned, I do not see that it is constitutional changes that we should discuss, but rather the actual discussion and how the legislation regulates these issues. Do not go in and poke into the constitutions, for then you deviate in the Moderates from the settlement that you are actually bound by!
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-471	Madam President, I would like As a consequence of the government's migration policy, two Afghan asylum seekers raped a 14-year-old girl in Central Sweden. They were never supposed to come here, but they did. Now they've ruined a 14-year-old girl's life. Morgan Johansson's punishment for them was embarrassing: a year and a half. Now they have served the sentence, but both Afghans are still in Sweden. One of them was not sentenced to expulsion when he was considered to be connected. The other was convicted but is not expelled when he refuses to covidtest himself or vaccinate himself.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-474	Madam President, I would like It is never the law itself that commits crimes, but it is always individuals who commit crimes. It is those who are guilty of their crimes – no one else. This is important to emphasise. We basically have a good system of expulsions. We show 600 – 700 people a year – about two a day. Of course we have encountered problems during the pandemic. Some countries have opposed this and have also made demands, including co-testing. I think this is a problem, and we need to address it. We will not be able to get to grips with new legislation, because we do not have time to do that. There are also constitutional aspects to which consideration must be given. However, with regard to the country in question, Afghanistan, I intend to initiate a dialogue with the ambassador in Afghanistan to discuss the restrictions imposed by Afghanistan and the regulations that it has. I believe that the expulsion of convicted persons must be able to function in this country. Such an initiative will be taken shortly.
i-5moiGjXqYeqpYZyTgRTZDg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your speech. I have two questions. Malin Larsson mentioned the boar package in her speech. I think it is nice that the government is finally getting to grips with this issue, if you put it that way. However, it is not enough to come to the shots, but it is also a matter of being accurate. As I understand it, the government is planning to allow private hunters to sell ten plus ten animals directly to the public. It is a very good simplification of the rules, but why stop at that? Why ten plus ten and not an unlimited number? That is one question. The second issue, which is also about accuracy, concerns antibiotic resistance, which Malin Larsson raised in her speech. There Sweden has done a great job at home, and now Sweden will help to partially solve the situation in the outside world. It's very good, but it's very hard to turn this around-- it's like a supertanker. I would like to ask whether the government has considered measures against the spread of antibiotic-resistant strains. We already have a very low consumption of antibiotics in Sweden. It's on the verge of what we might have-- can we even lower it more? The question then arises of the tribes that now exist in the outside world. These tribes can come to Sweden. Is there any work that the government intends to do to prevent these tribes from coming to Sweden?
i-6gztf4wW5e2DZ4WC4NJNsf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the questions! The wild boars and the meat from them are an issue that we have been working on for a long time and which we have also followed here in Parliament. The number of wild boars has increased explosively, and we must overcome them. At the same time, wild boars are a fantastic opportunity for climate-smart food. It is an amazingly good meat, and it is important that we get it on the market so that more consumers have the opportunity to buy and eat wild boar meat. As I said in my debate post, this creates an incentive for hunters to shoot more boars, so I see some possibilities here. After all, we already have the agreed wild boar package, which came in Action Plan 2 for the Food Strategy. The work is now being strengthened by an additional 20 million, including to subsidise the cost of trichinae analyses. With great joy I could see that the restaurant that I have closest to me in the place where I live had Swedish wild boar meat on the menu. Now it didn't say Swedish, but I asked – it was Swedish. I will return to the second question in the next speech.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-489	Madam President, I would like Malin Larsson did not really answer my question. Why stop the hunter himself from selling ten plus ten animals, without going through game - handling facilities, rather than allowing the number to remain unlimited? There are conflicts between agriculture and hunting, but here hunters and farmers are on the same side. We should make full use of that. It is not Sunday hunters like me who will make a difference when it comes to the wild boar tribe, but they are the ones who are really good and really driven. Maybe they can shoot five animals on a weekend. Ten plus ten animals for them is very little. They are the ones who will be able to reduce the wild boar strains, and therefore we should have an unlimited number of animals. I would very much like an answer to that question. The second question is: does the government do anything to reduce the spread of already antibiotic-resistant strains? We have done and do much to prevent new tribes from emerging, but there are already tribes. Every tenth person who goes to Thailand brings an antibiotic-resistant bacteria home. Then it doesn't matter if we become even more skilled in Sweden so that tribes don't arise here, because they don't occur here but we take them with us from abroad. I would very much like answers to these two questions. I repeat them so that it is not unclear: why not allow hunters to sell an unlimited number of wild boars? Does the government have measures against the spread of antibiotic-resistant strains that exist abroad? I would like to take this opportunity to say that I do not believe that the profitability of agriculture is changing. I think it's a corona effect. You eat more at home than at a restaurant.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Staffan Eklöf, for the questions. Why not allow an unlimited number of wild boars? I think the government has done a great deal in this area. This is, of course, an issue that the government and we are following closely, because if we need to do more, we will of course do so. It may not be a completely alien thought in the future. We will see where it lands with all the efforts that have been made now. But I really appreciate that we get more wild boar meat for consumers. Then the issue of antibiotics is an incredibly important one. I usually lift this off the speaker's seat as soon as I get the opportunity. I am also delighted with the government's new investigation to reduce the use of antibiotics globally. In Sweden, our farmers, our researchers, our authorities and so on are good at this, so we have knowledge. Then we will spread it and help others in the EU and the rest of the world. The bacterium tribes from abroad are very disturbing. We know that, like environmental degradation and climate change, antibiotic resistance does not know national borders. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we work on this issue also globally together and help each other. Finally, it may be that the coronan has an effect on the demand for Swedish food. But I believe that our citizens have become aware of what wonderful foods we have and value them in a different way now. I really believe and hope that it will last after the pandemic.
i-Ni3xewv2idwBhS8Mzy3Tnx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your speech. I am going to take on board what Mr Widegren was on a moment ago. It is interesting to listen to Mrs Malin Larsson's view. I can understand, of course, that the government wants to emphasise that everything is fine. Of course, it can be said that it is to some extent good, because, as the honourable Member said earlier, everything looks good on the barometer. Certainly, the price of milk and meat has now risen. But just like Mr Widegren, the price of fuel and diesel goes up. That's the way it is. I would like to ask the honourable Member: if everything is fine, why do we not hear it when we are out listening to farmers? After all, they are so clear about – at least that's what I hear – that profitability is too bad. We decided on a food strategy in June 2017, i.e. almost four years ago. In fact, one of the main elements of it was that there would be more profitability, but also that self-sufficiency would increase. Now it turns out that self-sufficiency has not increased, on the contrary. It's stuck at low below 50%. Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable Member: how is it that it took so long, almost four years, for the government to write the food strategy until it gave a mission to various authorities? That would be interesting to know.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-506	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the questions and for the opportunity to continue discussing these important issues relating to our food strategy and the whole food area! In fact, the positive thing in my speech was not just an approach, but actually a fact, I would say. It is a fact that the number of dairy cows and milk weighing is increasing in the country now. These questions are usually raised by Magnus Oscarsson himself, so I hope he is also very happy about this. As I said in a previous post, we hope and believe that it is a trend break and that we now turn the curve that has unfortunately been declining for several years, so that we can get more Swedish dairy products on our shelves and on our plates when we serve our food. Magnus Oscarsson also points out that profitability is too bad, and that is something we have to work with. The food chain is both long and wide, I was about to say. There are those in the food chain who have a very good profitability, while primary producers often have a lower profitability. It is a question of reviewing this, which we have discussed recently in committee in connection with the UTP directive, which will later come to a decision in this House. I look at the future brightly and hope that the food strategy will continue to deliver. I know that it will do with the efforts made by the government.
i-5tnrbewhDYoyqpkaCTN3eP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your answer! Just as the honourable Member is on – now we are back where we left off – we have different views. I would really like to be able to say every day of the week that it is positive and that Swedish agriculture has such opportunities. However, I hear what people who work with this say, and that's that it's tough. Right now it's fine, and it's really fun. But on the day of milk, which Malin himself was on, we heard what the farmers said. I'm changing some tracks now and going into wild boars, with which many of us have concerns. It is interesting to read about how much trouble there is and how it causes many of us with as many wild boars as there are. We have heard that it costs enormous money for agriculture, 1.1 billion you. It's an old number from, I think, 2016, so it's more now than ever. Therefore, I think it is so good that the government has taken on some of what we proposed a few years ago, that the Trichinella Test would be free. That's a great suggestion. I would like to ask you straight to the point: when do hunters get black and white that when they send in such a thing, it will cost nothing? Can the honourable Member say on a straight note which date is in force?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-514	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by returning to the previous question. You said, Magnus Oscarsson, that I say everything is fine. I highlight some things that are positive, but I have also said that there are challenges and a lot left to work with. But we see a trend that is a bit positive and bright. Then we have to hold on to it and hope it turns around, because we still have a lot of work to do on the basis of the food strategy. The government is therefore investing tremendously in the action plans, in regional food strategies and, above all, in research and innovation. There's still a lot to do, so I'm not happy yet, you know. The wild boar issue is very important, and the government has really worked to find solutions in collaboration and dialogue with hunter associations, LRF and us politicians. It is important to find ways forward that are effective so that we reduce the wild boar strain and damage but also get more climate-smart wild boar meat on the market so that consumers can take part in it. The feeding of wild boars is also an important issue, and there will be a feeding bill. We did not succeed last autumn, but now it will be interesting to also take part of what Magnus Oscarsson and others think. I hope that we can find common solutions that will benefit both farmers and hunters.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-517	Madam President, I would like It is a moment since we started this debate because it has been interrupted by both reporting and Question Time. I put a question to the Social Democrats in my speech, and I fully understand that they do not interrupt what they are going to say in order to answer a question that comes up in the debate. The issue of total defence and security of supply and security of supply have been important parameters that have been included as one of the red threads, perhaps not in the bill but in many of the movements of the parties in this report. In my question, I referred to the fact that Minister Damberg at Folk och Försvar pointed out in January that FOI had received a solid basis in terms of total defence and security of supply. In this context, the Government promised that an investigation would be set up in the spring on what a national coordinated supply readiness should include and how it should be organised and financed. It is extremely urgent that this investigation should be launched, and I therefore have a question for the honourable Member. May is coming to an end, and in my world it is the last spring month. I have a background as a teacher, and the spring term lasts until graduation. Possibly give it a few more days. But when will the investigation be launched in view of its urgency?
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-522	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulrika Heie for repeating her question. Just as you mentioned, FOI has produced a solid basis, because these are big issues that cover an incredible amount. I know that the government is in the process of this investigation, but it is complicated and much to take into account. I do not have an exact date for when it comes, but I also hope that it will be in the near future because these are important issues. I would also like to emphasise that it is important that we learn from the pandemic crisis. It has, of course, revealed shortcomings in our preparedness, which is why it is important to decide what we should be prepared for future crises, what and how much we should have in stock and where and so on. It is also important to adjust to be equipped in everyday life. As I said, we need an increased level of self-sufficiency so that we can do better. This issue spans several different committees and, in the area of health care, an investigation has already been presented. In our area, the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency received a commission on 25 September, which was handed over to the Minister for Rural Affairs on 31 March this year. So there is a lot going on, but I do not have an exact date for the requested investigation.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-526	Madam President, I would like I thank Malin Larsson for his answer. I think it is extremely important for this to get started when it has been promised. The report talks about a number of investigations and when they are due to be completed, and we need to have a basis in the near future in order to translate this into real policy. It's easy to say that we're going to build up security stores and so on. Many of us who are a little older then think about the warehouses that were a bit remote, but it also concerns logistics and communication, including telecommunications. At a time when copper nets are being removed and so on, it is extremely important to ensure that we have a robustness in society as a whole in the face of the total defence challenge that we fear may come in the future. The most important thing is that the investigation gets started so that we eventually get a basis. Sometimes you think that things are hidden in an investigation, but in order for us politicians in the Swedish Parliament to be able to make really good decisions, it is important that investigations are in place. I understand that it is perceived as complex and difficult. But the report from FOI came in 2020, and in January, Minister Damberg said he would set up an investigation. I hope that the honourable Member will use his ability to influence to stress the need to see the investigative directives shortly.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-531	Madam President, I would like Again, thank you to Ulrika Heie who raises these important issues and also the importance of investigations. It is of course extremely important that we politicians get good basis for decisions so that we can make wise decisions. The initiative the government is now making on the total defense is the largest in over 50 years, and there are many important parts in it. Among other things, we need to reduce our dependence on imports and switch to fossil-free agriculture. This was included in our committee report and is very important efforts to achieve good food preparedness. It is also about integrating the preparedness perspective into environmental policy work in order for it to be sustainable in the long term. Today's society does not look like it used to, just as the honourable Member Ulrika Heie did. I also remember emergency stocks in large, green and a little hidden buildings. Today, the threats look different and are directed more towards information and cyber security. The country is being attacked in a different way. It is also a question of pandemics and other types of crisis, so we must, of course, prepare for different scenarios. I'll take the questions with me and push on internally in my party. We often discuss this, and then I always take the opportunity to raise food issues. We'll have to help each other forward.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-539	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if any, I would like to ask you a few questions. It is important to maintain continuity in view of the hacked-up debate, but I will do my best to reconnect. So today we are debating a number of different food issues. I will start with the bill dealing with materials and products that come into contact with food. This is very important for human health. Let me start with some history. A few years ago there was an extensive environmental debate on the substance bisphenol A, which was contained in baby bottles, canned cans and other food packaging. I remember having kids myself somewhere at the same time. A Canadian environmental journalist, Rick Smith, described in the book Poisoned how he increased the level of bisphenol A in the urine more than sevenfold by only eating cans and drinking from soda cans for 24 hours. It quickly disappeared from the body again, but it clearly showed that what we eat affects our exposure to dangerous substances. Bisphenol A carries risks for humans. Sweden has long wanted to restrict its use throughout the EU and has really pushed ahead. It is a Swedish success that the limit values for bisphenol A have been significantly lowered. Food packaging for young children must not transfer any bisphenol A to baby foods, and 2018 came into force with stronger rules that limited BPA. Currently, both manufacturers of materials and products and food business operators are subject to rules on food packaging. Now, with the new rules, compliance with the rules will be much better for the benefit of both human health and the environment. With the report, we will have a food law that both regulates materials that come into contact with food and strengthens compliance with the law so that there is a real change and not just a law on paper. Madam President, I would like I would also like to draw attention to a few other issues, as it is also a motion report. During the winter, shortcomings in the control of slaughterhouses have been noted. It is totally unacceptable for animals to be handled in an unethical way. The Environment and Agriculture Committee has devoted several meetings to discussing how relevant authorities, entrepreneurs and organisations can improve their work. Since 2018, the Swedish Food Safety Agency has been tasked with modernising and streamlining public control of slaughterhouses and game handling facilities and taking measures to simplify and standardise control work. It would make it easier, in particular, for small-scale slaughterhouses if veterinarians could also carry out certain remote inspection checks using mobile phones. It would be of great value to make it easier for small-scale slaughterhouses throughout the country, as more smaller slaughterhouses would reduce the suffering of animals in long journeys. Madam President, I would like Many people have raised self-sufficiency in this House today, and that is extremely gratifying. I think a lot of people have thought about it now with the coronapndemine. The Green Party has been pushing this issue for a long time. In the 2014 elections, we had it. We believe that the level of self-sufficiency should be raised to the level of self-sufficiency that our neighbouring country Finland has. It is important for rural areas, for the climate and for biodiversity, but also because locally produced food is an important part of the work for a growing tourism industry in Sweden. For example, Visit Sweden has clearly highlighted the importance of the tourism industry, where nature tourism, meals and food are an important part. This year many Swedes will holiday in Sweden and be able to enjoy primeurs from the local grower. But it is not enough for farmers and farms to increase in Sweden, but Swedish agriculture must of course also reduce its vulnerability. As we have heard earlier today, Swedish agriculture is largely dependent on imports of energy, inputs, feed, seeds, machinery and labour. In working with increased self-sufficiency, it is of course important to have a focus on climate change. By phasing out climate impacted diesel and commercial fertilisers, more indigenous resources in the form of fuel and manure will be the solution. From the Green Party we particularly welcome the development of biogas as fuel, where the by-product is biofertilizer. It's very important for the climate change. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-KMR9tTApPSMs1itb2b27Lc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Palmstierna, for the lecture! Amanda Palmstierna says the Green Party wants an increased level of self-sufficiency. When I look at the measures proposed by the Green Party and want to become a reality, I see a strong desire to increase organic production. We know that productivity is 20-40% lower than in conventional production. The Green Party also wants the fuels to be fossil-free, which means a great deal of effort. The Green Party is not so positive about new plant breeding methods that could make a big difference. In addition, the aim is to reduce the use of pesticides in order to achieve certain numerical targets and to reduce fertiliser use. It's hard to make this equation go together. The Green Party also wants to set aside large now privately owned forests for state reserves. We know that agriculture in northern Sweden is completely dependent on forestry for its profitability. The equation doesn't add up, as I see it. I wonder what further miracle means the Green Party has to solve the equation.
i-3GSb7fBZvN9vMVxn1doU2p	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the question! I would like to start by saying that I am the jump-in for Maria Gardfjell today. I will do my best to answer the question, but perhaps I am not familiar with the same level of detail as Mrs Maria. I will begin with the question of forestry. I myself come from a forest owner's family. It is important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. We need to protect forests, but there is also a need for sustainable forest management. When it comes to the protection of forests, there is a need for compensation for the protected land. Then there is a large scale and nuances in the sustainable use of forest. There are many different methods of sustainable use that combine economic growth with biodiversity, climate adaptation and so on. From the Green Party, Karolina Skog and Maria Gardfjell have recently been out in a debate article and said that we want financial support to switch to sustainable use of the forest so that as forest owners they dare to take the chance and risk of developing this practice. Then it is also important to focus on several issues at the same time when it comes to organic farming, fossil-free fuels and so on. We must increase the level of self-sufficiency but also organic farming. It is very much about the importance of knowledge building and various forms of financial support, which are issues that we constantly pursue. Furthermore, these are regulatory simplification issues, which you need to carry all the way with you in order to make it easier for entrepreneurs, both in agriculture and in other sectors.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-567	Madam President, I would like The last thing Amanda Palmstierna said about regulatory simplifications sounded great. I very much hope that this will happen and that the government will go down that road. We will, of course, be watching to see that this is the case. It is not the case that the compensation you receive for forests that you just had but that you no longer have can be combined with agriculture. That's a one-time sum you get. Now about 700 000 hectares are on the table, and I understand the Green Party wants to set aside even more forest. There will be many foresters who will have no forest to farm, and so their farms will not go around. Then the Green Party wants to use a huge part of agricultural aid for organic production. We believe that we could think of other ways of increasing productivity. There seems to be a great risk, as I see it, that the policy of the Green Party does not lead to increased production but rather to reduced production. I think our efforts have a very strong focus on increasing production, but then you have to compromise with some other things instead. There's a lot at stake. EU food imports account for one third of deforestation in the tropics. Sweden is also guilty there. And when we're going to have biofuels that come from residues of palm oil, we deforest the tropics even more. There is therefore a lot at stake, and I think that the Green Party's policy seems to be failing, and that would be a disaster for the environment and the climate.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-572	Madam President, I would like I thank Staffan Eklöf. As far as biofuels, trade issues and links with the tropics are concerned, we now have sustainability requirements for biofuels, which prevent the poor use of palm oil. It is no secret that the Green Party is critical of the Mercosur agreement as regards its sustainability aspects. We are pushing for binding sustainability requirements linked to the Mercosur Agreement in a very clear way. There is always an overall picture and different priorities. For example, we see that pesticides are not good for drinking water, and we want to protect drinking water. That is why we want to be very careful about this. If you destroy your water, you can eventually get less production. When it comes to fossil fuels, there is absolutely a need to make a major change in agriculture. But we do not see that it is the way forward that you honk and run on fossil fuels for a very long time to have a huge production, but you need to constantly change and work in different ways to both find the fossil-free and develop the self-sufficiency rate. I think it will be a bit unfortunate if you put these things against each other, but you need to work on several different fronts. You also need to work with various financial support, skills increases and regulatory simplifications.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-576	Madam President, I would like We are now moving from food and wild boar to a circular economy, which is a modern term for cycles and economy with the resources of the earth. This is something high on the Moderate agenda. We run the policy so that different actors actually take responsibility for their waste. We consumers have understood that, and positive things are happening here. Recently, for example, we learned that food waste from households has decreased by as much as 8 kilos per person this year compared to 2014, and now it amounts to 18 kilos. And last year each person went off with 64 kilos of newspapers and packaging for recycling. In addition, measurements show that more than nine out of ten Swedes recycle. It's absolutely amazing, because everyone wins when we recycle. It is not without many ways that Sweden is an example for the rest of Europe, where waste is usually put on landfills. But now the EU also wants to make a change. They have worked out a strategy to promote the circular economy, and we welcome the Moderates. That is good, because it simplifies, creates clarity and provides a level playing field for companies. The government has also developed a strategy that is largely based on the EU's. But when it comes to the government's action plan, questions are raised with me. As in other policy areas, the transition to a circular economy must be cost-effective and have a focus on results. And then it is embarrassing that the government's work is partly characterized by the very opposite. I am thinking above all of the national instruments introduced by the government. Then it is about the plastic bag tax, the tax on waste incineration and the tax on used electronics that even strikes at the coveted recycling. It is something that we all talk about and strive for. And around the corner awaits new treasures. This is a bad policy, especially if these taxes do not run properly. And we don't know that. The question is, does the government even want to know? Because when we Moderates have proposed that we should evaluate these taxes imposed, both from an environmental and socio-economic point of view, the government has turned a deaf ear. Why do we think this is important? Because we already see several examples of how wrong it can be. One year after the introduction of the plastic bag tax, we see staff reductions in the industrial sector. But the design of the tax is the big problem, because it makes fossil-based plastic bags equate with those produced from recycled plastic or biobased plastic. It won't benefit any circularity. If we look at all the efforts that have been made on research and innovation in order to actually produce this biobased plastic, this is a total magplasm. The last time this hit a company called Gaia. Although their bags are now manufactured without a single fossil carbon atom – they have even got their plastic bags certified as multiple bags – they will be taxed. Moreover, the fact that the tax now leads consumers to buy waste bags that are made from fossil carbon atoms, but are not taxed, becomes a strange mess and a strangely bad policy. This shows how wrong the tax beats. Another example is companies that are renovating old computers, monitors and other things. One of them is called Innergo. They regularly inform us of developments, and it is gloomy. Can you imagine that those who thus sell second-hand IT products since the tax was introduced four years ago have paid 16 1⁄2 million SEK in chemical tax. In order for you to really understand how the figures are connected, it is right now in Sweden that a monitor that is used and has a value of SEK 300 is taxed with a tax of SEK 451. And then I'm talking about a chemical tax. It makes it impossible to sell. Everybody understands this is going crazy. The Moderates have proposed that the tax be investigated. The circular economy delegation has brought this to the attention of the government and says that this cannot be done. But nothing happens. This is a poor and incomprehensible policy which, moreover, runs counter to the fine formulations contained in the government's action plan. There are several points in it that actually contradict the government's own actions. For example, point 4.2 states straight up that it is necessary to design instruments that contribute to increased supply and demand for circular products, services, recycling and recycled materials. But also laws and regulations are, as is well known, instruments. One example of this is excavating that occurs in large infrastructure projects. Today they are classified as waste, even though they will often be used later in the construction process itself. As a result, there will be many and long journeys. This, of course, strikes the environment and the national economy. An example of this is from the ongoing metro construction in Stockholm, where this classification of excavations as waste at worst can cost the project SEK 23 billion. Added to this is the risk of increased emissions amounting to about half a million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This cannot be justified. Companies are the engine of society. It is therefore important that they get the right conditions for their activities, because then a lot can happen. For example, the food industry has replaced 2 000 million disposable packaging boxes in a return system, and Ragn-Sell's method of extracting phosphorus from sewage sludge is finally planned to be put into operation. Together with Lantmännen they should also be able to capture nitrogen from sludge from the sewage treatment plants. These two examples could mean that we do not have to import raw materials for the production of fertiliser into agriculture. It would certainly benefit the environment as well as business opportunities and our emergency preparedness. Business opportunities are something companies see in the circular economy. Unfortunately, this also applies to rogue and purely criminal actors who want to make money. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen examples of this. The Moderates therefore want environmental crimes, such as illegal discharges of environmental toxins, to be punished more severely. We want to tighten the penalties for major environmental crimes but also to increase supervision and more random checks. Finally, Mr President, the Moderates are looking to the future after all. We are doing this in order for the EU to push for international product passports, product design requirements and increased production of recycled materials. It is a development that will benefit our children and the future. Now, however, it is important that the government's work focuses on the right things. E n such is to establish more end of waste criteria so that it becomes clear when waste is no longer counted as waste. Only then can we achieve the cycle that reduces the use of virgin raw materials. I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-591	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 14 from the Swedish Democrats. Extraction, production, consumption, recycling, reuse and waste are all parts of the circular economy. Questions we debate concern all the materials we use, goods we consume, goods that are newly produced and goods that are made from recycled materials. The big question is how we can extend the cycle of a raw material so that it can be used as long and as many times as possible to get the maximum out of a raw material and the resources we extract. To have a high level of recycling, it must be easy to do the right thing. What we from the Swedish Democrats often mention is the importance of research and technological development, and this also applies in this area. In order to increase the recycling rate, product development is needed that enables this. With strong producer responsibility, companies are given incentives to review their entire production and waste management chain. Then waste can at best be seen as a resource, which further contributes to recycling. By taking responsibility for waste, companies stimulate good product design and the adaptation of materials so that the recycling process can be as effective as possible. As Sweden both imports and exports goods, it is also very important that policies at EU level promote packaging standards that simplify recycling within the common market. In Sweden, we are relatively good at recycling, I would argue. Many of us have, in principle, got the mother's milk to be recycled. In most households there are source sorting containers, and nowadays even real estate collection is available so that you don't even have to go to a recycling station to sort your garbage. But do we really need – a country that is so good at recycling – to do more? Yes, I say so, but we need to do the right thing. Take, for example, the constantly debated plastic. The work on producing plastic materials that can be easily recycled should of course continue. Increased resources need to be allocated to identify and reduce the flow of plastic in society and, in general, minimise negative environmental impacts. However, we should not go in a direction where we lightly ban plastic products. The basic problem is not always plastic in itself, but shortcomings in the management of waste. This tends to lead to symbolic policies, such as the introduced plastic bag tax. It has put sticks in the wheels of companies that have worked hard to produce products, in this case bags, of recycled and in some cases fossil-free materials. As I mentioned earlier, we shall promote technology development to facilitate recycling, not make it more difficult for the companies that invest in this. Soon we will probably see a special tax on disposable plastic articles. But the plastic is used for a reason. D one does his job well. Instead, we will risk replacing disposable articles made of plastics with other disposable articles of inferior quality or with more expensive products that may have a greater environmental impact than the original product that they wanted to remove. Instead of trying to find cashiers through symbolic criminal taxes, we should use the policy to create opportunities where there are problems today. This applies, for example, to textiles that are listed as one of the most resource-intensive in terms of raw materials and water in production. In addition, it is a material that is recycled to a very low degree. This is not surprising given that textiles in today's Sweden are classified as household waste that is not reused. This means that the responsibility for the management lies with the municipalities. At the same time, the interest in collecting old textiles is great in the industry. Here we see great potential. In order to stimulate increased recycling and product development, producer responsibility needs to be introduced for textiles. National targets for the collection and re-use of textiles should also be set in order to get work going properly. Mr President, I would like to Regulatory and red tape sometimes tends to make it difficult for companies that want to create new values of end-of-life articles. Another example, where there is currently untapped potential, is the tyre industry and how we in Sweden deal with the issue of recycling of end-of-life tyres. An increased number and a larger proportion of tyres are incinerated in Sweden compared to previous years, and we lag behind many other countries when it comes to re-use of the material in the tyres. Tyres are today classified as waste, making recycling complex. It is therefore necessary to examine further whether end-of-life tyres can be considered as raw material in the future. A larger part of the tyres could be used again and promote the circular economy rather than simply being reused as energy. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that certain political measures, such as punishing certain products, should sometimes be abandoned. It is not always the case that the solutions consist of more policies and symbolic measures, but rather of healthy management, education and a balanced environmental debate. In this way, we can jointly map out the path towards better products and healthier consumption patterns without politicians and officials having to regulate the details. Environmental awareness and behaviour cannot always be legislated but are in practice part of the social contract.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-605	Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, circular economy work is nothing new. For decades, it has been a key part of our political vision, namely that the cycles should be closed, that emissions of environmental toxins should be stopped and that our society's use of resources should remain within the planet's limits. That should be an obvious objective for all decision-makers. Yet we still have a long way to go. Sometimes when we discuss these issues you get the impression that it is only about better waste management. It's a truth with modification. Certainly better collection is an important part of the work for a circular economy, and certainly it will remain important that we deal responsibly with what can no longer be used. But the most important realization we have to take to heart is that most of it can be used again and again and again. In a circular economy, there is almost no waste, but there are resources. Our challenge is to build systems based on this principle and to strengthen the actors who implement it by reusing, reusing and restoring resources to the cycle. Here, as legislators, we have an extremely important role to play. Mr President, I would like to Last year Sweden got its first strategy for the circular economy. This does not mean that not many things have been done before, but the strategy is still an important part in pointing out the direction even more clearly. It is the result of negotiations between the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government on the basis of the January Agreement. I and the Center Party are extremely proud that such a strategy is now in place, because there are so many companies and non-profit players who are starting the loops for investments in a more circular economy. They expect the public to be involved in pointing the way towards a more sustainable society. They need to know how the public intends to act in the future when they themselves make decisions concerning Sweden towards a more sustainable society. The signal is now clear. We're building a circular bio-based economy. We're going to grab a number of priority currents. The first action plan is being rolled out, and we are on our way. Then, as several previous debaters have pointed out, there are a number of issues where different policy proposals are seen to have conflicting effects. There we must take a joint responsibility to point to that part, but also to point to the way forward. It is certainly not so obvious that everything will work out just because there is a strategy in place. For example, from the Center Party, we want the bioeconomy to be even more closely linked to the transformation and to review the legislation so that we move from a regulatory framework based on the waste stairway to a more circular approach. We also want to follow up on producer responsibility for textiles, which is now being introduced, with robust efforts to get the second-hand market going. There are a lot of exciting development projects here. Many companies and universities are working on this and are thinking about how best to use textiles by reusing them but also making completely new products. We also want climate labelling to become more common. There are so many different proposals, Mr President, that the minutes you have in the debate go quickly when you list everything you want to say. There is still more to be done to speed up the transition, and it is important that, after the forthcoming elections, we build on what we have achieved during this term of office. Let me give you a few examples, Mr President. One of the priority streams of the circular economy strategy is that of plastic. This is also a material stream where we can expect technology development to fundamentally change the conditions. When chemical recycling comes in as a viable alternative, we can expect both the conditions for recycling and the demand for plastics to change radically. Like much else in the transition to a circular economy, however, this is based on economies of scale and that large flows can be gathered for a few works. It is not certain that this is even something that will happen with the Swedish market as a base, but rather the Nordic or Northern European market. From the Center Party we therefore want to investigate the possibility of a large-scale plant for chemical plastic recycling in Sweden. As a complement to stronger recycling targets at EU level, we also want to see national collection targets for plastics above the Union average. Mr President, I would like to We are dealing not only with the circular economy in this report, but also with the question of what we can call ticking environmental bombs. Sometimes, as in the case of deposited German combat gas in the Bornholm depth and Swedish war material in my lake Vättern, it is literally bombs it is about. But it may as well be poison cans in the Gulf of Gävle, industrial pollution or old marinas and shipyard sites. In common, they all have that it is a question of old provisions for toxic substances – heavy metals or environmental toxins – of which we have little knowledge but which is a latent risk to the environment and human health. We want to see efforts to map and clean up this type of old environmental sin and ticking environmental bomb. We still have an unfortunate tendency to turn a blind eye to what is unpleasant. But it is not possible to do so in environmental policy. The only thing that helps is getting to grips with it. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations and our specific opinion, but I only ask for reservation 33 in paragraph 21.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-620	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulrika Heie for her speech. Ulrika Heie and I have struggled together in Parliament for a number of years, but this is probably the first time I have spoken to the honourable Member. I do it because I know that it is a person who is reliable and has integrity. I think this is important. Ulrika Heie mentions the pride that the circular approach has come into being. We can understand that pride; it is good that this strategy exists. Ulrika Heie also says that this action plan is a good thing. There are certainly some contradictions in it, but the question is what happens next. There are examples of points that run counter to the policy being pursued. I personally drew the attention of the Minister for Finance and other ministers to it, but it drains like water from a goose. The question then is how we can approach this and whether the Center Party can press further for the strategy and the action plan to become confident partners for businesses, so that they can know confidence in where the public is going. Otherwise, we will not have all these companies with us. I have spoken to a couple of entrepreneurs who say that they can no longer manage the development in Sweden and that they should go abroad, because Sweden opposes them with the kind of taxes imposed on their re-use of raw materials. My question to Ulrika Heie is how she and the Center can help to make the action plan more effective.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-624	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Malmberg for the kind words in the introduction. It is perfectly true that we have been fighting together since 2006 and highlighting many important issues together. I would like to recall that one issue that we highlighted in order to increase knowledge and innovation was plastic recycling and chemical plastic recycling, which I also touched on in my main speech. I wonder if it was not Rifo who was the organiser of the seminar that we had here in Parliament – at the time when they met at the Parliament House – and where we raised these questions. It is incredibly important to listen to what research, innovation and companies say about how they are part of future innovation developments. I was in my speech on how important it is that we point out the direction of politics and that we try to shape legislation that also points to that direction. Then it is just as Mrs Malmberg says: sometimes there will also be different types of conflict. We have this in a number of policy areas. I can also feel that it will be in this area. Sometimes it is short-term measures that you want to start a process with which you then think in the long term to change in different ways. Here I think it is important that the circular economy strategy that is now adopted is dealt with just like all the action plans. It is important to evaluate and follow it up to see that the instruments adopted on each occasion are the most effective to use at the time. I am aware that there are conflicting interests, just as I said about target conflicts. Here I think it is important to raise this as a decision-maker, but also from many representatives of companies and other parts of society. In particular, the major environmental work in the Västra Götaland region highlights plastic in the sea. In what way can they be seen as a resource rather than a waste? Here we have quite a long way to go before we have solved all those knots.
i-6bxY6L2A7UdPMSy4FW77yp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika Heie, for your answer! The plastic is an interesting track that the government is now taking. It is said that chemical recycling of plastics should be possible. It is really the only way we can detoxify that cycle. We support the Moderates. It is also an issue that we ourselves have pursued. At the same time, there is a feeling, which I myself often join in, that we should set goals. But it's a matter of following them up. As we follow up on the target for plastic collection, it turns out that only half of the targets are on the table today. It is therefore interesting to know: What new measures will the Centre Party, as the January Party, advocate in order for the government to be able to cherish this and succeed better? If it's really bad, it's plastic that might be shipped by criminals to Asian countries. Among other things, attention has been paid here only a few years ago. Plastics from Europe, which we often sort finely in different factions, do not land there and are taken care of in an adequate way. It's important that the Center Party pushes. In view of this, I would like to ask: how will the action plan be followed up? I understand that it will be included in the budget proposal. But how will it be followed up? Is there anything Ulrika Heie can clarify there?
i-6gLpBTWY9kgWYQoV24b4Sj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for follow-up questions! As the honourable Member mentions, plastic is an extremely important challenge. We can stand here and talk solemnly about the strategies and goals we set. It is incredibly important that we follow up on what is happening. As the honourable Member says, one is extremely upset when one sees how waste becomes a commodity, not least in criminal circles. They are certainly not taking seriously the intentions we have, but are using them for quite different purposes. That is precisely what I highlighted in my speech. It is about the importance of being able to make a chemical plastic recycling. We took part in the seminar mentioned. This is how plastic can be reused as a high-quality product. This applies, for example, to vehicle manufacturing and other parts. There, strength and such parts are so incredibly important to be able to use. It's important to follow up. The strategy that we are putting in place and which we are then following up will lead to the result that we want to see. It is about us being able to use the materials again and to use them at a high-quality level. It may apply to plastics or textiles and so on. On the part of the Center Party, we are extremely keen to see those parts as resources. It is about how we are to shape legislation, tax legislation and also other parts in such a way that it promotes the cycle that we want to see and that we continue to maintain the high level. It is difficult to reply briefly to the honourable Member's question. For our party, it is incredibly important to follow up the strategy and see that it leads to the expectations we have of it. But it is also about being able to change society more towards a circular economy.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-642	Mr President, I would like to The climate crisis shows us what happens when our society does not stay within the framework of nature. The Left Party wants an economy that is circular where we do not take out more from nature than is sustainable and where raw materials and products can be reused, recycled or recycled. Such an approach is central to meeting the climate challenges we are in the middle of. Today's existing economic system has been effective in using an increasing proportion of the earth's raw materials for human activities. Plastic packaging, for example, has increased exponentially in recent decades. Since 1960, the world's production of plastic has increased twentyfold and is expected to double again in the next 20 years. Only a small part of the plastic produced is recycled or reused. It is simply cheaper to produce new products rather than housekeeping what we already have. This has led to an enormous strain on our natural resources, massively increased greenhouse gas emissions and ever-growing amounts of plastic waste. A similar problem exists in virtually all other material areas, and action is needed to resolve this. Mr President, I would like to In a world where access to raw materials is becoming increasingly scarce and environmental challenges are growing, innovation and products with higher value added, lower resource consumption and with the possibility of retaining them within the circular system are becoming increasingly important. The Left Party takes a positive view of an increased processing rate in Sweden. We believe that it can both provide more jobs, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, and increase the value of exports. We need to find ways to stimulate the market so that more people can work in the waste chain. For example, one could see the construction of a system where more products are covered by pledges and which can then be taken care of by operators who re-use or recycle materials from the product. It can be effective in, for example, the disposal of automotive batteries from electric cars. Sweden has the eyes of many and should be a leading country in these matters, both within the EU and in the rest of the world. The government should investigate the possibilities for a deposit system where both recycling and re-use can meet each other. Mr President, I would like to It is also important that we provide all consumers with relevant information and good opportunities to make active choices when buying goods and services. A circular economy is important for achieving a sustainable society. It is not sustainable to constantly develop new raw materials and make new things and then see them end up in the dump. The shorter duration of products increases the amount of waste and prevents the efficient use of natural resources in accordance with a circular economy. In order to keep CO2 emissions down, we need to extend the use of products and increase reuse and recycling. This requires policy initiatives through strengthened regulation. Market and consumer initiatives can take us in the right direction, but that will be insufficient to achieve a sustainable circular economy in time. France has shown the way. They were the first in the world to have legislation against so-called planned ageing in products, i.e. that products should only be able to use a certain amount of time. Moreover, since January, manufacturers of certain electronic products, such as mobile phones and laptop pairs, have to inform customers about the possibilities of repairing the products. The Left Party has long worked to bring about measures that prolong the life of what we produce, mainly electronic products. We cannot always wait for Europe. Mr President, I would like to According to the EU Waste Directive, textile waste is to be collected separately by 2025. Today, much of the textiles are thrown straight into the waste. As many as 200 tons of clothing and textiles are burned every day. This means that they cannot be recovered and recycled or reused. It is a huge waste of resources and a hard blow to the environment and climate. According to the EU Circular Economy Action Plan, textiles after food, housing and transport are the fourth most important burden on nature when it comes to using resources, especially water. It is also the fifth largest category when it comes to emissions. The Government's circular economy action plan shows that the Government intends in the long term to establish interim targets relevant to the transformation, for example for textiles. But why wait? The Left Party, as the Center Party has proposed, wants to see an interim target for the collection of textiles being set. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, half of the clothing currently in the waste is in such condition that it could be used again. We need to get better at taking care of the useful things. Today, there are testing activities for what sorting of collected textiles could look like. At Vargön in Västergötland there is a full-scale project to shape the textile sorting of the future. Earlier this year, they inaugurated a fiber scanner, an automatic textile sorting, which, among other things, sorts according to colour, materials and patterns. This is part of the green industry of the future. With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 15.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-660	Mr President, I would like to I looked through what I was talking about a year ago when we were standing here discussing circular economy. I note that I was then into perhaps the simplest form of them all, namely, when I was young and inherited clothes from someone who had inherited clothes from someone who had inherited clothes. Finally, when it was not possible to inherit the clothes anymore, they were cut to what we in Värmland call math fillers and then woven into rag rugs. It is the simple form, but still – it was really circular economy! It was the same thing when we went to the little community school where I went to get a tiny forehead. It was not a semi-finished product, but it really happened this week, as we called it. It was the remains of what had been earlier this week. These are very simple shapes, but something that actually makes a difference. We have heard in the speeches that have been made earlier today that we are getting more and more complex products, which makes the circular economy more complicated. If we are to take a measure for the climate and the environment that really helps, it is, as Jon Thorbjörnson was concerned about, among other things, our use of clothes. I note that many of our renowned Swedish companies, not least in the field of outdoor recreation, have become very good when it comes to recycling. One thing they do is remove dangerous chemicals from their clothes. But they also get better at re-use, and they offer repair and rental. Many of these clothes are quite expensive, and they may not be used very often. Then renting is very good. We also see that in many of our municipalities there are leisure banks where you can rent outdoor equipment. So things are happening! We have noticed now during the pandemic that outdoor life has increased further, as we are going to vacation at home. It is amazing that we are making use of the opportunities that we have. I could talk a lot about the amazing things about outdoor life. But that is not what we are going to discuss now, but we are going to continue with the circular economy. Sweden is in many ways an example in the transition, I would say, even in the case of the circular economy compared to other parts of Europe, where waste is mainly put on landfill. That is why we need to act within the EU machinery in order for the continued work on the European Commission's circular economy package to help reduce waste and landfills throughout the EU. At the same time, national guidelines and objectives must not be too rigid, but must be able to adapt to the different circumstances of the Member States. In order to make Sweden even better at the circular economy, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be given the task of developing more detailed guidance on when waste ceases to be waste – this in order to create greater clarity and predictability for companies that want to contribute to the transition to a circular economy. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should also be tasked with helping companies to quickly determine the status of waste and, if necessary, develop end of waste criteria. Mr President, I would like to The tyre industry has long asked for criteria for when tyres should cease to be classified as waste, as the classification of waste makes recycling difficult. I myself have also asked Isabella Lövin, the then Minister for the Environment and Climate, in a written question. It is gratifying that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency last winter was commissioned by the Government to investigate whether there is a need to introduce national end of waste criteria in Sweden. This is a step along the way, Mr President, but the answer to the question under investigation is that we already know. That answer is, yes, it is necessary. Today we are seeing an increasing export of Sweden's recycled tyres that go abroad and there are being burned up. If recycled tyres, instead of being considered waste, can be considered as a raw material, it will contribute to innovation and to the creation of new products and jobs. Mr President, I would like to An estimated one third of all food produced is discarded without being eaten. At the same time, the pressure on our planet's resources is increasing, which places increasing demands on us to manage both food and agricultural land. Most of the waste is done in households, but also at retail level we have a significant food waste. Today, traders are afraid to freeze cold goods themselves before the date expires. The Swedish Food Safety Agency's regulations give the impression that this procedure is not permitted. On the Swedish Food Safety Agency's website, you make a liberal interpretation of your own regulations and write that you can freeze cold goods. But out in the trade, many people experience a risk of freezing, and so this occurs very rarely. In addition, in the municipalities, different inspectors make different interpretations. By freezing cold goods, the waste can be reduced while customers have a greater opportunity to buy the frozen products, often at a lower price. We therefore propose that the Food Act be clarified in such a way that it is clear that a store may freeze cold goods. Some goods can also be processed instead of frozen. Meat mince, for example, is such a commodity that you can make meatloaf or meatballs out of. Many stores have their own oven and could sell lunch boxes over the counter. If the store itself is not able to process the products, it can collaborate with other companies, catering companies, schools and so on. We therefore propose that the Swedish Food Safety Agency should make it clear to traders that they themselves are allowed to process their cold goods, such as chicken and minced meat. The Swedish Food Safety Agency should also be tasked with developing a guidebook for entrepreneurs on how to reduce their food waste. In this connection, Mr President, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 27 in paragraph 17. Mr President, I would like to Then the big question is how do we make people dare to taste and smell the food even if it has passed the best before date? This change of attitude is far more important than trying to change the attitude of people so that they eat less meat on life and death. Instead of continuing to impose meat combs, it is much more important to say: Eat Swedish, eat in season and eat up! Mr President, I would like to 8 million tons of plastic go into the sea every year around the world. Much of this comes from the fishing industry in the form of debris from fish farms and ghost nets or other things that fishermen lose. I now note that the Norwegian fishing industry wants to tackle the problem and recirculate the plastic taken out of the sea from the various branches of the fishing industry. We should look at Norway and learn both in this regard and in their management of lost networks and how the funding is being made to salvage the networks. Many environmental problems are cross-border, including the spread of debris in the seas. Plastic in the seas is a very big problem, and the EU is an appropriate level to act against the problem. Sweden should work within the EU to prevent the spread of litter in the seas. Most of the plastic litter that floats ashore in Sweden comes from other countries. In nearby countries there are landfills that are substandardly fenced, which means that plastic litter blows out into the sea at a storm. The process of sanitizing plastics should be intensified. At the same time, Mr President, plastic is a fantastic material that occurs in countless products. Plastic is cheap to produce and has several desirable properties that are required for different types of products. Many of the plastic products are disposable or are only used for a short period of time. Then plastic objects are thrown into the garbage or, unfortunately, too often, elsewhere. From lack or non-existent waste disposal plastic litter is further spread into nature. It is important to reduce plastic litter, as well as to avoid fossil plastic burning with accompanying CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. The main strategy to prevent these phenomena should be to increase recycling of plastics. Economic incentives are often effective and would probably also have an effect on increasing plastic recycling. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that Sweden works for the introduction of an international new manufacturing fee on plastic made from fossil materials. This would give plastic a higher recycling value. Mr President, I would like to I note that my speaking time is up. I was going to talk a little more about wind turbines, subway construction, plastic bags, environmental taxes, producer responsibility for pharmaceuticals, cigarette butts and other rifles, as we say in Värmland, but until that is not enough time. So I thank myself and conclude, no matter how wrong it sounds, that it is the circular that will lead us forward.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-685	Mr President, I would like to Circular economy changes our society in many ways. A transition from a linear to a circular economy requires a changed approach, new ways of working, increased cooperation in society and new business models. It is about contributing to the global sustainable use of earth's resources. The transition to a circular economy is also necessary to achieve our environmental and climate goals and the global goals of Agenda 2030. As one of the world's most innovative countries, Sweden is well placed to take on this transition. Through innovation and entrepreneurship based on circular material flows and business models, we can lead the development. Mr President, I would like to Non-toxic cycles are a prerequisite for a circular economy. We debated the EU's proposal for a new chemicals strategy some time ago in this House, and I highlighted the importance of developing EU common legislation to take better account of chemical aspects throughout the life cycle of products. Incentives are also needed for the green transformation of the EU chemical industry. The chemicals strategy includes measures to support innovation and research into safer and more sustainable chemicals and materials. In this way, important steps can be taken to achieve not only circular solutions but also enhanced competitiveness. Sweden has for several years been calling for stronger information requirements within the EU on chemical content in goods. It is therefore positive that the Commission now wants to drive forward the work on product information for consumers. Digital product passports are an important component of this work. Mr President, I would like to In the motion for a resolution on the circular economy, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture deals with 160 motions. This shows the breadth of the question and the commitment of all parties in Parliament. Above all, I would like to highlight issues relating to electronics, metals, textiles and plastics, but I would like to start with the question of increasing the demand for recycled materials and the important role of the public sector in the transition to a circular economy. The public sector – the state, regions, county boards and municipalities – has a great opportunity to influence through public procurement and to be active partners in innovation projects and in collaborations where new solutions are developed. The contracting authority had last year's task of reviewing how strategic procurement can promote a circular economy. This review is now under preparation in the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to In the EU Circular Economy Action Plan, we can read that electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing waste streams in the EU, with an annual growth rate of 2%. It is estimated that less than 40% of electronic waste in the EU goes to recycling. Value is lost when fully or partially functioning products are discarded because they cannot be repaired, the battery cannot be replaced, the software is no longer supported or materials included in the equipment are not recycled. To address all these challenges, the Commission will present an initiative on circular electronics. The government has also just received a study proposing the development of current producer responsibility for electrical equipment. The study highlights important issues such as responsibility for informing consumers, financial incentives for collection, the obligation to delete personal information in mobile phones, for example, and to tighten up the requirements for collecting electronic material to prepare for re-use already there. Mr President, I would like to In March this year, the Government decided that a special investigator will review trial processes and regulations to ensure a sustainable supply of innovation critical metals and minerals from both primary and secondary sources. It is very important to increase the proportion of metals and minerals that are recycled. Batteries and electrical products are two streams that are particularly interesting for increased reuse and recycling. According to the Government, mining waste from previous mining has also been identified as a potential source of innovation-critical metals and minerals in Sweden, such as rare earth metals. Mr President, I would like to Textiles are one of the product value chains identified as particularly important both in the EU circular economy action plan and in the Swedish strategy. Textiles, after food, housing and transport, are the fourth largest load category in terms of the use of primary raw materials and water in the EU. Textiles are also the fifth largest category in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. It is estimated that less than 1 percent of all textiles in the world are recycled into new textiles. In view of the complexity of this chain, to address these challenges, the Commission will propose a comprehensive EU strategy for textiles based on the views of industry and other stakeholders. The Government has also received the investigation Producer responsibility for textiles. The investigation's proposal aims to reduce waste from textiles and promote a circular economy. The study proposes, among other things, setting targets for textile waste and making it easier for consumers, producers and others to obtain information on how to contribute to reducing the environmental impact of textiles. The proposals are being prepared in the Government Office right now. Mr President, I would like to Today, plastic is found in all the world's oceans, and the largest amount is not biodegradable. It is estimated that all conventional plastics that have ended up in the oceans remain and will do so for a long time, for hundreds of years. In January 2018, the European Commission presented a European Plastic Strategy. It contains a clear vision for sustainable consumption and production of plastics. By 2030, all plastic packaging placed on the EU market shall be re-used or recycled. The strategy proposes action at EU and national level. At the end of 2020, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was tasked with analysing the obstacles to achieving increased recycling of plastics with a special focus on chemical recycling as a complement to mechanical recycling. Chemical recycling can help Sweden to achieve a circular economy and make us at the forefront of a completely new global and sustainable industry. In addition to the environmental positive effects, chemical recycling also presents major economic opportunities for Sweden. By being early in research, technology development and construction, Sweden can gain a position as a market leader in a completely new and sustainable industry. Mr President, I would like to We have a major task ahead of us. But it is important, and it goes without saying. Increasing resource use and promoting the transition to a circular economy are important elements for green growth that helps reduce environmental and climate impacts and also benefits business development and creates new green jobs.
i-GtTh3BCdJaYaia5LEaGKor	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Burwick, for your speech. Marlene Burwick concluded by saying that we will hopefully have a new deal in being able to chemically recycle plastic. That is a hope that we share, absolutely! But then it is also a question of the government acting in this direction in order for it to be possible. In my speech, I mentioned a couple of examples of the economic situation in which the government taxes various products and thus counteracts the recycling, re-use and re-use that companies are investing in today. They have invested in research and innovation and they have invested their business and dare to challenge, but then they fall on the government to impose such high taxes. We talk about procurement and often say that if we do public procurement, everything will go well. I used to take Inrego as an example. They have monitors with a value of SEK 300, which are then taxed at SEK 451 each. One authority tried to procure second-hand displays from this company – they were looking for 1,000 monitors – but when they saw the cost of it, they turned down and procured new displays instead. The government's signalling system is putting a brake on the circular economy, and I would like to hear Mrs Burwick's comment on this.
i-SvGWh778fvUuxctakMkyo2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg! I would like to problematise a little more than the honourable Member, Betty Malmberg. I think like this: what the government and cooperation parties are doing on this issue is very clear in terms of both the strategy and the action plan, which are fully in line with work at European level, which is also extremely important for our success in this area. There is a lot of action being taken. When it comes to chemical recycling and the example that Betty Malmberg started with has been given assignments to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and it is also inscribed in Industriklivet. Major efforts are also being made to review how we can use public procurement as an opportunity, as many stakeholders also demand. If you are to dare to invest and make new products from recycled materials, there also needs to be a demand. Many actors find it difficult to trigger this demand. I believe that public actors can make an important contribution to supporting this development. I think that a great deal is being done, but there are conflicting objectives in this area, as we heard here in a previous shift in line. I think that, as I started by saying, new approaches and ways of working are needed to achieve a circular economy. Then I think it is important, as Ulrika Heie mentioned earlier in the debate, to evaluate and constantly ensure that we have the necessary measures and incentives for this development. I definitely think that some proposals need to be backed up because they do not give the development that we see necessary.
i-W2dHBu3EFWzChEciBZvogr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Burwick, for your answers. This is exactly what we Moderates have lifted up. We wanted, and have made proposals for us to have, an environmental and socio-economic analysis of these various taxes to see if they are leading the right way. But that's where the government turns a deaf ear. We think that the strategy and the action plan are in line with the EU's, but we are concerned about the national instruments, because they put a brake on the cycle and the circular economy. I know that Marlene Burwick is also very passionate about research and innovation and where this can lead us, but this is hard on the companies that have invested decades in developing plastics that they can now produce without a single fossil carbon atom. The EU has invested tens of millions to help these companies enter the bio-based market, but they cannot sell this product in Sweden as a multiple bag that is not subject to plastic bag tax. The government and the January parties must see the effects of this policy. It's worrying. As I said, we need instruments that increase supply and demand for re-use, as stated in the action plan, but we also need to act accordingly. Many have also mentioned textiles. I just want to say that the Moderates are behind us having producer responsibility in this regard. At the same time, however, we want attention to be paid to the second-hand market so that the Red Cross and others selling second-hand goods are not affected.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-718	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Betty Malmberg! The honourable Member, Betty Malmberg and I tend to work together on many issues, and several of the issues that the honourable Member mentions here in the line I fully agree with, such as the importance of second hand and the importance of finding the right place in the design of producer responsibility for textiles. It is also an example of the target conflicts with which we are struggling and which we need to be transparent about their existence. Now that we are developing new instruments to achieve a circular economy, we need to steer right and keep our tongue right in the mouth. On issues such as chemicals tax and plastic bags, I share some of my views with the honourable Member. For example, as far as the chemical tax is concerned, the design of the tax contained an exception for used persons who have not actually worked. The delegation for the circular economy has also raised this issue. I think it should be exciting to see what happens about it. I think we definitely need to look at this so that the page with the used page is not actually distributed in this way. I would also like to raise the importance, which I also believe Betty Malmberg and I agree on, of actually having a non-toxic cycle. We have mentioned this many, many times in committee. We cannot have a circular economy without taking into account, in many cases, the dangerous chemicals contained in the products, and I really do not think that Betty Malmberg means that. We also need to find the right instruments and the right incentives to actually steer right so that we can get on with the transition to a circular economy.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-723	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners! I would like to start by saying something unusual for an environmental party: V i want to increase consumption. We want to increase the consumption of climate-smart products, of repairs and of used products. We want to increase the consumption of various services and of culture. But, of course, we also want to reduce consumption. We want to reduce the consumption of fossil products, and we want to reduce the slit-and-slip economy, which is not really a slit-and-slip economy but rather a buying-and-slip economy. You barely have time to rip out the stuff. It is important that we all need to find future solutions so that we reach an economy that fits within the boundaries of the planet. We have a planet, but we are consuming today as if we had four planets. It seems obvious to everyone that when you have red figures in a financial statement you act quickly. But when they are in the balance sheet of the planet, no one is really acting in the same way. It is therefore extremely gratifying to hear that there are many parties in the Riksdag who are fighting for a circular economy. The European Environment Agency has developed a series of reports to raise awareness in the postcorona community. It is a series of reports based on a lot of research and facts. They clearly show that economic growth brings wealth with education, health care and so on – things we need. But it also leads to many different crises, such as climate emissions, reduced biodiversity and increased pollution. It is extremely important to dare to talk about the backsides of classic bnp growth and to dare to think new. DN has raised the issue in a series of articles. Among other things, they have done an interview with Raworth Raworth, who is said to be the new economic thinker of our time. She talks about both ecological and social issues linked to the economy. I think she formulates Agenda 2030 in a very good way. She says that we have the boundaries of the planet as an ecological ceiling which we must not exceed but which, unfortunately, we have already exceeded today. But there is also a social floor that we must not undercut because we must get away from poverty and so on. Between the two, we have the secure room for manoeuvre for humanity. If we leave the overall vision, what are we going to do to get there? I'd like to start by telling you what we're not supposed to do. Of course, consumer information is important in every way, but we cannot just put it on the consumer. That will never be enough. We shouldn't be doing touchsticks and moralizing. It's easy to get there, but it's wrong. We politicians have to fix the structure and simply make this possible. Mr President, I would like to As we heard earlier today, the government, together with the cooperation parties, has developed a strategy for the circular economy. It shows the long-term rules of the game and the solid foundation. In the strategy, the vision is a society where resources are used efficiently in nontoxic circular flows and replace virgin materials. Here is the realization of the planet's borders and the need to reduce consumption. The Action Plan identifies different focus areas. Sustainable product design is an important area. Here, as much as 80 per cent of the product's environmental impact is reduced. It is about products to have a long life, to be repairable and to be recyclable. Another focus area is sustainable consumption. These include procurement, but also consumer information and consumer protection. That it should be a nontoxic cycle from the beginning is also important. And once harmful substances have entered, of course, they must be phased out. It is also crucial that there are drivers for companies and different actors to work with innovation and new future solutions. However, as things stand at present, the circular economy's disappearance is small compared to the linear economy. We really need to scale this up. If I am going to try to select the really big and important measures, as the Green Party sees it, I would like to highlight the product policy framework that the EU is working on right now. The government and co-operation parties agree to pursue an ambitious line in the product policy framework so that many product categories are included and in an ambitious way. Marlene Burwick mentioned that it should also be included in the whole chain, from research to innovation, climate change and industrial life and contributions, but also to commercialisation with green credits, which the government has set up and which can go to circular projects. Here we need to work even more with the market introduction. Then procurement is very important, which has also been lifted up before. We have given the Procurement Authority a mission here. We just need to get back to work on this. It is procured for 800 billion each year, according to the latest figure I heard. One measure that I also think is important is standardisation. That might sound a little boring. But it is about finding definitions and a common language, for example, on the subject of plastic. We have a crazy amount of plastic. Some researchers say that we may be able to settle for 10 to 15 types of space. If we can find a standardization for plastic for the overloading currents, that would be fantastic. We have given the Swedish Standards Association a mandate in the guideline letter to look at it. Collaboration with the business community is also crucial and crucial. The business community must be able to work with its business models, with innovations and take new solutions further. Sometimes it's easy to talk about business and forget about the public sector. But the municipalities are also really important players in this. I believe very much in the power of the good example there. A municipality tries something, and then it spreads on. I would also like to highlight something that has been mentioned earlier today: end of waste criteria, i.e. when waste ceases to be waste and turns into a resource. This is an important measure that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now looking at. Here, it's non-toxic central. It's supposed to be non-toxic from the start. Circular economy is a planetary issue. But it's also a wallet question. An example often used is the coffee maker. You buy a coffee maker and brew your 10 or 30 cups of coffee, and then it breaks. It was perhaps cheap in purchases, but in cost per use a cup of coffee becomes quite expensive. If you look at the exact cost per use you can see that it really becomes a wallet issue. Municipalities also buy products. My municipality of residence, for example, started buying second-hand office furniture and saved a huge amount of money and contributed to great climate and environmental benefits. There is also a great deal about new technologies, from highly specialised technology to craftsmanship. It is a shift in technology, but it is just as much a shift in skills, and a great many jobs are created. We need to focus on that. It's extremely important. I would like to sum up the fact that we must let go of the blindfolds of the concept of growth and take in the ecological and social aspects. We can't have a linear economy and then a little circular layer on top, like cream on the cake. We need to realign. Then we need to reduce consumption in total by increasing environmental consumption, increasing services and reducing wear and tear, so that we can find an economy within the planet's borders through the solutions of the future. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-744	Mr President, I would like to In her speech, Amanda Palmstierna spoke of the need to get away from foresticks and moralising. That is something that I very much welcome, and I hope that Amanda Palmstierna will bring the entire Green Party on this. We have noted that this has not always been the case. I also noted that Amanda Palmstierna raised technology optimism at the end of her speech. It really tastes to me. We must believe in the future and believe in technology. We can't dress in sacks and ashes and go back. Then we really don't get where we want to go. What is really circular, Mr President, is forestry. The forest is a fantastic raw material that we can use not least for substitution, i.e. to replace CO2 intensive materials such as steel and concrete. I have previously noted that the Green Party is happy enough for more wood construction. That's great – more of it! At the same time, they want to protect incredibly much more forest in Sweden. They also want to put sticks in the wheel for our forest owners in other ways. This brings us back to work with the circular economy. We have sustainable forestry today, and we must make use of the forest. Nevertheless, the Green Party is speaking against itself on this issue. How will we manage to achieve a circular economy and more wood construction when, according to Amanda Palmstiera's mouthpiece, we protect so much more forest?
i-RSSX1BvdhVLwnTVfndY34x	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the reflection and for the question! I want to start with this: we need to get away from moralizing and touch sticks. Yeah, definitely. Sometimes it is also the media that pick up suggestions and perhaps angles them to something that is not what has originally come from the Green Party. I would say that it is very important for the Green Party to work with the structures and to find the conditions for not doing touchsticks. With regard to technology optimism, it is very gratifying that we share it. The Green Party then wants to highlight the need for technology optimism but also reduced consumption, taken together. We kind of can't drive the curves right up the ceiling. As far as forestry is concerned, I would like to problematise a little. Today, there is a lot of forestry that is made sustainable, but there are also examples that it doesn't really work – big greens and so on. There's, like, a spectrum. It is absolutely true that we want to increase the construction of wood. It's very important. At the same time, we see that there are currently cases where strains go to incineration, and that is not reasonable. You can have categories such that the stems are used for wood construction and it is residual material that goes for combustion. Then we must remember that we have several crises going on at the same time. We need to think about the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis at the same time. We can't choose just one. The forest is also an important carbon sink, so it is about the balance there. We believe that it is important to protect biodiversity while at the same time solving the climate crisis and that the reduction in consumption is part of all this.
i-XgP3wNugyWuuEMNRWqmkTV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Amanda Palmstierna, for your answer! The average hut in Sweden is smaller than Kungsträdgården. Yet we often hear in the debate that our huts are gigantic. In addition, as a forest owner, one must leave consideration areas and so on depending on what the forest looks like, so a kalehygge today is not a kalehygge. It's not cold. I note that Amanda Palmstierna has read Dagens Nyheter. I would like to recall that she raised this issue of incineration in her speech as well. There has been a lot of criticism of what was said in DN, among other things that it said that we also import forests to burn. In fact, it is the residual products that go to incineration. We use the logs to make wood products, and then we use smaller logs to make, for example, paper pulp. It is the residual products that go to incineration, so there it was actually that the media went out with errors. Amanda Palmstierna brought up this moralizing and pointer thing in her answer here. What I mentioned in my speech was also the shame issue. We need to get away from the shame, including the one directed at landowners today. In our Swedish forest today we do not have the great extinction that you want to let suggest that we have. That's not where the species death is. For example, we have an incredible amount more birds today than we had just a few years ago, so there you are a little bit out of the way. Of course, we have to find some sort of balance, but it is still the case that if we are to get through this, the forest is our great competitive advantage. For example, they want to protect 525 000 hectares of mountain forest and double what is already protected. How are we going to get through the transition if we can't use the forest?
i-6KM3sryYCJdGEWCSinZcoZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the questions! I mean, the average for the scallop is one thing. This means that some are smaller and some are larger. Then there are examples of the fact that, unfortunately, one has ended up quite wrong. There are examples of driving injuries and so on. I simply mean that there is a broad spectrum of use, from very sustainable to things that are not very sustainable. Examples of sustainable farming are mixing deciduous trees in the forest, having consideration areas, really taking into account watercourses and so on. There are many such things you can do and still have economic growth. But there are also examples of insufficient consideration being given. If we are to ensure Sweden as a whole, we need protection that meets various international objectives. Here, Sweden has more to do, quite simply, and we need to take a clear responsibility. I think it's very important to see this whole width. The Green Party believes that we need to protect more forest. We need to be a pioneer country and really protect biodiversity. That there would be no species death in Sweden, I do not sign that. We have a red list. We see that species disappear all the time. This is due to many different things. It depends on forestry. It is due to climate change but also to pesticides and so on. There is definitely a need for action in Sweden too on biodiversity. Here, too, we have a historic debt, as we see a decline in biodiversity. Therefore, the Green Party believes that it is very important to have sustainable farming and a high level of protection in the forest.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-768	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Amanda Palmstierna for her speech. It was very interesting to listen to. It's fun when you hear about the broader perspectives. What Amanda Palmstierna also pointed out was that there are actually many parties fighting in the same direction. It is important that we see each other and also listen to each other, for we can all have something to learn. We in the Moderates sympathise with issues of standardisation, which are extremely important, technology optimism and interaction with industry – and with the public and civil society, which I see as self-evident. What we are missing here is the end of waste criteria, that is, when waste ceases to be waste. We bring them up because we want a secondary raw material. We will not waste the resources of the earth, but if we can get this waste to get the right name, industry or companies can start producing in stage two. It would benefit the whole situation. We want the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to have more assignments in this area, because there are many more product types that would have to be done with but which are not currently addressed. It was a bit inspiring to hear Marlene Burwick imply a slight shift in the chemical tax on second-hand electronic products. I'm a little curious about how Amanda Palmstierna and the Green Party feel about something like that.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-773	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the initial reflections! Now that we are facing such a major climate and environmental crisis, it is very valuable to be able to constantly find constructive ways forward and try to find as many common denominators as possible. As far as the end of waste criteria are concerned, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, as we have heard before, has the task of looking at this. The EU works at EU level, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency looks at the national level. We will have to closely follow that mission and what it results in. This is a first step, and we'll get back to work. What is extremely important is that it becomes nontoxic – the freedom of poison is a prerequisite. I believe that many parties here agree that we cannot tax it. As far as the chemicals tax on electronics and used goods is concerned, as Mrs Burwick said: when the legislation was introduced, the intention was not really to tax the used goods. The practical management of the derogation has shown that this does not work. It has now been included in the delegation's report, which is submitted to Minister for the Environment Per Bolund. This report will be prepared and we will look at all the proposals contained in it. This is there and is something to look at in the future.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-776	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Amanda Palmstierna, for your answer! I also mentioned the report that the Delegation for the Circular Economy has raised. However, as I understand it, they submitted that report a year ago and drew the attention of the government to the fact that it was not a functional chemical tax that was imposed on production, which works for the re-use and re-use of various forms of electronic products. Why am I persevering in this? I think it's going to be completely idiotic, because logic doesn't make sense when we punish those who want to do the right thing. We usually say the opposite: It should be easy to do the right thing. But here we are punishing them – or not us – but it is the government that is doing it together with its partner parties. Just so you know: A computer screen that can be reused saves an average of 520 kilos of carbon dioxide. It makes a difference to the climate. We had an authority that wanted to buy 1,000 monitors. All of this adds up. But then it is also a question of the government listening to what companies say about criticism and, where it can, screw it up so that it will be right at some point. We hope, however, that it is a little positive to conclude this debate on the circular economy. I'm an optimist. I will follow this up and hope that we will see this realised.
i-16ffb738b3c558bf-780	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the supplementary question. The delegation submitted a report this spring, quite recently. The chemical tax has been up in the past too – that's right. All the proposals coming from the delegation are to be looked at together, quite simply. However, with regard to the chemical tax at all, it is reasonable to look at the question of second-hand use. This is something we must prepare, investigate and come back to in a broad, constructive spirit. I can also mention that I myself replaced my parliamentary computer this morning, just before the committee. I then assured myself that computers are actually being reused here in Parliament. So the old computers of the Members are not wasted; they go on and are reused. That is extremely pleasing. Let's get back to the question.
