i-39244588a9a1ef17-0	On Monday 5 July, I submitted the proposal that Stefan Löfven, the Social Democrats, be appointed Prime Minister. Stefan Löfven has stated that he intends to form a government made up of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The proposal has now been tabled twice and will be examined at today's sitting.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-2	Mr President, I would like to Peace and stability are qualities that I appreciate in leaders, not least in difficult political times. For me, it is therefore a simple choice that I face today. We Social Democrats naturally vote in favour of Stefan Löfven re-entering as the leader of a government with Social Democratic and Environmental Party ministers. It is a government that is possible after an agreement with the Center Party. The decisive reforms that the Government has previously initiated will then also be able to be voted through by the members of the Riksdag. I note that the moderate leader Ulf Kristersson abstained from being tried by the House after his exploratory mission. Although he was aware of the distribution of seats, he and the Moderates voted in favour of the Swedish Democrats' motion of censure, apparently without believing in their ability to take up office as a government founder. Sweden has never been as close to a right-wing conservative government as when the Left Party was united with the right-wing parties to bring down a Social Democratic Prime Minister. I hope that after today's vote, the leader of the Left Party, Nooshi Dadgostar, will sigh with relief, as I hope we will again have a head of government formed in the Swedish trade union movement. It was a high game where the stake was ordinary people's everyday lives. Mr President, I would like to I want us to raise our eyes. Despite the pandemic and despite political crisis, buses have continued to roll, shops have been kept open, roads and streets have been renovated and children in preschool have been taken care of. New educators, new electricians and new nurses have been trained. The struggles we have here will have as little impact as possible on the lives of those who hold our welfare society together, so that Sweden continues to work for the elderly, for young people, for children, for healthy people, for the sick – yes, for all of us. It is therefore important that we can again appoint a strong government as soon as possible, so that the hardworking women and men in schools, in health care, in the elderly, in shops, in restaurants, in small businesses and in Swedish industry can re-plan their future without political concerns. The Prime Minister on whom we are voting today has already demonstrated his ability to address today's major social problems. The government has made historical investments in welfare. All in all, including the costs of the pandemic that we have, welfare has been added to SEK 61 billion last year and SEK 44 billion this year. It is money that municipalities and regions should use to, for example, strengthen elderly care and school. It must never be forgotten that strong investment in health care, care and school can be made thanks to good financial management and the lowest public debt since 1977. There is now an offensive against the gangs, where the police are turning the underworld upside down. The numbers trained as police officers in our country have doubled. The promise of 10,000 more police officers by 2024 will be fulfilled. The law enforcement authorities have been given new tools by the government to fight crime. The punishment has been raised with the determination needed to destroy organised crime. And we continue to do what is necessary to create order. By the end of 2020, despite the pandemic, Sweden had 270 000 more jobs than in 2014. Sweden was the country in the EU where the largest proportion of the population worked. Labour force participation is also highest in the Union. This autumn, pension reforms that provide retired nurses and shopkeepers who have worked for a full working life will be a better pension. It is about up to 5 000 SEK more a year after tax in the wallet to primarily pensioners from LO professions. In addition, I would like to emphasise that the government is making the biggest investments in environmental and climate work in Sweden ever. Mr President, I would like to I am proud of what we Social Democrats have achieved so far with other parties. But we're not done. That is my most important message today: we are not finished. People expect us to take responsibility for continuing to strengthen welfare, for continuing to improve our security systems in order to function in the event of illness and unemployment and for continuing work on improving pensions. Mr President, I would like to We really have a job to do. Today, we are considering whether the government that took office in January 2019 will be allowed to continue its work until the elections next year. We Social Democrats want Stefan Löfven to have renewed confidence in the parliament to lead the country. That is why we are voting in favour and pressing the green button in today's vote.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-17	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs change. Our amazing country has as much as we can be proud of. It is a country that people before us have built up, before we, who have gathered here today, gained the voter's confidence in the last parliamentary elections. At the same time, however, we have major problems that require action. We're talking about having to raise the level of knowledge in school, not least after the pandemic. We need to break the spiral of violence. The rule of law, integration and hope for the future must replace the mental ice age that is the basis for the serious criminal gangs that murder, threaten and make people's freedom in everyday life impossible. It is about speeding up climate change through an effective energy policy that ensures that Sweden becomes the world's first welfare country with net negative emissions. It is about ensuring safe health care and care for the elderly, where we retain the right to control our own lives even when we are at the most fragile. It is about better caring for the wealth-creating forces by making it better to move from grants to jobs. Innovations, entrepreneurship and savings must be encouraged. It is about social reforms without socialism, such as re-establishing the LSS and the right to personal assistance. This and much more requires a new government. Therefore, the Liberals in our position took the position that the best thing for Sweden would be a liberal and bourgeois government. At the same time, we have clearly honoured agreements reached. At the beginning of this term of office, we helped to resolve a very difficult political situation with the so-called January agreement based on important liberal social reforms. We stand by the deal. It was not because of the Liberals and our voices that Sweden a few weeks ago was thrown into a government crisis. The Liberals have then acted constructively to try to find ways out of this government crisis. In line with the position we have expressed to the President, the Liberals wanted first and foremost to seek a liberal and bourgeois government. We had welcomed if all four bourgeois parties, the Liberals, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, had wanted to work for a change of power and a new start for Sweden. That door was closed, and it wasn't because of the Liberals. However, we hope that closed doors can eventually be reopened. The Liberals will continue to work for a liberal bourgeois government and that we can take office after the elections in 2022. The values from which the Liberals were once formed, to fight on the basis of liberal ideas for every man's freedom to shape his own life, are ideas and thoughts that are as central now as in the future. They are, as always, the basis for any government policy that we can contribute to. We defend our democracy and human rights. We are fighting racism, restraint and intolerance. We stand up for equality, LGBT people's rights and for the freedom of culture and the media. We affirm internationalism, solidarity and European cooperation. Now, as always, in headwinds and headwinds, in opposition as well as in government, we are the guarantor of liberal values. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are voting red today because we would have preferred a different solution to this government crisis. Prime Minister's votes were introduced with our current constitution. For the Liberals, our position is something like this: We press green for a prime minister who leads a government of our own. We print red when we believe that other possible solutions should first have been examined or reconsidered by others. In other votes, when the President's proposal is direct and inevitable because the parliamentary situation is as it is, we press yellow or when we actually cooperate with a government, as has been the case in part during this parliamentary term. We do this on the basis of our own analysis of the situation. Other parties are allowed to provide their analysis and positions. The same applies in the case of votes of censure when the government's parliamentary support is being examined. For example, the Liberals voted red to the government Ingvar Carlsson after the 1994 elections and red in the vote of confidence against Göran Persson immediately after the 2002 elections. In both cases, the Liberals considered that there should first have been further and new attempts to test the conditions for other government alternatives for the good of Sweden. We did this even though in both cases it was well known in advance that the government could take up and remain because other parties made different choices than we did in the Liberals at the time. I would like to emphasise that voting red does not mean any criticism of the President's handling of the formation of the government. I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Liberals, to say that the President has now, as in the formation of the government after the elections in 2018, handled his task in a careful, impartial and in all respects meritorious manner. Thank you! Now other parties have closed other roads based on their own conclusions. We respect this even if we regret it. Liberals will now turn into constructive, independent opposition, and in this role we will continue to contribute in all areas to trying to solve Sweden's social problems in the best possible way.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-32	( TALMANN: Thank you for your kind words! )
i-39244588a9a1ef17-33	Mr President, I would like to We're not done. We hear that from the Social Democrats. We're not done. And that is the problem, Mr President. Unfortunately, there is still much to be done wrong. There is much left to destroy, even though seven years have been spent destroying a great deal. That is also the very reason why, ever since Stefan Löfven took office, we have wanted to remove him and have taken every given opportunity to act in the direction of setting aside a historically weak and historically poor government for Sweden. There have been seven lost years of failure after failure. Unemployment – the one who, as you know, last year would be the lowest in the European Union – has fallen to the bottom, and I do not know how many places there are left to fall, but there are not many. But you're not done yet, we've noted. The gangs would break. It's just gotten worse. I don't know how many shootings we've read about just the last 24 hours. It's just getting worse. Pensioners would have better living conditions. We're not there. The holes in the welfare were to be fixed. We are not there either – far from it. Not least the recent gigantic population growth in Sweden has made welfare more strained than ever, and it was before the pandemic that we are still in. Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven, in his role as Prime Minister and with his government, has failed with just everything. I have really tried to find something that Stefan Lövven's government has succeeded in, but there is nothing but that it has done things worse. The problem is, because the Social Democrats are not ready, that they will continue in that direction. I do not intend to do so, and the Swedish Democrats do not intend to do so. That will not happen on our mandates, and that is why we intend to vote against it in today's vote. It was not that long ago that we gathered here, the whole Parliament, to vote on, or at that time to remove, a prime minister. Here we are again. What has been achieved in these weeks? Not least, we have shown very clearly that we have had a historically weak and fragile government. It has now become even weaker and even more fragile. A large and decisive part of Stefan Lövven's government base is no longer there. That is an important thing that we have achieved in these weeks. We have also succeeded, once again and even more so than before, in clarifying the new political landscape that we have in Sweden where Sweden has become more normalized in a European perspective. New constellations grow so slowly while the old blocs no longer exist. It has also been important to show it clearly. The fact that a vote at the Center Party is a vote at Stefan Löfven is an important message in itself for voters when they go to elections next time, whether this happens this autumn or in a year's time. We have also managed to stop a bad proposal on market rents. For us, it was also a good message. Stefan Löfven is ready to re-enter as Prime Minister. It is a little unclear how he intends to get his policy through. It may seem irresponsible. It may seem that there is a limited reasonableness in taking up office without knowing that you actually have support for your political direction in Parliament. But that's a little significant for the Social Democracy. That's not so important, it's the power that matters, not what you can actually accomplish. Mr President, I would like to I would have liked the new political situation to have been tested in an extraordinary election. I believe that it would have been the best long-term and only opportunity to solve the knots that exist and to try to get Swedish political debate back into the subject matter and real problems for real people rather than the game that at least this whole parliamentary term has been about. This does not seem to be the case, but we will see how Parliament is handling this vote. At least we'll vote no and press the red button. Happy summer for all of you!
i-39244588a9a1ef17-47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Swedish people, participants in meetings and dear journalists! After the vote of censure by the Swedish Democrats on Stefan Löfven, no new government founder was elected. Sweden is still in a pandemic. We all have a responsibility to find a solution to this situation. I have been a member of the Riksdag since 2008, but since autumn 2019 I have been a partyless independent socialist. But I still have a responsibility for my constituents, especially those over 3,500 who voted for me. During this time I have tried to work constructively. I have addressed several critical interpellations and written questions to various ministers. I have also written many motions on, for example, honorary issues and Dawit Isaak and many party movements together with members from six of Parliament's eight parties. I am pleased to have, together with the Speaker and the Parliamentary Board representative Tobias Billström, found ways to be able to participate in the parliamentary work during the time when, for public health reasons, we have had a smaller parliament. I am an opposition politician who tries to compromise and cooperate on many issues and in difficult situations such as this. In my previous explanation of vote, I said that my vote could soon be decisive, and that has been the case. I have received massive support and been stopped several times in the subway and in the streets and squares by men, women and young people in the suburbs and in the city. I've received e-mails from pensioners who can't live on their pension. I have promised to fight for them. The same thing I have promised the Swedish-Somalist man who works for SL at Skärholmen subway and the young students who work at Ica. I also have a responsibility to work for all the children, girls and women who live daily under the pressure of honour. I'm helping them through neither whore nor hive. I was born a Kurdish girl in an Islamic dictatorship, and I was not taught my mother tongue. As a woman, the Sharia of Iran still does not allow you to be an entire human being. I've been fighting for my freedom and those of others. In Kurdistan, we had to do it with weapons. Politics has not been a career for me but a struggle for justice, equality, equality and freedom. I am not a savage but, on the contrary, very civilized, but I never give up the struggle for equal value. Politics is about trusting each other and giving and taking in difficult situations to make the country work. I have had constructive and respectful talks with several party representatives during these weeks, and I have made demands to support Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister today. For me, it is important to work towards a policy against profit hunting in welfare, honour repression and men's violence against women. Every year hundreds of millions of dollars are transferred to tax havens from students, sick and elderly. I want to fight for better conditions for the most vulnerable in society: sick leave, low-income workers, poor pensioners and all those who are subjected to honour and violence. Of course, I have not got all my demands through, but I am pleased that the government and the Social Democrats have been responsive and that we have been able to agree on some important points for a common political direction. Nor have I committed myself to supporting the points in the January agreement. Only two years ago I was publicly humiliated by a party leader who didn't want me to take my place and say what I thought. I'm glad I didn't fold down. You can't always be obedient, but you can always show other people respect. When I, as a little girl, gave myself up in the mountains to become a peshmergasoldat, I had no idea that I would once become a wavemaster in the Swedish parliament. And when the Swedish constitutions were written, it was probably not thought that an independent socialist with background as peshmergasoldat and who came to Sweden without having been allowed to go to school could get this role. But, Mr President, Sweden is a fantastic country that gives people opportunities. We should not reduce the problems we have with crime, clan structures, fundamentalism, honour oppression, unemployment and injustice, but we should be proud of the country we live in. And we who have been given the honour of sitting in Parliament have a responsibility to talk and seek compromises. I am both proud and grateful to be part of representing those who often lack a voice, and I am happy to be involved in trying to make a good country better.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-65	Mr President, I would like to What a red-green mess! S, V, MP and C do not seem to agree on anything about how the country should be governed – except that they all currently support Stefan Löfven and prefer to kick the problems ahead of them. V says that they let the Löfven go, but that the Löfven must then negotiate with them in order to get their budget through. C says they're letting Löfven go, but he's definitely not allowed to negotiate budget with V. S and C say they have found a political settlement, which is why the government can take office. MP says, however, that they are not in on the settlement but will still be in the government. We say that their time as a doormat is over and that they should have influence over the budget. They will not violate voting practices. C says that they can consider breaking practices, if the Löfven only deliver the opposite policies that the V stands for. And as a small, small red-green olive on top of it all, the government has negotiated a completely separate agreement with a left-wing wildebeest, albeit civilized. Amineh Kakabaverh – hat off! Nevertheless, a red-green mess. Or as it is now called in the Orwellian New Language: constructive. This is not good for Sweden. This is not how a country can be ruled. If Stefan Löfven had the best interests of Sweden in mind, he would have refused to take up office under such circumstances. At one time there was a Social Democracy who understood such things. When Rickard Sandler resigned as Prime Minister, he did so on the grounds that this government should fall rather than leave the government to decompose. We are voting today with the same motivation as Mr Sandler once did. It is better for this government not to take office than for you to set up with open eyes a government that can fall back at any time and is seemingly unable to get its budget through the House. The red - green mess makes this government a ticking bomb, ready to fly into the air at any time and throw us into another government crisis as early as autumn. Then it would be better to let the voters speak out in an extraordinary election right now. Two elections in less than a year would not be worthy. The responsibility for whether it will be so is Stefan Lövven, when he allows himself to be elected without knowing whether he can actually rule. Sweden deserves better. Sweden deserves better than seven difficult years with Löfven turning to eight. For in all this mess and in all this political game there are the social problems that a powerful government could have begun to solve in the year that remains before the next elections. A powerful government could have begun the health reform of the century so that we can put human dignity, not the system, at the centre of health care. A strong government could have started work to build away the shortage of retirement homes in order for all elderly people to have the right to security and community. A powerful government could begin work to give the police the tools they need against gang crime to allow all honest people to move freely wherever they live in the country. A powerful government could secure Swedish nuclear power, provide long-term sustainable migration laws and a policy for the whole country to live. A powerful government will be able to do all this on the day the voters have their say on this red-green mess. Today, the Christian Democrats will vote against the appointment of Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister again. We again make a promise to the Swedish people: Whenever the opportunity is offered, we take the opportunity to give Sweden a new leadership.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-80	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country, and we could be so much better if we just grabbed our problems and took up our opportunities. I know that so many more people in our country want to get something done and not just talk about why nothing is done. Over the last seven years, serious social problems have deepened. Crime and unemployment are setting new bottom-records. Outsidership is growing in our country, and welfare is threatened unless more people work and pay taxes. Few people think that Sweden is a better country today than seven years ago. The January Agreement was totally untenable from the outset. It was an agreement based on irreconcilable promises to the Center Party, the Green Party and the Left Party, where the forest was to be used and expropriated and where the renting would be both liberalised and left unchanged – depending on which party was asked. At the same time, part of the government base, the Left Party, would be isolated from any political influence. Now it is clear to everyone in Sweden and everyone in this House that the Left Party has a decisive influence on the government and on politics. The circus of recent days has shown that political conflicts are still tearing apart the remnants left over by the government's parliamentary support. The Social Democrats cannot explain how they will get their own budget through this autumn. Stefan Löfven is threatening, or possibly promising, that he will resign again in a few months' time. The Left Party does not intend to vote for a budget that they have not negotiated. The Center Party does not intend to vote for a budget negotiated by the Left Party. I understand that politicians' contempt is increasing in Sweden. The Green Party and the Centers disagree. Have they entered into an agreement to protect the ownership of forests, or have they not? The Center Party is now voting for a left-wing government on an agreement that half the government says does not exist. This all stems from a political delusion. A government based on the mandate of the Green Party and the Left Party will never be the guarantor of individual ownership, whether it is the forest, housing, labour income or savings. A government led by the Social Democrats will never have the power of reform to break the gross crime, to break the exclusion or to restore the line of work. It is also quite typical that this government fell on the question of rents in unbuilt rental apartments while everyone else in Sweden is appalled by the gross crime, the daily shootings and death in our suburbs. All parties, Mr President, must now choose their own path. Now the Center Party has gone from having been a stable force in a bourgeois government to becoming a consistent support party for a Social Democratic government. It is an important declaration of goods for the election in just over a year's time. Today, the Center Party is launching a government that is not only dependent on the Left Party and the Green Party, but which, in a direct negotiation with the socialist civilized savages of the Riksdag, has promised new attacks on freedom of choice at school and in welfare. There are now two options in Swedish politics. There is one that is based on the isolation of voters and parties, the writing of untenable agreements and the buying out of politics, and another that is based on honest problem analysis and factual politics. It is based on facts policy and on cooperation around Sweden's many problems to get something done too. The Moderates have chosen the path. It is our conviction that a successful government must be based on what it is for, not on what it is against. Sweden needs a government that can talk to everyone, of course, and compromise on issues where you want to go in the same direction. It is a government that knows what it wants and stands for it. It is a government that focuses on the country's major problems and our many opportunities. It is a government that understands that politics cannot and should not do everything, but that what politics does should politics do really well. Mr President, I would like to The moderate parliamentary group does not have confidence in the government. We see that a powerful bourgeois government could have taken office. We therefore vote against Stefan Löfven once again being elected Prime Minister of Sweden.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-94	Mr President, I would like to For 10 of the last 15 years, the Center Party has been responsible – either in the Alliance Government or as part of the January Agreement. This has meant that we have been able to help improve for people to live in the whole country. We have made important efforts for the climate, rural areas and gender equality, and we have made sure that people in exclusion have come closer to the labour market. We have shown that taxes can be significantly reduced, not least for those with low incomes. At the same time, we have invested a great deal of resources in strengthening welfare. In recent decades we have taken responsibility for Sweden together with the Moderates, the Social Democrats, the Liberals, the Environmental Party and the Christian Democrats. We continue to be open to cooperation with six of the eight parties in Parliament and with more mandates than any other party. This is the kind of middle cooperation that the January Agreement has been. In this parliamentary situation, we would be happy to continue working on the January agreement for another year. But the parliamentary and political situation in which the Moderates have at present been closely associated with the Swedish Democrats and where the Liberals have chosen to leave the January Agreement, unfortunately, there are no conditions for a broad middle cooperation involving other alliance parties. We are now the only alliance party that does not want to make us dependent on or cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. In this difficult parliamentary situation, the Center Party will therefore be in constructive opposition. We will not continue the budgetary cooperation with the government that we have had in recent years, but will present our own budget motion in Parliament this autumn and vote for it. The Center Party will not negotiate the budget with the Left Party. Nor will we contribute to a budget negotiated with the Left Party going through the Riksdag. At the same time, Sweden needs a government during the limited time left for the elections next year. We therefore choose to abstain from voting for Stefan Löfven. In order for us to do so, the nominated Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has pledged to implement three important reforms from the January agreement. It is about implementing the party agreement on LAS and labour market transition, strengthening forest ownership and reforming beach protection that makes it easier to live and live throughout the country. Stefan Löfven has announced that the government he leads will keep and implement that agreement. This is not our first choice. However, with the locks that exist from other parties, we believe that this is the best option we have today. In this way, the Center Party is taking a huge responsibility. We create the conditions for Sweden to be steered until the elections next year. We are securing important reforms for rural areas, property rights and the labour market. At the same time, we are creating the opportunity for the Center Party to act as a freer party in the coming years and thus be able to make more deals with both the Moderates, other alliance parties and with current government parties in order to improve Sweden further. We will go to elections in 2022 as a bourgeois liberal party, which continues to seek cooperation in the political centre. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party are going to abstain today, that is to say, to vote yellow.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-104	Mr President, I would like to We are celebrating democracy this year. In study material, new anthologies and seminars, we elected representatives have allowed citizens to take part in the construction of democracy to celebrate it with us. In schools, major study efforts are being carried out where students learn how it happened 100 years ago when the decisive club team fell into Parliament's second chamber. Sweden is a fantastic country where security has been combined with high employment, a strong business community and successful companies. But we have also seen how the Swedish model has been dismantled. Privatizations and cuts have become everyday. Long-term care queues, school deficits and low pensions have become increasingly problematic. When the accident occurs, people are denied sickness benefit even though they cannot work. The economic divides are growing at record speed in Sweden. Sweden is a good country, but we can do better. Now politics must move in a new direction. Democracy is under pressure today. Many feel that it doesn't matter what they vote for because it still just becomes the same policy. Democracy requires trust, trust, and that trust is best served by those who go and vote knowing that it makes a difference. It's about politics being not just fights and deals. The decision made on election day is important for the rent, the job, the hospital and the security system. You have a right to know what you're getting. The basis is to respect the vote cast by the voters in the ballot boxes. The Swedish people decide, and we are its representatives. We do not own our mandates. We get them on loan from the people we're set to represent. We will make laws and ensure that the country can be ruled. This calls for the formation of majorities. You don't have to control. However, if you are to govern, you must have a majority of the voters behind you, otherwise there is no legitimacy. It is as simple as that in a functioning democracy. Not everyone has to work with everyone. But those in a ruling majority need to do so. That is the rule of democracy. A prime minister is now being voted by four parties. One of these, the Center Party, has imposed a ban on the Prime Minister against his own government base. The Prime Minister will guess what the government base wants in the state budget. The Swedish people must think that this is a strange order, first to vote for a prime minister together and then to impose a compromise and a ban on negotiations with their own government base. It is not serious, especially with regard to his main instrument, the budget. It is an approach that lacks respect for the democratic spirit and the electorate. If a Social Democratic Prime Minister is elected today, it will therefore be a very difficult journey forward where the Prime Minister has been deprived of one of the most obvious tools of politics, namely to negotiate. In spite of this, the Left Party will release Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister when the issue of market rents is not on the table. We stand by our word and do what we have promised the voters. And – listen now, Ulf Kristersson! – 3 million tenants avoid rent increases. Stefan Löfven believes that he can gather the necessary evidence to get through a budget and has accepted to go forward despite the knowledge of the very strange situation we now have. That is why we are voting yellow today. However, we will continue to pursue the cause of our constituents. That's our job. The Left Party is prepared to join the majority and to be a constructive party to the necessary compromises for the stability of the country. That should be a matter of course for all parties voting for a prime minister today.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-114	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is a partner party. We are a small but powerful party with the ambition to change the whole world – clear climate goals, build a well-being within the framework of nature and create an equal society. We are also a party that stands up for the open democracy that has been built by many for a long time – a democracy based on something much broader than the voting rights that we are celebrating this year. It is a democracy with free media, protection of minorities, a strong rule of law, democratic institutions and a unique right to move around in forests and land. We know that we must work together with others to achieve success. That's why the Green Party is looking for solutions. Where others saw locks, we found possibilities. Where others believe in ultimatums and demand lists, we want to see giving and taking. We in the Green Party see the conditions for an alliance for decency in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We stand at a crossroads in Swedish politics that is unlike anything we have seen in decades. The right-wing nationalists are mobilizing – against human rights, against gender equality, against democracy. During my term of office, I have followed developments in the Skåne municipalities where the Swedish Democrats now have influence through different types of alliances with bourgeois parties. More people should pay attention to what is happening there, because it is appalling and horrifying. The democratic decision-making process is dismantled locally when both opposition and local media are withheld from transparency and information. When teachers tell us that they are limited in their mission to communicate knowledge and librarians are not allowed to choose which books to put on the shelves, we must react. When human rights symbols are stopped and decisions that run counter to the principles of the rule of law are pushed through, we cannot look the other way. When liberal values are challenged, we who have them here, in the heart, must rise up. Now the same forces want to rule an entire country. Looking at the role models in the form of what has happened in Trumps's USA and now happening in Orbán's Hungary, they see opportunities to change what the rest of us have taken for granted. We have been dusted by the arguments for obvious reasons such as the right to asylum and the right to abortion and that one can be Swedish and Jewish at the same time. We in the Green Party do not want to let this happen. The Social Democrats do not want to let that happen, nor does the Left Party or the Center Party. The alliance of decency holds. The Green Party is a partner party. In every cooperation we enter into, we take with us our green values and principles. At every opportunity where we gain influence, we will fight for equality, for nature, for peace and for the right of future generations to a good life. The Sweden that we love and are fighting for has a strong democracy and a functioning rule of law. There children grow up and develop to become what they want to be. We have forests full of life and amazing coastlines, which are accessible to all of us. We are attacking the double crises that we are facing. The threat to nature and the climate threat are real threats to our children's future. We must take them as seriously and attack them in the same way that we have done with the pandemic – through cooperation. After the Riksdag has given the green light to a prime minister, work is being done to bring together a budget that is accepted by the House. The Green Party will enter this work in a constructive spirit. We will also go into it with clear priorities. The recovery from the pandemic must be green. This is done through strong investment in infrastructure and cooperation with all those companies that want to be part of the transition to a fossil-free economy. The potential of the green industrial revolution will be fully exploited. The work against violence in close relationships will be financed. Care and care for the elderly need to be strengthened. Culture, civil society and the media need conditions for a recovery. We have a lot of work ahead of us. Let us focus on it rather than on political games. The Prime Minister who can best give our country the stability needed to focus on what is important is Stefan Löfven. The Green Party votes green for a red-green government with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister.
i-TdYU8sEc4jCiDZpG5ekM41	If at least 175 of the members of the Riksdag vote no, the Riksdag has rejected the proposal. Otherwise, it has been approved.
i-39244588a9a1ef17-130	May I ask the incoming Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, to come to the pulpit and get the appointment.
