i-00146e7ffaa115ca-2	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I intend to reduce or increase the overall tax burden on households. Jan Ericson has also asked what I am doing to ensure that Swedish taxpayers receive currency for their tax money and what I plan to do to ensure this better. The starting point should be that we in Sweden charge as much tax as is necessary to meet the social problems that exist. S the rate or the size of the public sector cannot in itself explain how well an economy works. The impact of taxes on employment and the economy can only be understood in terms of how taxes are collected and how tax revenues are used. There is of course a direct link between how much we jointly pay in taxes and what quality we can have in school, health care, care for the elderly and the judiciary. In addition, the starting point is that tax should be levied with as little efficiency losses as possible and in a legally secure manner. Furthermore, the tax system will contribute to reducing errors and cheating. I also note that my time as Minister of Finance has remained largely unchanged in terms of the overall tax ratio. In order to develop welfare activities and reduce the need for tax increases in the municipal sector, the government has increased the general state grant during its term of office. On the question of what I am doing to ensure that taxpayers receive currency for their tax money, I would like to mention the following. Firstly, the government is constantly working to ensure that tax money is used effectively. The budgetary policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag and the regular budgetary process require work on priorities and a continuous review of where tax funds are most useful. Secondly, the Swedish National Audit Office examines what the state's money is spent on and how efficiently it is used. Through the letters submitted by the Government to the Riksdag in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's reviews, there is a continuous discussion on how tax funds should be used effectively. Thirdly, there are additional measures for the effective use of state resources. For example, the Swedish Financial Control Agency has for some years been given additional resources to carry out government assignments and make proposals for efficiency improvements in the state. Fourthly, I would like to mention the additional efforts made by the government to reduce undue payments and combat crime against welfare systems. Over time, attacks on welfare systems have become more systematic and advanced. This means that it is more difficult to detect, investigate and remedy multi-person approaches where more than one authority may be concerned. Particularly serious are systematic and organised crime schemes. The government therefore intends to establish a new authority that will be tasked with countering fraud and mispayments through system-wide analyses of payments from welfare systems. The agency will also have the task of paying compensations decided by welfare authorities, such as the Social Insurance Agency – this so that tax money will not fall into the hands of fiddlers and criminals.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-14	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns two different interpellations which I have made to the Minister for Finance, which has now been responsible for Sweden's fiscal policy for almost eight years. The government would like to highlight its modest tax reductions in this year's draft budget, which, according to the government, will give the most SEK 110 per month to an employee, and points out that this money can be used to buy take away coffee or go to the hairdresser. For the employee where SEK 110 per month in tax reduction is significant, take away coffee is hardly the first priority. Then, when rising electricity costs and increased petrol taxes strike, the 110 kroner is quickly eaten up and turned into a minus. In fact, the overall tax burden on many households has increased in recent years. The green tax shift has become a green tax increase. Sweden today has the world's almost highest tax burden. My question was whether the Minister for Finance believes that the overall tax burden should be reduced or increased. She replies that the tax burden has remained largely unchanged during her time as Minister of Finance. That is not an answer to my question, so I repeat: does the Minister of Finance think that the tax burden of the next term of office should be increased, reduced or unchanged? It is a simple and clear question. My second question was whether Swedish taxpayers really get currency for their tax money. Sweden thus has a very high tax burden internationally, but many believe that our welfare, our legal system and our security systems do not keep a reasonable level in relation to the high tax we pay. In the long run, it is extremely dangerous for tax standards. I do not think many people are impressed by the Minister for Finance's reply that the government is constantly working on this issue. If taxpayers are to be given currency for their tax money, wiser priorities are needed. Madam President, I would like Prior to the 2014 elections, Stefan Löfven promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. Now we know how it went. Today, only three EU countries have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. We are now in place 24 out of 27 countries. Moreover, we have higher unemployment than the EU average, which has never happened before since we joined the EU in 1995. We have now also lost the position of the EU country with the highest employment rate. In fact, everything has gone in the wrong direction in the Swedish labour market since 2014, both during a strong boom and during the pandemic. As many as 675 000 people of working age today cannot support themselves on their own jobs, and long-term unemployment is a record high. Another serious social problem is the serious crime, which now threatens ordinary citizens, who at the same time are increasingly concerned about breaking and entering, stealing, rape and other violent crimes. As recently as yesterday, the Report concluded that killings have become everyday and that 170 people have been shot to death in Sweden since 2018. In a situation where we have the almost highest unemployment rate in the EU and a record long-term unemployment and where organised crime is a growing social problem, the government chooses to prioritise new leave reforms rather than investing in central parts of our welfare and security. This is not giving taxpayers currency for tax money. The government is now also introducing targeted support for economically mismanaged municipalities. Municipalities that mismanaged their finances and raised municipal taxes in order to sometimes spend money on unnecessary things should be able to get extra subsidies while municipalities that fixed the mouth after the food bag do not receive any support. Municipalities that have borrowed huge amounts of money for operation will receive support, while municipalities that have controlled the economy will be disadvantaged. Nor is this a priority for the use of tax money. My second question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: does she really think that new leave reforms and support for economically mismanaged municipalities are more important than investing in justice, police, reduced tax rates for ordinary employees and pensioners and a more effective policy to make more people self-sufficient?
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-26	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson says that everything has gone the wrong way in the Swedish labour market during this government. So speaks a representative of a party who obviously does not care whether people are working or not. The truth is that during this government, 350 000 more jobs were created before the crisis, and in the midst of the deepest economic crisis since the Second World War, a higher proportion of the adult population worked than when the Moderates handed over government power to Stefan Löfven. Larger number, higher share. I therefore do not share Jan Ericson's view. I think it's good that people work. In addition, in recent years we have seen more people entering the labour market, partly because of the reforms introduced by the government. Among other things, we abolished the custody allowance, which made foreign born women stay at home instead of looking for a job. Then you can't see in the unemployment statistics. It was the Moderates' response to bringing unemployment down. I think that was a bad answer. We have also redeployed parental insurance so that more foreign-born women can enter the labour market more quickly. Then you can see in the unemployment statistics. You do not do that if you, as a newly arrived woman, instead go on parental leave year after year. I think this is a bad way to reduce unemployment. Having said that, of course, everyone who enters the labour market should get into work and have the opportunity to get a foothold in the labour market. There the government has a wide range of proposals in the budget that build on, among other things, the major educational efforts that we have made. Is it a value for tax money that a nurse who has worked hard in the care of the elderly, not least now during the coronan, a police officer who works hard, a health professional or a shopkeeper has the opportunity to be free through a family week instead of having to take one of the holiday days from his five-week holiday when the preschool has closed for planning days? Is this getting money for tax money or not? I think that many parents of young children think it is a typical such thing that is the currency of tax money, just like the parental leave we have, which makes it easier for families with children to work and have a family at the same time. All the reforms that we Social Democrats have proposed and introduced precisely to make it easier for families with children to combine work and family life have been opposed by the Moderates. Of course you are against this too, Jan Ericson, but you will then accept it once it has been implemented. It's a story we know about. If I think that we should raise, reduce or maintain the same level of taxation is an issue that I do not think is correctly formulated, but the question is how to ensure that we have enough resources to solve the social problems we have and that need to be resolved jointly. Of course, how much tax you levy is also about the progress of employment trends, because when more people get into work, as they have done with government policies, tax revenue comes in that will enable you to solve social problems. Then you can bet but still keep the same levels of taxation as you currently have.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-35	Madam President, I would like That is the old usual answer from the Minister for Finance and the Government when it is discussed that Sweden has managed the worst with the employment of all countries across the EU. There are clear statistics on that. The fact that more people get into work when the population is increasing as dramatically as it has done over the past five to six years is quite natural, but it is still the case that we have the worst unemployment development of all countries in the European Union. If high taxes were a guarantee of good welfare and a secure society, Sweden would hardly have had any problems. The Minister for Finance thinks that the question of what the tax burden should be is wronged and that what is important instead is how to ensure that we secure welfare and so on. Then my answer and that of the Moderates is that we should prioritise how to use our tax money. With the right priorities, you can both safeguard society's important needs and reduce tax – at the same time. We Moderates have proven in the past that it works. For example, we Moderates save a significant number of billions on extremely high aid that is larger than the entire Swedish budget for the police, an aid that is now so large that they have lost control of how the money is used and where Swedish taxpayers today pay the most in the world in aid per person while we do not have order in our own country. In fact, Swedish citizens also pay the most per person to the EU and most per person to the UN, and now we will also pay the most in the world in climate aid. But, Madam President, we actually need some of this money in our own country if we are to get Sweden in order. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, only have a solution to make a constantly growing budget go together, and it spells tax increases. Many taxes have already been raised, and the proposals for new socially harmful taxes, which also pose a threat to the private economy of ordinary people, are boisterous. There is almost a treasure in the Social Democrats. All taxes go up. It has so far been about tax increases on labour, entrepreneurship, saving, housing, transport and energy, but we have also seen that in practice, we have implemented socially harmful taxes on electronics, clothing, air travel, chemicals, waste incineration, plastic bags and a lot of other things. We do not know today what taxes will be increased or introduced with a continued Social Democratic government. The only thing we know is that the tax burden will increase completely regardless of what the Minister of Finance says here today. You sometimes get the feeling that the Minister for Finance and her party believe that the state actually owns all the money that people work together and that in its goodness you can possibly let people keep a little when the state has taken its. 110 SEK extra in tax reduction next year is what the government offers, while raising a lot of other taxes, but the starting point is that it is probably the government's money. I think it is a rather disrespectful basic view of how much of their income hardworking people should be allowed to keep. We also know that the willingness of the Minister for Finance to reduce taxes is, to say the least, limited. In an interview in Expressen last year, the Minister of Finance expressed a rather startling view of tax cuts. She said she doesn't want to hear any dorkies 'cause it's about cutting taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. In this round, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether she believes that the tax cuts that the government has implemented, such as abolished military tax or 110 SEK at most for a wage earner next year, are also to be regarded as geekism and whether she believes it is nerdy that a nurse or police officer who worked night may retain a little more of her post-tax ob-reimbursement.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-42	Madam President, I would like If arguments are scarce, you have to slip on the facts or choose to close your ears when the Minister of Finance speaks. It seems to be Jan Ericson's tactics. He says that it is no wonder that more people are working now than in 2014 because the Swedish population has grown. That's quite correct, but now that's not what I said. I said the proportion has increased. In the midst of the crisis, the proportion was higher than it was when the Moderates were in government. Jan Ericson says that we are raising all taxes and that we are just raising and raising, but I told you that the tax rate has remained basically unchanged in my years as Minister of Finance. Why does Jan Ericson say that anyway? What's the point of that, Jan Ericson? Do the Moderates have no better arguments? Are there no arguments based on facts? I shall, of course, read the article from the Express to which Jan Ericson refers. I'm sure the quote is taken out of context. There must have been a question there. It is possible that it is about how to finance welfare or increase equality. I would think that the question was either how to increase equality or how to finance welfare and that in those contexts I did not want to hear about tax cuts as the answer to that particular question.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-45	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance and the Social Democrats have the same mantra all the time. They do not pretend that the problems in the labour market exist. They simply pretend that it has become better, when everyone knows it has become worse, when everyone knows that Sweden has slipped down to 24th place among the 27 countries of the EU, while the Prime Minister promised that we would be number one by 2020. Then the Minister of Finance tries to relativise this and say that there are indeed more people working than it was in 2006. Yes, it is, but the question is not about that, but about that we have succeeded much worse than everyone else. As far as taxes are concerned, quite a few households have experienced higher taxes. That the Minister of Finance says that the overall overall tax burden may not be higher, but for many individual households it is a completely different picture. That's who I'm talking about. For example, those who have avoided the military tax have received a lower tax rate, and they have probably had a lower tax burden. But for very many with normal income and average income there have been higher taxes. Madam President, I would like In a number of interpellation debates with the Minister of Finance over the years, I have talked about both taxes and other issues. This is likely to be the last before the Minister of Finance changes his duties. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Finance to reply to a very specific question about what taxes she wants to raise. The question is highly relevant, as Magdalena Andersson is in all probability the future party leader of the Social Democrats. Then the question is: Is she and her party going to raise taxes on labour, savings, real estate and energy? These are four concrete questions to which the Swedish people want answers. Anyone who votes for the Social Democrats in the next election is otherwise likely to buy the pig in the sack. What if the Minister of Finance was able to surprise in his closing speech and today, for the first time, to give some answers instead of fighting with unbalanced rallar wings against her counter-debaters as she usually does in her closing speeches when no one else has speaking time left? Now it's up to the Minister of Finance to prove it. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-50	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry if Jan Ericson thinks I'm a too sharp debater. But I have appreciated our debates. Given how many interpellations Jan Ericson, who is a diligent Member of Parliament, has made to me, I would suspect that he, too, has somewhat appreciated these debates. How different taxes will develop in the future, I would like to see a broader and comprehensive tax review discussed. There are many holes, gaps and illogicalities in our tax system. I would therefore like to see a more thorough tax reform that looks through this so that the tax system becomes fairer, clearer, easier to understand and more logical than it is today. But we have been very clear all along, despite the fact that the Moderates are out arguing that we are proposing an increase in property tax, that any proposal for an increase in property tax for small houses is not something on the table. We have been extremely clear there. But even when we are clear, it is moderates who are locally out and claim that we still want to increase property tax. All you have to do is regret it. But it does indicate that it is just as I said in my last speech, that when the Moderates have thin arguments, they have to resort to this type of action instead. Sometimes it's about they resorting to pure lies – not Jan Ericson, but other MPs from the Moderates – or trying to look through the facts. Having said that, we will of course continue to pursue a policy in which the people who are now entering the labour market, and who were not in the labour force during the time of the Moderates, also come into work.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-54	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to take urgent steps to increase the powers of the Customs Agency and whether the Government intends to give the Customs Agency more resources to step up the control of professional drivers entering the country. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs puts other people at great risk. It cannot be tolerated, whether in commercial or other traffic. It is therefore important that there are rules that prevent drunk driving and that there is a good chance of detecting crime on our roads. Officials of the Customs Administration have the same authority as a police officer to arrest a person suspected of serious drunk driving. Customs officials may, in addition to arresting a suspect, also take care of vehicle keys and vehicles, search the vehicle and decide on body visa or body inspection. Customs officials can also dispose of driving licences. If a driver is suspected of driving under the influence of drugs, a customs official today may also conduct an eye examination and force the person to take a blood test. There is also an investigation proposal to introduce screening tests for drugs, i.e. in the same way as for alcohol, sampling should be possible even without a criminal suspicion. The proposal is now being further prepared within the Government Office. In the budget proposal, the Government has proposed to strengthen the Swedish Customs Administration's administrative appropriations by SEK 70 million for 2022. The use of the funds allocated is primarily a matter for the Finnish Customs within the framework of their mission. I might also add that in recent years, the Swedish Customs Agency has received substantially increased funding to be able, among other things, to switch up in law enforcement work. The Customs Agency carries out a large number of drunk driving checks. The number of drunk driving checks carried out in recent years is on average between 50 000 and 60 000, with the exception of 2020 when there was a sharp decrease due to reduced traffic during the pandemic.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-62	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Road safety is an extremely important issue, and it is something that I have worked with almost all my adult life. Fatal traffic accidents can happen to any one of us at any time. None of us who are in this House today even know if we are coming home tonight. We also do not know if the police will stand on the stairs and announce that a close relative has passed away in a traffic accident. During the 12 years that I worked with the traffic police, we took in our unit three drug-affected drivers in heavy vehicles. Now Tullverket says that they take about two drivers a week down in Skåne that are affected by narcotics. It is mainly foreign drivers who enter the country who carry drugs with them in order to carry out the tough driving passes they are expected to carry out. What that means for the rest of us is easy to figure out. If a truck is driven at 80 kilometers per hour and comes across the wrong side and clashes with a passenger car, the speed of the truck drops at the moment of collision from 80 kilometers per hour to 73 kilometers per hour. What happens to those in the passenger car is easy to figure out. I would say that we have had a tradition in Sweden that means that we have a driving force in the Nordic countries that has a very high standard when it comes to being sober behind the wheel. But what we are seeing now is that we are getting in people who are sitting in heavy vehicles and who have a different view of this. They use drugs to drive inhumanely. This situation has been created because there have not been enough checks on the roads, and the prosecutors have not really been involved in the game. This has meant that cases relating to drivers who have been stopped and reported for offences against driving and rest periods, manipulated tachographs and several driver cards have been closed because it has been considered that the punishment has not been proportionate to the crime that has been committed. This has created the situation that it has become free to drive because the drivers risk so little at a checkpoint. And it is required of the drivers who will drive into Sweden that they should basically drive around the clock. To do this, they have to use drugs of various kinds. This is an eerie development. I have been training drivers for many years, and I have been active behind the wheel myself. It is constantly trying to improve and minimise the risks of traffic. Especially if you're the driver of a heavy vehicle, it's even more important to be sober, rested and judgment-driven. A driver who takes amphetamines, for example, does not live up to any of this. Every meter these vehicles roll on the road endangers the others. During my 12 years at the traffic police, I investigated some 300 fatal accidents to see if vehicles, drivers, or roads were the cause. And I have met relatives who have lost children, parents, siblings and so on in a traffic accident and seen their bottomless grief. I am deeply concerned about the developments that are taking place, and I think that the government must take this more seriously and ensure that more controls and sharper tools are put on the roads.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-71	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell raises an extremely important question, namely how things stand on our roads. I think it is good that we have a zero vision of road mortality in Sweden and that it is something we work for – that it is a clear goal and what governs the government's work on safety on our roads. I share Thomas Morell's view that it is extremely worrying if it is the case that we have an increased proportion of drug-affected drivers behind the wheel of the heavy vehicles that run our roads. Thomas Morell says that this has come about because we have too few controls. I share the view that it is extremely important that we have a lot of controls, but I think we should raise our eyes and also have a bigger discussion in society about why Swedish companies hire haulage companies that have drivers who drive drugs or require drivers to manipulate tachographs so that they can drive more than you get – and therefore take drugs to cope with it. Why do Swedish companies hire such haulage companies? This issue also needs to be discussed in society, because it is a choice that companies make. I also understand that this is about a competitive situation, but the industry might take a discussion together – not only the haulage industry but also Swedish industry as a whole. This is not how we should have it on our roads. Having said that, it is important that there are tools and controls. There should be many and thorough checks and tools for the authorities when they find drivers who drive under the influence of drugs or onyktra. There are two investigations now being prepared in the Government Office. One is about being able to do a screening in the same way as you can today with alcohol – today you can randomly test drivers for alcohol effects, and you should be able to do random tests for drug effects as well. Even a sharper scale of penalties for drunk driving and driving under the influence of drugs has been looked over. These proposals are therefore currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is very important that we can have a high level of safety on our Swedish roads.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson! You can count in money what a traffic accident costs the community. When I left the traffic police, a fatal accident was estimated to cost the community about 17 million, and I left the traffic police in 2007. The fact that this figure is significantly higher today is quite likely. But when it comes to people being killed and injured in road accidents, money cannot be counted. A lost human life cannot be put on a price tag; it is a complete disaster for the family. What happened the night of August 24 was that a truck ride went off the road on the E4 at Gränna. It was loaded with 26 tons of steel beams, and the gross weight of the combination was about 45 tons. If the Minister of Finance has passed Gränna, she knows that there is a difference in level between the directions of travel. So this car went off, down towards the oncoming, down a slope – there was a level difference there – and landed out on the roadway for oncoming. If there had been a passenger car there, it is easy to figure out what the result would have been. The whole combination landed on the opposite track. Since it is a highway, it is likely that a passenger car would have kept 110 kilometers an hour, and the truck probably held 80. It turned out to be a foreign driver who was under the influence of drugs. Now the sentence has fallen, and it became prison. I think that's great, because that's where you should sit if you can't stay away from drugs when you drive heavy vehicles. Just a little while after this, a car went off the road again, in almost exactly the same place. Even this time there was a foreign drug-affected driver. If you listen to what Customs says, you know that they take about two drivers a week, and then we have these accidents on the E4 that could have had tremendous consequences if there had been a hit with oncoming vehicles. So the darker number is big. How many people out there are driving affected? I noted in the reply from the Minister for Finance that there is a proposal that is being further prepared within the Government Office. That is, of course, a good thing, but, as we have said in so many other debates, why is it taking so long? This issue has not come up like that, as a New Year's rocket, but it has been going on for quite a long time. There are many who have pointed out the developments we have seen along the way. So there has been good time to do something up to now, and one should have gone further than preparing an investigation. Actually, I have to tell you. I very much hope that the Minister for Finance is now trying to speed this up so that we get the tools and more resources. It's about at least stopping them at the border so they don't get in. They are so brazen that they even have the narcotics on the table inside the cabin so that they can take a dose from time to time to drive. They're not even ashamed because there's drugs in the cabin! It would have been one thing if they put it away so it wouldn't be visible, but it's completely open. There are pictures from Tullverket where you can see how they have laid up lines to make it quick and easy to strengthen themselves to continue driving.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-83	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell asks why we haven't done anything. It is not that the government has done nothing, but we have worked actively in a wide range of areas to increase safety on our roads – so also when it comes to heavy traffic and the fact that you should be alert, sober and not drug-affected when driving heavy traffic in Sweden. Increased resources have been added to the Swedish Customs Agency in recent years; since we entered the government position, we have repeatedly increased the resources of the Swedish Customs Agency to enable them to be more active. I also think it is good that the Customs Agency does many checks. We have also increased the possibility of random breath tests, and we are now looking at how this is to be done in relation to drugs. In addition, we have strengthened Customs' powers in the field of law enforcement in a wide range of ways. As late as August this year, the Finnish Customs had the right, when taking measures in connection with drunk driving or drug driving, to initiate a preliminary investigation into the possession and use of narcotics and other dangerous goods. So we have taken a long series of steps, and I would very much like to have the opportunity to continue working to increase safety on our roads. But if this is to be possible, it is also important that there is a discussion in the Swedish business community about which road hauliers are hired and what working conditions they have. Here too, the companies in Sweden must take responsibility. Of course, we will do everything we can on the part of the government to ensure that there are thorough checks, but the business community must also take responsibility for who is hired.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson! With regard to industry and their use of this type of transport, it is also something that has been the subject of a number of debates in this House. We must ensure that there is clear customer responsibility where those who use this type of transport are also penalised when the regulations are not complied with. The government made an attempt to tighten up the client responsibility in July 2018, but it did not hold a legal review. There, instead, the suspects were exonerated. It's the money that controls in the end. That is why we have the situation. If the industry is faced with the choice to pay perhaps SEK 90 – 100 mil for a transport that does not comply with the regulations or to pay SEK 200 – 250 mil for a transport where the haulage company actually pays both taxes and charges and gives drivers reasonable working conditions and a salary they can live on, the industry does not choose the more expensive transport. You choose the one who is cheap and close your eyes to all the consequences around you. Now we are talking about drugs, which are in the picture, but there are also many other things in this, such as the smuggling of weapons and drugs. This is connected. I have had discussions with the Minister for Finance, with Damberg and with Tomas Eneroth. There are several different departments involved in this, and I feel that there is no overall approach to the problem. I sincerely hope that Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, in his new role, can push this forward so that we finally get some order. I would also like to thank you for the debate, because this is probably the last time that we are debating.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-92	Madam President, I would like I think it is good to have all the measures taken by the government to improve the safety of our roads and the working conditions of those working on our roads. It is just as Thomas Morell says: It is about measures that have been taken in my field and within the Ministry of Justice – in Morgan Johansson's field – and about infrastructure issues, which are Tomas Eneroth's area. There is a collective responsibility here, but we all work to strengthen road safety in different ways. The government will of course continue that work with full force. It is important both that it is safe and secure on our roads and that it is possible for Swedish truck drivers to have safe work with decent working conditions. We will then have to deal with the deviations that we see today, when people are allowed to work under totally unreasonable working conditions which presuppose that they manipulate the tachograph and when they have such working hours that they use drugs to cope with. This is a completely unreasonable procedure, and the companies that employ hauliers who have drivers employed on these working conditions have a huge responsibility that they need to take on. Just as Thomas Morell is talking about, of course, it is about money. Against this should be put all the examples that Thomas Morell has mentioned with people who have lost loved ones in a traffic accident because a driver has been affected. Here we need the government to continue to work hard, but the Swedish business community must also take responsibility for the working conditions of the drivers it hires. This is the only way we can get safety on our roads and decent working conditions for Swedish drivers.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-96	Madam President, I would like Christian Carlsson has asked me a number of questions. I will answer them in turn. Christian Carlsson has asked me why I chose not to set up an independent review of the implementation and knowledge results in Pisa after the first warnings at the Ministry of Education on 4 December 2019. The Swedish National Agency for Education published the report on Pisa 2018 on 3 December 2019. The Ministry of Education got access to the report on the day it was published, and then the work began to review the report. In a short and quickly developed internal work material, the assessment was made, among other things, that the exclusion rate was too high given the immigration that has been the year or years up to Pisa's implementation in spring 2018, but that the overall conclusions on the results of reading understanding remained. Both the Swedish National Agency for Education, which is responsible for the Pisa study's implementation in Sweden, and the OECD, which leads and organizes Pisa, have both during the publication of the Swedish National Agency for Education's report and since then maintained that Pisa 2018 was conducted in accordance with current guidelines and that there was no reason to question the result. Nevertheless, I have asked questions about the exclusion rate to the Swedish National Agency for Education, which has been clear that the results are reliable. The information and answers the Swedish National Agency for Education gave together made me not see the need to take further action at that time. On the other hand, I thought it was positive that the Swedish National Agency for Education commissioned the OECD to review the Swedish Pisa study when in June 2020 there were suspicions in the media that students were wrongly excluded. The OECD is an organisation with good competence to review the Swedish Pisa study. Since it was the Swedish National Agency for Education that was the principal, there was no communication about the report between the government and the OECD, either during or after implementation. When the OECD presented its report, the Swedish National Audit Office had launched a review on Pisa 2018, which the government wanted to wait for any further action to be taken. However, the government can subsequently conclude that the errors that occurred in the OECD report should have been highlighted by the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Government. Christian Carlsson has also asked why I have claimed before the Swedish Parliament that I had no information that would suggest that students were excluded on incorrect grounds. In my answer to a written question from a Member of Parliament, my intention was to answer the question whether I knew that students were knowingly excluded from taking the Pisa test, and contrary to the OECD regulations. When the question was answered, I did not have any information that students were consciously, and contrary to the OECD regulations, excluded from taking the Pisa test. Both the Swedish National Agency for Education and the OECD have consistently maintained that Pisa 2018 has been implemented in accordance with current guidelines. Christian Carlsson has also asked how the Prime Minister was informed that too many students had been excluded from participating in the Pisa survey. The Swedish National Audit Office's review Pisa 2018 – The work to ensure reliable student participation (RiR 2021:12) makes the assessment that for many students were excluded in connection with the Pisa survey 2018. The Swedish National Audit Office's report was published on 29 April 2021, and I informed the Prime Minister orally about the content of the report in connection with it. The interpellant has finally asked how the Government intends to proceed with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to the Government in RiR 2021:12. Madam President, I would like The Government has recently decided on a letter setting out what measures the Government intends to take in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review( 2021/ 22:39). The letter will shortly be submitted to the Riksdag. In addition, on 6 May 2021, the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to strengthen its efforts to ensure a high level of participation in accordance with the OECD's current guidelines in Pisa 2022.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-107	Madam President, I would like Too many students were wrongly excluded from the PISA survey in 2018. It was about children with foreign background and a lack of language skills, but also about pupils with disabilities and pupils who were absent at the trial. The lack of knowledge in Sweden has therefore been greater than what the Minister for Education Anna Ekström and the Government have previously shown. In December 2019, the Ministry of Education already had information from the government's own officials that too many students had been excluded. The Minister for Education was aware of this, but despite the warnings, the government did not do enough to follow up on the suspected errors. The Swedish National Audit Office has strongly criticised the Government for this. But not only that – in a written reply to the Riksdag on 9 July 2020, the Minister of Education replied that she had no information that would suggest that pupils had been excluded on incorrect grounds and therefore had no reason to question the official statistics. This is what makes the Pisa scandal so serious. Madam President, I would like Why did the Minister of Education claim that she had no information that would suggest that students were wrongly excluded? We have heard the Minister for Education Anna Ekström say that she has not deliberately lied to the Riksdag, but whether the Minister has lied deliberately or accidentally, she has gone untruthfully. The question was: Did the Minister know that students were deliberately, and contrary to the OECD regulations, excluded from taking the Pisa exam? The Minister replied word for word that she had no information that would suggest that pupils were wrongly excluded. But this was not true. This was precisely the kind of information that the Minister was provided with by his own officials in the internal memo of December 2019. If the Minister meant anything other than what she said, she should have responded as she meant. Not doing so is not good enough, because the Swedish Parliament must be able to trust that what the ministers answer is true and not false. How else can the Swedish people have confidence in their government?
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-112	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by pointing out that when Christian Carlsson says that it would be demonstrated that the lack of knowledge in Swedish schools is greater than what the government has said, it is a speculation on the part of Christian Carlsson. What the Swedish National Audit Office says in its review can be expressed as there are questions about how the exclusions have taken place. The Swedish National Audit Office also criticises the Swedish National Agency for the fact that, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish National Agency for Education has not sufficiently followed up on how the exclusions were carried out at the schools. I would also like to make it quite clear that when the results of the PISA study were presented in December, it was clear to everyone that exclusions were high. The excludings in Pisa 2018 stand out. They have increased compared to previous PISA surveys. They also stand out as a high exclusion figure in comparison with other international investigations. If we can now see that everyone saw that the exclusion figures were high when the results of the PISA survey were presented, does that mean that they were too high? In the memo that I ordered as soon as the officials at the department saw that the exclusion rate was high, the officials who quickly produced a basis for me wrote – now I will read before so that it becomes absolutely right – that the exclusion rate was too high given the immigration that has been the years until Pisa was carried out in 2018, but that the overall conclusions drawn from the results in reading understanding remained. It is worth recalling that, throughout this period, it has been repeatedly stated that although the exclusion rate would have been too high, there is no reason to question the improved results compared to Pisa 2012 in the conclusions already drawn when the PISA study was presented. My conclusion and the analysis that needs to be done on the basis of the international surveys and the Swedish register data available is that the knowledge results in Swedish schools have bottomed and are on their way up. And it is a picture that is supported by the various international surveys but also by our Swedish register data. I would like to take this opportunity to add that the PISA study, which we are discussing here, is being carried out by the international organisation OECD. The OECD is also the organisation that has set up the regulatory framework for Pisa. For me and for the government, it is self-evident that we should be able to rely on our international investigations. We'll be able to trust Pisa. The regulatory framework established by the OECD shall be followed. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to ensure high participation in the next Pisa survey, which we will be presented in a while.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-119	Madam President, I would like The government presented Pisa 2018 as a great success. I think it was described as a day of joy, but there was no support for this because of the errors that occurred. In view of this, I believe that the lack of knowledge has been greater than what the government has actually shown. Madam President, I would like We have been told that the Minister for Education will have followed up the suspected errors in connection with Pisa 2018 in talks with the Swedish National Agency for Education and that the government will then have received satisfactory answers. However, if the government really was serious about wanting to know the truth about the results of the knowledge, the Minister should have drawn the attention of the National Board of Education to the government's own PM, where it was found that an excessive proportion of the students had been excluded. Apparently, that's not what happened. When the Swedish Parliament's Education Committee questioned the Director General of the Swedish National Agency for Education Peter Fredriksson, he replied that the Minister for Education never shared the Swedish National Agency for Education with calculations that showed that for many students had been excluded and that it could have affected Sweden's Pisa results. The Minister should not even have informed the Director-General that the Government had made its own calculations indicating errors. The government did not do enough to follow up on the suspected errors, and that is also what the National Audit Office has stated. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Agency for Education failed with the implementation of Pisa 2018. As the government did not get to the bottom of the suspected errors, the lack of knowledge was covered up. The Minister for Education has also, knowingly or unconsciously, lied to the Riksdag. The errors in connection with Pisa 2018 are a school policy scandal. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, who is responsible for this government, has called the criticism of the Pisa scandal preposterous. He has even asked those who were critical not to be so angry. Given the tone from the Swedish Prime Minister, one wonders what Prime Minister Stefan Löfven himself knew about the Pisa scandal. How was he informed that too many students were excluded from participating in the PISA survey? The Minister for Education has now replied that she informed the Prime Minister about the Swedish National Audit Office's report when it was published on 29 April 2021. But, Madam President, that report could hardly have been missed by the Prime Minister, because it was the one that made the Pisa scandal burst into national media. The big question remains: Had the Prime Minister previously taken note of the government's memo, which showed that too many students had been excluded and that it could have affected Sweden's Pisa results?
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-125	Madam President, I would like I will be happy to inform Christian Carlsson about how the work in a department is done. For me as the responsible Minister of State and for everyone who takes part in a major international investigation, it is important that it has been properly implemented and that we can rely on the results. And, Madam President, the Pisa study is large and important. When I get to take part in such investigations, I regularly receive various forms of underhand memos from my officials. In this case, I myself had asked for an underhand spromemoria to look at the degree of exclusion, because it was undeniably high. It seemed obvious at first glance at the Pisa study. When I was then able to take note of the quickly drawn up evidence from the officials, I used it in exactly the same way as I always used such evidence and laid the groundwork for my actions. On the basis of the information in the memo, I asked the Director-General of the National Agency for Education a number of questions, and in other contexts, too, I looked into this matter. These were also issues that the Director General, according to what I have been told, told the Education Committee that he had received from me on several occasions in the spring of 2020. The memorandum that is made a big deal of here is a very customary document that is used in the day-to-day work and that is not produced for publication or forwarding. Before we give out memos of this kind in the departments and make them public, we do a thorough quality assurance, to which this memorandum had not been subject. I used it, exactly as I always do with memos, as a basis for my actions. Christian Carlsson claims that in the memorandum it is claimed that this could have affected Sweden's Pisa results. One of the things that stands in black and white in the memo that I received from the evening after the report of the PISA study is that the overall conclusions drawn from the results of reading understanding remained. It was a very important enlightenment in the memorandum and an enlightenment that, although it was included, made it important for me to go further and also look at the degree of exclusion. It was high. Was it too high, as indicated in the memo? There, according to my assessment, I received good and clarifying answers from the National Agency for Education. I can also note that the answers I received from the Swedish National Agency for Education about the degree of exclusion were very similar to the answers that the Swedish National Agency for Education published on its website and which the Swedish National Agency for Education also shared with the committee during its numerous visits to the committee on this issue.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-132	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the Minister for Education has asked questions to the Director General of the National Agency for Education. What the Director-General says is that the Minister of Education did not give the memo or that it was informed that it had its own calculations indicating errors. I would like to thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for her answers. Because the government has not sufficiently followed up the suspected errors, despite warnings from its own officials, the lack of knowledge in Swedish schools has been darkened. It is a school policy scandal, but above all it is a betrayal of the students who are now lagging behind and are not given the opportunity to succeed in school. The Swedish National Audit Office has not only strongly criticised the Government and the Swedish National Agency for the Management of Pisa 2018 but also recommends in its review report that the Government acts to ensure that not too many students are excluded the next time the Pisa survey is to be conducted. That is why I asked: In what way does the government intend to proceed with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations? I must thank the Minister for Education for the answers so far. Unfortunately, we have reason to return to Sweden's numbering in international knowledge measurements such as Pisa and also Pirl. I look forward to further discussions on how we can improve Swedish school together. But as long as we have a government that does not seek the truth about the lack of knowledge, we will not be able to re-establish the school of knowledge either.
i-00146e7ffaa115ca-137	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the Pisa survey and the other international surveys are important for us to be able to make the right assessments about the permit in Swedish schools. There is also no doubt that the PISA surveys will be carried out in accordance with the regulatory framework established by the OECD or that the other international investigations will comply with the regulatory framework under which they are subject. The government has acted to ensure that the Swedish National Agency for Education will work hard to ensure a high level of participation in Pisa before the next Pisa survey. I assume that the Swedish National Agency for Education will follow that mission in the way that the Swedish National Agency for Education is supposed to. Madam President, I would like I would also like to point out that Christian Carlsson continues to use expressions in the form of I would like to remind Christian Carlsson that there is no justification for such accusations. In the national audit report produced, there is no support for the fact that there has been a numerical or darkening effect. On the contrary, the Swedish National Audit Office has clearly stated before the Education Committee that the Swedish National Audit Office has no reason to see that the errors that have been committed have been committed intentionally. When it comes to errors, the Swedish National Audit Office points mainly to the management that has taken place in the participating schools. That operation is a very long way from the government's being number trixing or dark. I must thank Christian Carlsson for the great interest in the Swedish knowledge results. I would also like to assure Christian Carlsson that when it comes to students in need of support or students who need different efforts, we rely on completely different instruments than the Pisa survey to ensure that they receive the support they need. Thanks for the interpellation, and thanks for the interest in Sweden's knowledge results!
