i-Hvq3udTK9H9ei8fpSvaWqF	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a committee initiative by the Social Security Committee, the SfU25, the extension of the rules on preventive sickness benefit for risk groups. The Coronandem affects us all in different ways. For some of us, the risk is greater, most clearly our elderly but also others who are more likely to suffer a particularly serious disease course if they are infected by covid-19. Since 1 July last year we have temporary rules on compensation for these groups. Originally we agreed on 90 days' compensation, but as we have extended the compensation, until 30 April at the latest. If a week had passed, the compensation would have expired if we had not extended it again, but now we agree that it should be extended, both here in Parliament and between the government and the cooperation parties. In the case of previous extensions of the compensation, there has been an unfortunate glitch. We all agree that there should be no gap again. The Left Party initiative proposed to link the extension to vaccination, which was a reasonable proposal. When Minister of Social Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi visited us in committee almost a month ago, he explained the government's intention to do just that – to extend the compensation linked to vaccination and to ensure that there is no glitch. In this committee initiative, the committee proposes to extend the remuneration of the risk groups until phase 3 of the national covid-19 vaccination plan is completed. Phase 3 vaccinates those aged 60 to 64 years and people with a condition that involves difficulties in following advice on anti-infectious measures, as well as all adults at risk. My own county, Kalmar County, is one of the few regions that we Social Democrats are involved in governing. We run a well-functioning collaboration with the Center Party and the Liberals. Recently, our region as the first region in the country entered phase 3, and just over every fourth adult in our county has now received its first dose. This is very gratifying, and I hope that the other regions will soon follow suit. The supplementary amending budget that we debated and decided on in this House yesterday includes extensions to several of the government's actions in relation to the coronapndemine. A number of the compensations extended are linked to the vaccination. Among other things, the remuneration of the risk groups, which we are debating here today, is extended in such a way that there is no gap. People at risk will be able to return to work safely once vaccinations have been completed. In addition to this, the compensation for the withdrawal is extended so that for economic reasons no one will have to hesitate to stay at home even in case of mild symptoms, in other words to stop the spread of the disease. In addition to the normal compensation for employers, the compensation for sick pay costs is extended. No one should have to feel that you are burdening your employer when staying at home the withdrawal period recommended by the health care service. Society compensates employers for the costs. We are extending the abolition of the requirement for medical certificates during the first 14 days, in order to relieve the burden of health care and reduce the risk of transmission of infection. These measures were extended yesterday in a first step until the last June but are also linked to the vaccination target; if we had not reached our vaccination target by the last June, the compensations will be further extended. Another important measure in our area that is extended is the exception in sickness benefit due to deferred care. Health care is under great strain and must be given priority to saving lives. It is not reasonable for those who wait for care and rehabilitation to lose their financial security because of it. It will take the regions a long time to catch up with the health debt that is growing more and more during the pandemic, and the derogation is now extended until the turn of the year. This has been agreed by the government with C and L in the supplementary amending budget. These are important measures, and there will be no glitch. However, another thing that we who want to avoid glitches should be frustrated about is not included here. I am thinking of the change in the outcome of the examination at day 365 of the sickness allowance that we have discussed in committee. This winter many were horrified by the fate of assistant nurse Christine Uddinge, who volunteered and worked with covid disease. Then, when she was infected herself, she was insured at the trial day 180. Then we were able to agree broadly that a change was needed. We were able to agree on a temporary stop in the trials, and since 15 March we have new rules for the trial at day 180 which allow for derogations from the trial against the rest of the labour market when the possibility of being rehabilitated back to work has continued. Those infected with covid now reach the next time limit in the sickness allowance, day 365. As we changed the trial at day 180 but did not arrive all the way when it came to day 365, the difference between it is now abyssed, and many who could otherwise be rehabilitated back to work will be secured. I am pleased that we have been able to agree on the necessary extensions to, among other things, the risk group compensation but, at the same time, I am frustrated that we have not been able to agree to avoid situations such as the one now coming on day 365.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-24	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. In the area of social security, we can look back on a year that has been very much about protecting those individuals who are most at risk of suffering a particularly serious disease course if they fall ill in covid-19. In the last year, temporary rules on the right to certain sickness benefit were introduced for preventive purposes. These temporary rules have since been extended on a couple of occasions. The current right to compensation for risk groups expires almost every week, on 30 April. The spread of infection is still ongoing and vaccination of persons belonging to risk groups is not completed. Against this background, it is necessary to extend the rules on certain preventive sickness benefit until phase 3 of the national covid-19 vaccination plan is completed. Otherwise, the risk is that this risk group will stand without compensation. However, this extension of the rules may not take place in such a way as to suspend payments to the beneficiaries or restrict entitlement to the sickness benefit in question by providing for a maximum number of days of reimbursement. I and the entire Social Security Committee now assume that the government is implementing the necessary changes to regulations. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Social Security Committee very much for the fact that we have been able to reach agreement on this committee initiative.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-29	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved, for a declaration to the government. This by protecting people at risk, i.e. people at risk of being particularly seriously affected by covid-19 illness, has been a bit of a farce. It is scandalous that it has not been managed more smoothly. During the worst pandemic of our time, being in a risk group and knowing that you can become so seriously ill that you may not even survive if you are infected by covid-19 must be a terrible situation. The choice between risking infection or not going to work and thus being placed in an economically vulnerable situation, as many did at the beginning of the pandemic before this compensation started, is a choice I do not want anyone to face. Early in the pandemic, therefore, we felt from the Swedish Democrats that this group must be protected, and when the Moderates presented an initiative on this in the Social Committee, we were quick to support it. Then there was a lot of discussion about how it should be designed. And it took a long time, until 10 June, before the government announced that they would give people in certain risk groups who had to give up all or part of their work in order to avoid being infected by covid-19 a benefit in the form of preventive sickness benefit. The compensation would be SEK 804 per day and will be provided for a maximum of 90 days. The temporary amendment entered into force on 1 July and applied in the first decision until 30 September. However, people had to wait until long after 1 July before any payment of compensation could take place, and many were put in an extremely difficult financial situation before then. Some even had to sell their possessions to survive. On 24 September, the Government announced that it had decided to extend the right to preventive sickness benefit. Many were then relieved and happy, assuming that payments would roll on. But then the government added a small note that the extension of the payment period, i.e. an extension from 90 days to 180 days, required a further decision from the Riksdag. And weeks later, such a decision had not come into place, which disappointed a great many people. They didn't get their money. The committee reacted to this and acted. They called the Finance Minister to the committee and asked: What is happening? Why don't these people get their money? Then there was speed on the Government Office, and there was an amending budget for an extension. But then there had already been a glitch. The government was clear: No, after the last December there will be no more extension. Then that's enough. Well, then I guess these people are gonna have to change and find some other job. But how? How could people in the midst of a pandemic, which was basically urged to isolate themselves at home, be able to re-school and find another job? It wasn't the ability to work that was wrong. It was about the risk of being infected and seriously ill. However, following further pressure and committee initiatives from the committee, the government changed its mind and decided to extend the compensation again, now until 30 April. There we are today. On the basis of previous bad experiences of the government's unwillingness to address the issue in good time, the committee chose to support an initiative by the Left Party, so that the extension actually takes place again and without any gap. Now the government has again submitted an amending budget to extend this compensation, and that is great. However, I find it regrettable that a further deadline was set – on 30 June – although it is good that the government announces its intention to extend this until the end of the vaccination programme in phase 3 so that everyone at risk is compensated. I think it should run until the vaccination is completed for everyone at risk. Regardless of this, it is of the utmost importance that these allowances now run, so that there is no glitch. I am very pleased that, despite this somewhat varied history, we are now in agreement on this, and I hope that it will work painlessly. People at risk have been exposed to too much economic uncertainty and have been in a very difficult situation. That is why I am pleased that we agree on this, and I hope that it will work out in the best possible way in the future.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-42	Madam President, I would like I'd like to take this opportunity to say that I've had an operation, so I'm having a little more difficulty breathing. That's why I'm very far away from the rest of you. If there's some worried cousin at home watching this, I can say, it's not a dangerous operation. It's just a little harder with breathing, because it's affected by this. Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is compensation for risk groups. This is the result of a committee initiative that I and the Left Party have taken. We wanted the compensation to be extended while vaccination is in progress for these groups. The fact that the compensation comes in place and works is crucial for people. The Coronapendem has influenced us all and set tracks that will remain for a long time in society at large but also with each of us. We haven't been able to meet our loved ones as usual. For over a year older people and people in risk groups have lived more or less isolated. Now the vaccine is here, and we can slowly begin to see the light in the tunnel, life after the pandemic. There will be no paradise. The daily problems and the great sorrows will continue to line our path, and the injustices in society remain. We haven't left them behind. The neoliberal class society has fallen into lightning during the year of the coronapndemin. Sickness can happen to all of us. It's true and important. That is why what we are discussing today, the extension of compensation to risk groups, is crucial. Madam President, I would like Some of us who have worked from home will soon enjoy meeting our fellow workers again. It's almost over. Then we can continue as usual. But for those who kept society on its feet during the pandemic, there has been no way to stay away in security. It is Bengt who drives the bus in the water so that the rest of us can get to work. It's Ayla taking the subway over half the city to pick up the goods at the store, so the rest of us can fill the pantry. It's Christine who's working as a nurse in the care, on iv, so that the rest of us can just get care if we get sick. It's them we should thank. They've paid a lot for our safety. Madam President, I would like Society stops if bus drivers, shop workers and nurses work from home. Class determines who is at risk of infection and who can escape. Of course, working from home can work if you are a commercial in the inner city of Stockholm, but one thing should be clear to us: It doesn't really work as well if you work at the pipe company in Sandviken. All of us here depend on the shelves in the store being filled with goods and that there is someone there who can take care of us if we get sick. How, then, can it be that home - sitting consultants in the inner cities are valued higher than people who have really stepped in? Pr consultants wouldn't survive a second unless other people across the country worked. That's for sure. Neo-liberalism is dead, chanted Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson earlier this spring, but the coronapendem shows the opposite. According to the Minister, unemployment should remain at a high level after the pandemic, and cuts in welfare are expected when the acute crisis phase is over. So ordinary people are supposed to pay the bill. But to ensure that profit flows leak out of welfare is no problem. In a desperate attempt to control the wild beast that has been unleashed, a whole bureaucratic assessment apparatus has emerged. Ultimately, the administration is intertwined with the unwavering system, the basic aim of which is, for example, to guarantee the oligarchies of profit-making free schools a steady flow of citizens' tax revenue or to ensure that insurance is carried out on an ongoing basis in health insurance. Then it is claimed that there is no money. There's always money. Especially to lazy welfare entrepreneurs who make profits every time on citizens' tax money. But when it comes to the replacement systems, which are part of the abandoned payspace, it is shrewd in the coffin. The grass-roots worker of welfare is required to ensure quality but does not get the resources for it to work. In order to ensure value for money, everything is carefully and commercially recorded, but the right of owners to refer to trade secrets and to refuse the principle of public access must not be called into question. Square systems and static standards should determine people's ability to work, and when the starting point is to keep costs down, less room will be made within the framework. Madam President, I would like At best, citizens should pursue their own case of individual rights in the true individualist spirit, but to get up in the ring against a system that is rigged to lose is the few that succeed. Gone is the social contract to invest in general in order to achieve the best results. Instead, citizens themselves should refer to exceptions, diagnoses and special circumstances giving them the right to better education or sickness benefit. That is not how Sweden built away the old class society. That's not how you build trust. The principle of equality has been reduced to the right of everyone to equal treatment or that everyone should have the right to be equally ill. Through valuation exercises at Försäkringskassan, we will not get far when the budget is still fixed. Against this background, it is not surprising that an ever larger group in society lacks confidence in the actions of the authorities. Trust is something you have to win. There is no preaching or commanding. Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that the chaos in the welfare of privatisations is too heavy to deal with in a pandemic. This shows, in particular, the spread of infection within the care of the elderly. But what difference does it make when customers have the great grace to choose? Freedom of choice is your beautiful name. The most important thing is not how it will be, but how it will appear. Let's hear what you're saying. But we're not listening. Madam President, I would like For several periods when decisions on compensation for risk groups have been delayed, people have been severely affected. The government thinks everyone's working from home, doesn't it? Employers who have changed have not known how long it will last, and the people themselves have not been able to feel safe in knowing that you do not have to worry about being exposed to infection even next month. Why should ordinary people always have to wait and take the fall? The Left also sees it as self-evident that those who are entitled to compensation also receive it. We would have liked a wider group to have had access to the compensation that we are deciding today. We want the withdrawal to be permanently removed. You shouldn't have to go sick to work. It does not work to require a change of job and a change of job, no matter what diagnosis you have, in the middle of a pandemic. That's why that part should have been paused. Madam President, I would like We have put forward other proposals for major and important changes to health insurance, which should apply to everyone regardless of diagnosis. We have also on several occasions proposed other important crisis efforts. The largest companies have received substantial support despite the fact that they are handing out bonuses, while the health care staff and elderly care staff are under severe pressure. No other party supported the Left Party in regulating this. Wound patches aren't enough. When the pandemic's over, we'll have to pay back home sitters. Policies must demonstrate the capacity to act for jobs and entrepreneurship. The people who work in the healthcare, services and industry should not have to meet with inaction, poorer welfare and a lack of investment policy. They've done the right thing. Now it's our turn to do the right thing. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-59	Madam President, I would like Come on, guys! Act! Don't react! For some fifteen years I have been training, coaching and matching boys and junior teams in both bandy and football. I have always stressed to my players that we are conducting the matches by acting, not by reacting. It is we who should sit in the driver's seat, not the opponents, and by grabbing the takpin we can better achieve the results we seek. I've thought about this several times during the ongoing pandemic. Why? Because we have a government with a knack to react, not act. This becomes particularly clear in what we are discussing and discussing here and now, namely the preventive sickness benefit to risk groups. On repeated occasions, the Christian Democrats and other parties in the Riksdag have had to push for decisions so that these, our most vulnerable, will not stand without compensation. I support the committee's proposal for a declaration. On the other hand, politics does not feel good because we reduce the conversation to pointing fingers, misunderstanding each other and accusing each other of shortcomings. At the same time, politics must be a friend of order. We must not look between our fingers when there is a slowness that actually puts people in great danger. That is what this is all about. Although the government itself describes that the compensation that we are debating, i.e. preventive sickness benefit for groups at risk, is about protecting those individuals who are most at risk of suffering from a particularly serious disease from infection with the disease, there has nevertheless been a gap in compensation due to the government's inability to decide on the changes in time. It is in every way difficult, at least for me, to enter these pandemic times. We Christian Democrats declared early in the pandemic that the possibility of sickness benefit for the prevention of risk groups should be offered until a vaccine is available and vaccination has been carried out. We have been very critical of the government's handling. We took part in the initiative which led Parliament on 9 December last year to emphasise that the government must have such a forward-looking attitude that there is no interruption in the payment of the benefit between two pay periods. If you want to protect the most vulnerable, it is and remains absolutely elementary that you avoid a gap in the compensation. Unfortunately, the government has not succeeded in this during the pandemic, and for this it should be criticised. Unfortunately, I have also had to say, not only on one but on several occasions, that when the Christian Democrats and other parties have proposed committee initiatives, we have first met with the cold hand to hear later that morning that the government and its support parties reached the same conclusion. Then we have seen how the government on the same day that we are going to handle the initiative presents a proposal and tries to suggest that one acts, does not react. It's not neat, and it doesn't create trust. I support the committee's proposal for a declaration.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-68	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates in this report, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 15. In the wake of covid-19, sick leave has increased markedly, and sick leave has resulted in an exceptional situation requiring exceptional measures. The Moderates have been the driving force behind important measures, such as the abolition of carers' deductions and the extension of preventive sickness benefit for risk groups. It has been necessary to stop the spread of the disease and to protect particularly vulnerable persons. When the exceptional situation is over, temporary measures must be rolled back, and the economy must return to balance. It is necessary for society to be able to stand strong when a new crisis strikes. It is also important to monitor and evaluate how health insurance has been handled during the crisis. The capacity of the Social Insurance Agency and other issues related to the management of benefits during ongoing pandemics, but also after a pandemic, should be evaluated. From the individual's perspective, sick leave leads to poorer private finances, and a long absence from working life often leads to fewer social contacts in everyday life. The exclusion is both economic and social. The effects can also be great in the next generation. Children of parents who are on long-term sick leave tend to be on sick leave themselves to a greater extent than others. For us Moderates, it is obvious that society's efforts should focus on preventing sick leave and helping people back to work. Those who are ill or injured and unable to work must of course be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. However, a person who has or regains his or her capacity for work must always be supported and helped to get back to work. The opportunities and incentives to act to help people return to work must be strengthened for all actors in the health insurance system – the insured, the employer, the doctor and the individual administrator of the Social Insurance Agency. Impaired work capacity due to illness is the basic criterion of health insurance. Diseases are usually defined from a medical perspective, and diagnoses are made based on the prevailing knowledge in healthcare. However, there is a lack of a clear and objective definition of what health really is. Disease often creates a feeling of ill health. At the same time, a perceived illness in itself can create disease. Working conditions can create a feeling of ill health, and a perceived poor health can affect how you experience your working conditions. Similarly, the concept of work capacity is difficult to define objectively. The ability to work depends on the job involved. And the same diagnosis of illness can mean that the work capacity either disappears completely or is not affected at all. How is the work capacity of an official sitting at a desk with a broken leg affected compared to the work capacity of a construction worker? How does changing the diagnosis to a lighter depression affect the work capacity of these two people? The simple but at the same time deeply complex answer is that there are always tasks that are both possible and impossible to perform for the same diagnosis. It is against this background that we need to see questions about the reform of health insurance. Psychiatric diagnoses have been the most common reason for sick leave since 2014. In order to counteract an increase in the number and length of cases of mental illness in psychiatric diagnoses, support for mental illness should be improved, and knowledge of sick leave due to mental illness needs to be increased. As I mentioned earlier, health and work capacity issues are complex and multifaceted. The situation is also complicated in psychiatric diagnosis. After all, it is easier to assess just about how long it takes for a broken leg to heal and how the work capacity is affected by it. The assessment is considerably more difficult for mental illness. This is particularly evident when you weigh in the psychosocial work environment's interaction with mental illness. A person suffering from fatigue syndrome may not be at all sick at home for a long period of time because the workplace itself may be part of the underlying causes of the disease. Many describe a situation where the pressure from the poor psychosocial work environment becomes too great and creates a severe stress reaction. Since mental illness is largely individual, there are a number of different parameters and factors that all contribute to rehabilitation. We Moderates therefore want to consider the need for a new track in the rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses with previous interventions and multimodal teams – this since the time limits in the existing chain are actually better adapted for traditional disease conditions. However, it is important that the starting point should be as short a sick leave as possible and a return to work as soon as possible. It can also be noted in this context that early rehabilitation interventions, before a sick leave occurs, are better able to prevent future sick leave and increase the return to work among already sick leavers. For this reason, the possibility of early rehabilitation interventions should be strengthened. Employers and employees must be encouraged to use preventive sickness benefit to enable the individual to take part in rehabilitation that prevents a possible sickness benefit.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-83	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the motion for a resolution on social security issues. The Swedish Democrats have many proposals and reservations in this report for a more humane health insurance and better social security. We are in favour of all these and several proposals from other parties, but in order not to cause too long voting times in this House, I choose to vote in favour of only reservation 20. Nor will I be able to go through all our proposals in these eight minutes, but I welcome those who are interested in going in and reading our exercise on financial security in the event of illness and disability. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the shortcomings in health insurance, in particular, have long been too great. Many severely ill people with cancer and ME, people with severe mental illness and long-term covid have been denied compensation while the prospects for many of these people to be able to take a job have been virtually non-existent. However, no evil that has nothing good with it. The Corona crisis has helped to expose the decaying card house that health insurance has become. The debate and attention to the shortcomings that have existed has increased, and several proposals for improvements have come or are on the way. In addition to criticism of the lack of health insurance from a political point of view, there are a number of reports and reviews showing serious shortcomings. In the latest report, Försäkringskassan's investigation obligation, it appears that as much as 11 percent of the decisions may be incorrect due to a lack of investigation. That is what we and many insured for a long time suspected and accused – that severely ill people who should be entitled to sickness benefit should be wrongly insured. This needs to be taken very seriously, and I think that the government needs to look at how these people can be compensated in any way in the future in cases where there has clearly been a wrong decision to make sure of seriously ill persons. Madam President, I would like A lot of the problems that have been encountered have to do with the government's governance, especially during Annika Strandhäll's time to reduce sickness benefits. Saving money on welfare and implementing an irresponsible policy in order to show fine figures on the fall in sickness benefits has become the superior to provide people with severe illness with financial security. It is totally unacceptable and something that needs to change. That is why we in the Swedish Democrats put forward a committee initiative a short time ago to delete the wording in the regulation letter that sickness benefit rates should be at a low level and that the objectives should instead be effective rehabilitation efforts. The Left Party made a similar proposal. The committee chose not to support this, but shortly thereafter the government went out with this particular proposal. I may find it somewhat contradictory to vote down a proposal in committee and then shortly thereafter to implement what was proposed. At the same time, of course, I am pleased that the government has taken on board our proposal. I very much hope that these signals will go to the Social Insurance Agency and that this will mean a change in practice. At the same time, we see a need for changes also in legal texts and regulations, which have become too square and not adapted to today's reality, especially now that so many are affected by mental illness – the most common reason for sick leave today is mental illness – and we are still in a difficult pandemic with unclear, sometimes long-term and difficult consequences for people. Madam President, I would like We therefore went early on when the investigation A safer health insurance with people in the centre published its final report by supporting many of the proposals in the investigation, and we put forward several of the proposals of the investigation in our committee motion already last autumn. For example, we and the Left Party in reservation 20 point out that the regulatory framework after day 365 needs to be changed in order to make it easier to make exceptions to testing the whole labour market. There is already the possibility of making some exceptions today, but the regulatory framework is strict and interpreted even stricter. Very few people pierce this little needle's eye. However, there are cases where the person concerned is in rehabilitation and appears to be able to return to his/her employer, and there should be exceptions. These people can, for example, be healthcare professionals who have been there for us when we have been ill, who have been there and have taken care of people who have suffered from covid-19 and have thus become infected and ill. Then they were told that they should re-school in order to be able to take any normal job and change the industry – even though they are still ill and there may still be a chance that they will later become healthy and can return to work as a nurse or assistant. That is why there must be a change of day 365, and I very much hope that more parties will be able to support it. We also propose in reservation 20 that people over 61 years of age only have to be tried against their employer and that there should not be demands for transition so late in working life. After all, it is hopeless to be ill first and then be forced into conversion so close to retirement. This is a particularly important proposal now that the government has also raised the retirement age. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable and rather strange that representatives of the Social Democrats go out and complain in the media that they want to but cannot proceed with, for example, the proposal to change day 365. They blame the fact that there is no support in Parliament. However, when representatives of the Riksdag make a proposal on this very subject and wish to vote on it, as we will do today, then the Social Democrats and the Green Party vote against such an announcement to the government. I know that the Center Party and the Liberals are also putting a stop to this and are not behind it. That is also very regrettable. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, it is good that the government has now moved on to make proposals to change the concept of normal work so that one should instead be tested against concrete specified jobs. It is also a proposal that we have made in our budget and also in committee initiatives, for this to be judged against a situation in the labour market that is only in the imagination and not in reality has put a great many people in very difficult and totally unreasonable situations. Madam President, I would like I think many of us have seen the documentary series that SVT's mission review made about health insurance. In it we follow Marie-Louise-Louise Järlesand, who has a serious disease in the intestines that makes her almost not allowed to keep any nutrition and has collapsed in weight. She was told by Försäkringskassan that she might be able to take a job where she has an office near a toilet so that she can vomit during working hours. Firstly, it is unworthy and inhumane to give such a message. Secondly, where is such a job? I therefore sincerely hope that a change in the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and a change in the regulations can now, once and for all, put an end to this inhumane treatment of severely ill people in Sweden. However, I have some concerns after going through the bill that the change in the specified work will lead people to better understand the rejection but not to fewer unreasonable rejections per se. We will follow up on the fact that the changes actually lead to a more humane and safe health insurance and not just to changes in the wording on paper. At the same time, Madam President, it is incredibly important that those affected by illness and sick leave receive the right support and rehabilitation in order to be able to return to work on the basis of their circumstances and not get caught up in long sick leave. Here we believe in positive incentives that facilitate return to work over threats of out-of-insurance. That is why we have a series of proposals to facilitate this very thing. For example, you should be able to keep your sickness benefit or sickness benefit while trying out low-level wage work or low-level studies to see if it works well without too high a risk. Today, too, there is an excessively rigid system in relation to the level at which people can get sick and at which level people can get back to work, i.e. 25%. This can cause trouble for those who want to try to return to work in small steps, for example after fatigue depression. It is therefore positive that the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats agree that these firm steps must be removed. I hope that, over time, more parties will be able to join such a proposal so that we will have a majority in favour of it. As I have said, there are a number of other proposals concerning health insurance, but I would like to end by saying that the report also deals with the serious problems that are currently facing us in the area of benefit crime and mispayments, as has been the case recently and where several scandals have taken place. The previous delegation against undue payments completed its mapping in 2019 and estimated false payments at 18 billion that year. The problems have not been taken seriously enough, in our view, and the paying authorities have not had enough resources and the right tools to combat this crime against our entire welfare system. Every crown that falls into the wrong hands of individuals who manage to deceive the system or into the hands of organised crime is money that could have gone to people who are ill or disabled, contribute to better pensions or go to financially vulnerable families with children. We therefore believe that the government should urgently produce clear national guidelines to stop subsidy fraud. In addition, stricter procedures are needed to stop undue payments to other countries. The fact that government representatives in Afghanistan, for example, can sit and pick out contributions from Sweden is, of course, hair-traveling and a scandal. We also believe that the penalties for serious benefit offences must be tightened up. In Sweden, we shall have a strong welfare for those who need it and those who are vulnerable. We should not allow welfare to be drained by benefit crime.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-115	Madam President, I would like Feeling involved in society is important for all people. One way to get that feeling is to have a job to go to. This applies to the vast majority, whether we have a disability or not. In some workplaces you get sick, and in other situations we get hurt or get sick by something we do outside of work. Regardless of which, it is important that we have close and accessible care that supports both in the prevention work and when the disease or injury has occurred. For the Center Party it is important that the care takes place close to the individual, and through permanent care contacts there is the opportunity to get support early. Today's rehabilitation coordinators can also make a positive contribution from a health care perspective. Preventive work is important, and it is good that there are regulations and responsibilities for employers today, including with regard to the psychosocial and organisational working environment. However, there is a need to monitor compliance with responsibilities and what support employers may need to live up to them. But it is also important that there is knowledge among both employers and individuals about the possibility of preventive sickness benefit. By using it, more people could seek medical care and treatment before being on sick leave to prevent this from happening. Here, however, a review of the regulatory framework is needed to make it more flexible. Madam President, I would like Another part that needs to be made more flexible is the levels of sick leave. Today, you can only be on sick leave at 25, 50, 75 or 100 percent, and you have to work the corresponding number of hours each day. It is not possible to work 20 or 40% or to be in the workplace two hours on one day and eight hours on the other. However, depending on work and the individual's disease cause, this may be the difference between being able to work little and not being able to work at all. By making it more flexible, we increase the possibility for more people to return to work. The Social Insurance Agency plays a major role in the sick person's ability to return to work. The Social Insurance Agency has a coordination responsibility for the individual to receive support in his or her work rehabilitation. We are well aware that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has for some years been receiving widespread criticism of how they carry out their mission, and this is part of the mission that is not working well today. The Social Insurance Agency also receives criticism that people do not understand their rejection and that they do not investigate the individual cases sufficiently. My experience is that you work to reconcile the different parts, and if any part is missing, the application for sickness benefit, activity benefit or sickness benefit is rejected. Here it needs to be more individual and clear what the reasons for the rejection are. Nevertheless, I interpret the signals from the authority as being well aware of this and that work has been started to address the shortcomings that exist in the administration. It is a matter of changing both the regulations regarding health insurance and the handling of cases by Försäkringskassan. Madam President, I would like There is now a proposal to implement the proposal for specified work that comes from the investigation A safe health insurance with people at its centre. This was something that the Center Party was already pushing through my representative in committee before the end of the year, and I therefore welcome the fact that it is now becoming a reality. I hope that the government will follow this up with a continued review of health insurance in relation to, among other things, the levels of sick leave so that it better supports people in getting healthy and getting back to work. Madam President, I would like There is much to talk about in this area. With regard to the activity compensation, it must be reviewed so that the disabled person has more opportunities to study and try out a job without the risk of being rejected in the next round. This also applies to the possibility of starting a business. How can people go from compensation to self-sufficiency if there is no opportunity to try? Those who have been on sick leave for a long time may need coordinated efforts from different agencies in order to be able to get rehabilitation. The coordination associations play an important role here, but in order for them to continue to develop and become even better, we need to review and clarify their mission and how the state, regions and municipalities can steer and learn from each other. There are many good examples in the country that unfortunately do not have an impact everywhere. Now I have not mentioned in one word the conditions for entrepreneurs in this speech. It is not because they are less important but because I chose to focus this time on other parts of health insurance. Madam President, I would like The Center Party's proposal in this area is therefore to clarify the task of Försäkringskassan, to coordinate work rehabilitation early and to review how employers handle the psychosocial work environment and what support they may need to be offered in that work. They also deal with the proximity to care and the possibility of flexible preventive care and flexible return to work as well as increased opportunities for disabled people to work and study. We also have proposals relating to days of withdrawal for entrepreneurs and the basis on which sickness benefit-based income should be calculated. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation number 23 – I am of course behind all the reservations of the Center Party – about the Social Insurance Fund's early reconciliation meetings and early assessments in the rehabilitation process. For the individual, it is essential that there are contacts between Försäkringskassan, the employer and the sick doctor in order for individuals to remain in contact with and return to the labour market.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-129	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the post, Martina Johansson! In my speech I talked about the proposal from the investigation A safe health insurance with people in the centre– I think it is very important that it goes through. It is about the need for a softer assessment in the regulatory framework after the 365th day to make it easier to make exceptions to the labour market as a whole. We now have a situation where, for example, people with long-term covid, who have been there for us when we have been ill, have themselves been infected and are now at risk of reaching this limit. I have asked our Minister Shekarabi about this several times because the government seems to want to go forward with this. The only thing that ever comes out is that we cannot agree on this with the cooperation parties. Now I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Center Party: Why is nothing happening? Why does this proposal not come forward? How does the Center Party view the proposal in the investigation, which should be necessary now that the situation is becoming acute? Representatives of Försäkringskassan say that many sick people are now at risk of being insured and that we risk seeing a difficult situation. It seems that this proposal, although there is a majority in favour of it in the Riksdag because it is supported by the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, still does not come forward. The fact that this can become a reality now simply depends on the Center Party and the Liberals. So now I'm very curious and want a reply: Why is this taking so long, and why is nothing happening?
i-3WreDEwTs7TyoxhSjbxtrQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! What is going to go forward or not is something that is being discussed in budgetary negotiations, and I cannot tell you exactly what the discussions that are taking place in the budget negotiations are about in this speaker's chair. What is important to me when it comes to health insurance and the regulations is that it is clear to everyone who is on sick leave as regards, that you cannot be on sick leave for many years without clear reconciliation points to see that you get the help you need. When it comes to Corona-related issues and what we are facing today, I know that discussions are always raised on how to deal with the difficulties that arise.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-135	Madam President, I would like The answer didn't make much sense to me. I wish we could get some more information about how the Center Party as a party is looking at actually being able to make some relief in health insurance as far as the deadlines are concerned. Nor do we propose that they be completely removed, but the assessment of the deadlines must be reasonable. Does the Center Party think it is reasonable that a person, such as a nurse who has long-term covid but still has the prospect of being able to return to work after 550 days, should be secured for hitting today 365 and that the needle eye to make exceptions is so narrow? Does the Center Party think it is reasonable, or does the Center Party think that there needs to be some kind of change in the very sharp deadlines that exist today?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-137	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we have a clear regulatory framework, as I said earlier. I do not want to go from this speaker's chair into exactly where those limits should go and how we should face the different types of diseases, but, as I said earlier, I refer to the discussions that are going on. I trust that they will lead to good proposals that are also linked to the Corona-related situation.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-139	Madam President, I would like It's about being on top. But to top the league when it comes to health insurance has in Sweden proved to be something completely different from what you first think of. The alliance has been in place since 2008, when the current system was introduced. They emerged as healers of the new age who, unlike Sweden's collective medical corps, medical expertise and the prevailing research situation through a magic spell, were able to cure as many as 90 000 sick. Simsalabim, they were healthy. According to the new law and the Social Insurance Fund criteria, the rehabilitation chain performed miracles. You can't sit or stand, but what difference does it make when the authorities have blessed you with 100 percent work capacity? Hallelujah, get up and go! Along with S and MP, the Left Party then removed the longer time limit. However, the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats did not give up in the first place but voted to restore the pre-stock as late as 2017. But the S-MP government didn't want to be worse. They started to fix their own miracle cure. Soon they had placed themselves at the peak of the number of insured at day 180, and fewer and fewer were granted sickness and activity benefits. And can you imagine that the record was struck in the last year, in the midst of a burning pandemic! Anyone who believes that the time of the miracles has passed may not have heard of the health insurance in Sweden 2021. Madam President, I would like Now to what is really essential: Did people get healthier? Of course they didn't. Instead, people became sicker by the treatment that the system subjected them to. It is a great shame for a so-called welfare country. Not to be believed is the height of humiliation. That's how you destroy a human being. It's been me, and it could have been you, because the thing is that sickness is something that can happen to all of us. It is not just the Left Party that is critical. Scientists call this a legal scandal. That Sweden does not ensure that people's right to safety in the event of illness works before introducing another rich man's allowance is appalling. Only the Left Party prioritises substantial increases in compensation. For example, we are completely alone in removing the additional tax that sick leave pays. People have not become poor; they have been made poor by political decisions in this House. Madam President, I would like What may weigh most is that no one steps forward and says: We admit that it went wrong, and now we take responsibility for it, because here we just can't have it. At least the Moderates who, despite the fine speech here, hold on to the rock-hard trial at day 180, more days of withdrawal and the reintroduction of the precipice, which would entail additional mass insurance, do so. Imagine that it would take a pandemic for more politicians to begin to understand that illness or disability is not something you choose but something you suffer from! We in the Left Party have been baxing the government and many of the other parties before us for a long time. Our proposals have been voted down so many times, but this year we have pushed through several important changes. It is far too late and far too little, but a few small steps towards a more humane health insurance have been taken. I would like to thank all of you who have been affected themselves. All politicians should do that, because it is to your credit that improvements are being made. You who no longer even have anything to gain for yourself, because you have already been taken away most of it, have shown kindness in the true sense of the word. Parties and rulers are appalled by citizens who have increasingly lost confidence in the system. But losing your appetite and giving up when you're treated like garbage is not something people should be loaded for. On the contrary, it should be applauded. Instead, if they had behaved and kept silent in the congregation, we would have gone nowhere. It's beyond doubt. Madam President, I would like You get the citizens you deserve. Acceptance in all honor, but what is there to understand about the fact that seriously ill people who have worked and paid taxes or people born with a disability should not get what they are entitled to and not be able to live and pay bills like everyone else? I don't understand it then. In Sweden they are afraid to take the debate with their own population on social security systems, because they know that very few buy that, for example, serious cancer sufferers should be denied compensation, so instead they rattle on other issues. They want to get people out of the way by signaling loudly about immigration. No question engages my political colleagues as much as this. With more or less similar proposals, they try to trump each other about who is the most harsh. The frame is already set, and it is tight. And maybe if you can no longer compete for who takes the most against the sick, you will find other groups. But if you seriously think that people are going to go for this blow, that we're going to settle for this, you've deceived yourself. People get it. They'll see what happens. Put down the nonsense and show the same momentum when it comes to health insurance and pensions instead! Give SGI back to those who, due to system errors over the years, have been secured, and give them the financial compensation and redress they deserve and are entitled to! The Left Party has proposed a crisis commission to do just that. Unfortunately, all the other parties voted against. Where's the concern? Where's the community? I can't find any words. I'm ashamed to be a politician. Can't we do better than this? Madam President, I would like When it comes to Försäkringskassan's abilities, even Jesus is in the shelter. They can explain well on an assembly line. Doctor's certificate is not a free note. It cannot stop this insurance machine, as researcher Niklas Altermark writes about in his book The Rejection Machine. The Left Party has not only submitted proposals once, but twice, for an independent screening of the Social Insurance Agency. Unfortunately, we have not got the majority for that. The longer the time passes, the more people will be affected by the system. Nevertheless, the government has not put forward proposals to lighten the next deadline, at day 365, and the proposal that the cashier should have to specify what kind of work a seriously ill person is expected to take is delayed. It's indefensible. This must happen now, because while politicians are bickering, people are dying in the tracks of health insurance. It may sound harsh, but that's actually the way it is. Madam President, I would like My call is: drop the prestige and show that it is possible to solve this! How many more people who have done everything right will we treat so wrong before we do what it takes? The Left Party wants the insurance to be changed fundamentally, the entire health insurance, the occupational injury insurance and the rehabilitation chain. The sharp deadlines need to be removed, and rehabilitation needs to be individualised. The conversion requirements for people approaching retirement are unrealistic. Security needs to cover everyone who works, not just those with permanent employment. Medical certificates shall be valid. A person who is chronically ill or has a disability must be entitled to a lasting and reasonable remuneration. Madam President, I would like Social security contributions have long been around the same level, but payments have been reduced by over 100 billion. It is we wage earners who pay for health insurance with our abandoned pay space. This is our right and no alms. We've earned it. During the same period, the Alliance reduced the tax by well over 100 billion. Those who earned the most got the most. The January parties now continue with the same kind of distribution curve. Only this year will the tax be reduced by 30 billion. The world record in the fastest growing divides is little surprised by Sweden. At least there's number one. Neo-liberalism is dead, says the Minister of Finance and continues to run into the wall with the Center as a navigator and the Liberals, who have now jumped off the road. In the luggage, the Green Party is apparently satisfied with electric car premiums and plastic bag taxes. The money is therefore no longer spent on compensation schemes, but on those who earn the most. Forget about the twats! Here's the big scam. Madam President, I would like After all, I feel hope. There's no longer a contest about who's the best at chasing sick people. Instead, it is now those who defend an unjust health insurance policy that is under pressure. They could have. I call for the Left Party's reservation number 20 to be approved.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-161	Madam President, I would like When we debated health insurance almost exactly a year ago in this House, the pandemic had just beaten its claws in our country. After a year, we can probably still say that we should be grateful that we have a social security and an authority in Försäkringskassan that is largely able to deliver during very difficult times and under severe pressure. We Christian Democrats have a number of reservations in this area, but, in order to save time, I only ask for reservation number 19 on a more flexible health insurance system in which the ability of the insured person to return to work is better taken into account if the fixed steps in the sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance are removed. Madam President, I would like During this parliamentary term, in all the debates on health insurance, I have repeated the message that not everyone can work 100% of a full-time job but that everyone should have the opportunity to work 100% of their ability. If we allow the work capacity, not the incapacity to work, to be the starting point, the need for more flexibility becomes clear. For this reason, we Christian Democrats have been putting forward, year in year out, proposals to remove the fixed steps in sickness benefit, sickness benefit and rehabilitation allowance. They are now 25, 50, 75 and 100 percent. It should simply be possible for a person to increase his or her working time by 10 percent in order to achieve successful rehabilitation. However, this is not possible because the firm steps make it impossible. Today we have a reservation with the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats, so the issue is moving in the right direction. I hope that we will soon have a majority in Parliament to remedy this. This is not a new question. Already 2015 the report presented More security and better insurance proposals that we need more levels than the current benefit levels of 25, 50, 75 and 100 percent. It will then become more flexible and facilitate return to work. It is therefore a mystery that we have not yet managed to take this decision in 2021. As a parish president of the Church of Sweden, I have experienced that an employee could not go up from 25 to 40 per cent, which was what we felt was possible there and then. This meant that, in addition to having to remain at 25 percent before she was able to go up to 50 percent, this employee lost 15 percent of her working time. The system refused her to go up that 15%. Allowing work capacity, not incapacity for work, to be the starting point rhymes well with the work line. It is always better that someone can work a little more than not at all. The different steps, 25, 50, 75 and 100 %, can be said to be part of the work line, and we Christian Democrats believe that by removing the fixed steps, the work line would be encouraged even more. Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will focus on two things: rehabilitation and prevention. When we Christian Democrats discuss and discuss how the social security system can be designed and adjusted, the guiding principle is how best to make use of both human and social resources. It's about that balance. Discussions are now taking place in this House and elsewhere on changes and adjustments to the time limits in health insurance. It is a necessary discussion, but for us Christian Democrats it is not the deadlines we want to question. They are important and will serve as reconciliation points that provide a functioning, ongoing and natural dialogue with Försäkringskassan. It is also a way to ensure that the sick person is able to take part in a process characterised by both activity and early rehabilitation efforts. This is an individualised approach that we think helps more people to return to work so that fewer people get stuck in long and often hopeless sick leave. We were in favour of making a change at day 180 when there were regular reports that people who were on sick leave but who were deemed to have a good chance of returning to work with their former employer before day 365 lost the sickness benefit at day 180. It was often about people who had already started a part - time return to work but were not fully rehabilitated at day 180. This was a huge waste of both individuals' and our shared resources. We made a similar proposal ourselves, so it was no wonder that we supported the government as early as last year when we discussed the Swedish National Audit Office's report The road to work after denied sickness benefit. The report was interesting because it strongly criticised the management of the process. The House has therefore proposed that the rehabilitation process be evaluated to ensure that it is not delayed. We didn't hear about that, I'm afraid. This is true despite the fact that several reports, but also authorities, have warned that rehabilitation work will not start in time. If, as we Christian Democrats, we want to protect the work line on the one hand and the principle that health insurance should be designed in such a way that return to work can take place as quickly as possible, rehabilitation must be an absolute centre of the discussion we have on health insurance. Unwinding reconciliation points is not the solution to weak and inadequate rehabilitation work, although it sometimes sounds so in the political debate. We, my friends, have received enough reports that rehabilitation work will not start on time. Then I mean that it may even feel a little uncomfortable to loosen the reconciliation points. That is not the solution to the fact that we do not address the shortcomings and get the rehabilitation process started in time. For example, we have proposed that the Social Insurance Agency should be allowed to request more established rehabilitation plans from employers in order to ensure that the rehabilitation work is in progress and that it is done quickly. Madam President, I would like The great benefit of avoiding a sick leave that could have been avoided with preventive work is difficult for the individual to quantify in crowns. The insurance company Skandia has been counting social costs for some years, and last year the costs of sick leave amounted to SEK 65 billion. With more preventive work against mental illness, for example, which reduces sick leave by one third, we would free up resources for the equivalent of just over 25 000 nurses. If we are to have social security that is able to deliver in the future, preventive work is crucial. There is therefore a need for policies that contribute to reduced stress and to create good conditions for better public health and create the opportunity for everyone to get their unique life puzzle together. Social security is affected by a wide range of areas. In conclusion, I would like to call for the approval of reservation number 19.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-183	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Christian Democrats and Hans Eklind. Do I understand correctly: Is it the insured who Hans Eklind thinks should take the risk and who should pay for the rehabilitation not to work? Hans Eklind said here that it is dangerous to shake and change the deadlines when rehabilitation does not work. My father has the disease myeloma and will now be cleared by day 365, even though he has a serious, incurable cancer. Is it my father and the sick people who reach day 365 who are going to take the fall because rehabilitation is not working, or are the Christian Democrats prepared to go forward with a relief at day 365 so that more people can get what they are entitled to? I assume that the Christian Democrats will close down the policy of tax benches and invest in work environment work, welfare and other things that can make the work work work work better and, at the same time, support the steering of Försäkringskassan's obligation to coordinate. Is it the insured who, until the Christian Democrats and other parties have changed their politics, are going to take the blow through the deadline, or how are we going to understand what Hans Eklind said?
i-AAZjXbZWZ5MsXvG62TrxYn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the question! At best, I hope that I was only unclear and that is why the kind of interpretation that the Member of Parliament expressed as a basis for his question was possible at all. For I maintained for quite some time the need for the rehabilitation process to start on time. That was almost central to my speech. It was also the case that I repeatedly noted that rehabilitation is being neglected. It is delayed and not started in time. I believe that the solution to this problem is not to loosen the reconciliation points in health insurance. It is difficult to see that, for some strange reason, the rehabilitation process would be even better if we loosened these points. Maybe it should be better now. That is our main criticism. We have been and we agree to discuss how the reconciliation points should be formulated and what should apply. We've even been on Day 180. As Ida Gabrielsson knows, we have also put forward proposals on covid-19 and so on, so we see that we need to have a lively discussion on this all the time. Ida Gabrielsson must have very deliberately misunderstood me, or I am not communicating well. My main point was that rehabilitation must be improved and that it must be put in time so that it can be completed. Nor is it the case that the number of insured persons has been reduced by the policy pursued. No matter how much Ida Gabrielsson says about neoliberalism and so on, it is under this government that the insurance policies have skyrocketed, with the reconciliation points that we have today, because rehabilitation is not set in motion in time and does not work.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-191	Madam President, I would like The reconciliation points were introduced by the Alliance in 2008, and the increase has taken place at precisely these reconciliation points. Previously, Hans Eklind and his alliance contributed to securing about 100,000 people at another time limit: the precipice. Hans Eklind is right that it is as bad no matter who sits as the captain. But what Hans Eklind doesn't answer is when rehabilitation doesn't work. There are also cases where rehabilitation, however good it works, will not be completed in time. There are those who get sick twice during the same period and end up at day 365, and there are those who have long treatments where it takes time for healthcare to find the right method, which means that they arrive at day 365. The Left Party proposes to have a rehabilitation obligation. We are not contributing to any tax cuts. On the contrary, we invest and spend every penny on this particular type of bet. The Left Party also proposes that the Social Insurance Agency should be subject to a coordination obligation, not just a mission, as it stands today. There, although I am surprised, we seem to agree. The question is whether Hans Eklind and the Christian Democrats are prepared to pamper resources when it comes to it. As long as resources are not available and rehabilitation does not work, are they insured – these people, the sick, the insured – who should then take the risk, when they may not have received rehabilitation and they are insured by day 365? Or should we impose a rehabilitation obligation on authorities, health care and others while ensuring that insured persons receive what they are entitled to? That's my question.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-195	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think that, if the political demagoguery used by the honourable Member is ignored, Ida Gabrielsson knows the answer to the question. We have even put forward a committee initiative in which we clearly say that if you do not get the rehabilitation you need, we cannot have a situation where you are insured. As late as Monday I heard that the university hospital in my own county of Örebro said that they started to get started with the long-term covids. It is very different how to get started with this, but on Monday the USÖ got started. That's good, but it's taken a very long time. The absolutely only thing that Ida Gabrielsson will take on board is what I said in my speech: firstly, we need to improve prevention. Secondly, social security should go in and support rehabilitation measures for those who suffer from a reduction in their working capacity. This should be done quickly, and it should be a clear process. That is why I think that reconciliation points in social security are good. This is a way for the insured person to make an effort to get the necessary efforts to return to the labour market. I do not think there is anyone who wants to be long-term ill. But then we must also implement these measures. Thirdly, if a person is not offered these measures, the Christian Democrats' reasoning, just as it was with long-term illness in covid-19, is that we must then have valves. They exist, and these valves are now to be looked at. If a person has not received the necessary assistance – if that process has not been started in time – responsibility cannot be imposed on the individual, but we must have effective cooperation between the individual, the employer, the Social Insurance Agency and, of course, health care. Together, I think we can find a better functioning rehabilitation process because it does not work today.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-200	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that the Liberals naturally support all their requests and reservations in this report, but in order to gain time, we are only calling for reservation 26 under paragraph 10. Madam President, I would like Everyone should be able to feel confident that the common is there in the event of long-term or short-term illness. It's an essential element of our well-being. I believe that everyone in this House agrees on that. It is perhaps one of the most important safety nets – one of the ultimate safety nets – that we actually have in our society. That's why the whole health insurance system really exists – to make sure that people have a livelihood if they get sick. Having said that, we Liberals believe that health insurance must be tailored to the needs of the individual – personalised care, rehabilitation, support and financial compensation. It should be actively adapted to the particular situation of the sick person so that more people will return to work as quickly as possible and so that more people, Madam President, will return to their lives as quickly as possible. Now the current pandemic has caused quite a lot for all of us. Among other things, it has brought about a wide range of rapid changes in support schemes and the health insurance system. That's right and right. But what this and everything else will mean for the whole and in the longer term we do not know anything about today. Let's get back to that. Madam President, I would like All that has now been said places great demands on us politicians as responsible. Now there are minor changes, and there is also a bill on the Riksdag table. It is a good and welcome change that we Liberals have been involved in developing and in some cases being a driving force for developing. But we have also been sensitive to others. But that's not enough. Concerns, lack of trust, lack of governance and shortcomings in the rehabilitation chain are greater than that. Continuous and thought-out reform efforts are needed to enable the social security system to deliver security and responsiveness to the individual at any time, while at the same time making sure that taxpayers' money is used legally and effectively in line with the working line that has served Sweden well. Under Försäkringskassan – under the umbrella of the agency – there is a great deal for each of us very important insurance policies and contributions that affect virtually every part of our lives. It is about the sickness allowance and its assessment, which most of us have debated today. However, these are also housing allowances, family allowances, car subsidy, assistance allowance, child benefit, start-up allowance, parental allowance and many more – up to 50 different benefits and insurance policies. In view of this, we liberals believe that the size and working methods of the various trades The Social Insurance Fund must be subject to greater reform work, which certainly needs to be carried out during most of the 2020s. Today's insurance fund wrestles repeatedly with low public confidence. It has even been highlighted by the Social Insurance Agency itself and its Director-General in debate articles, in discussions in committee and in the media. This, of course, is not sustainable. On the contrary, it is dangerous in the long term for confidence and trust in our common systems to crack. Madam President, I would like The administrative fatigue, which is described by doctors and other healthcare professionals, including sick leavers, assistance recipients and beneficiaries, after contact with the Social Insurance Agency, must be taken very seriously. Therefore, the Liberals want the Authority to be given a completely new portal mission in its directive – to support and pilot. Försäkringskassan should be a partner for the sick at work to come back and for health care in general. The Social Insurance Agency should be a support and a co-player to enable them to live their lives like everyone else. One of the cornerstones of the work of an insurance fund that supports and pilots must be to expand what is called Finsam and which involves practical and financial cooperation between Försäkringskassan and health care. This is primarily intended for people to receive support, care and rehabilitation that gives them the greatest opportunity to move forward in their lives, to come back from illness and to return to work and livelihood. Madam President, I would like One of the shortcomings that is becoming more and more apparent is that social security systems differ widely for all those who run businesses in some form. It should be safe to start and run a business. That is why, in principle, it needs to be the same security system for entrepreneurs and employees. This is something that needs to happen quite quickly. The system of sickness benefit-based income should be amended and designed so that it also works for entrepreneurs who fall ill. Weaknesses in the social security system for entrepreneurs who combine shorter employments with their own business activities and jump back and forth – so-called "combinants" that are common, for example, in cultural life, small business sectors, consulting industries and so on – must be eliminated. It must be natural to feel secure and to feel that welfare systems are there, no matter how you choose to organise your working life. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to say something more about the Liberals' reservation 26, which I support. As I described at the outset, it is the Liberals' firm view that sick leave should receive a safe, understandable and fair assessment and the right care and rehabilitation efforts through collective sick leave teams. The Social Insurance Agency's coordination mission therefore needs to be refined, clarified and strengthened, not least in collaboration with health care, employers and the Public Employment Service. The government therefore needs to set up an investigation into a reformed working method for Försäkringskassan, which also introduces a new portal clause for preventive measures and puts collaboration at the centre. The Social Insurance Agency must also be able to co-finance treatments and rehabilitation measures that can lower the sickness rate, especially for insured persons who otherwise risk long-term sick leave, instead of out-of-insurance and the balling with people between the authorities that are going on today. This, Madam President, would free up resources for care and safeguard the work line and lead to faster care and return to work and self-support for the insured. I'm in favour of reservation 26.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-213	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Eliasson. I have a question that looks a little like the one I had before. After all, we have a proposal in this report, and a reservation, that we think that the government should proceed with the proposal contained in the inquiry into safer health insurance with people at the centre – to make some relief in the rules of day 365. This applies not least because we see that there are many people who are now long-term ill in covid-19 and who are at risk of bumping into that border and being secured. This also applies in view of what the honourable Member said in the speech that it is important to change the way of working at Försäkringskassan – that one should support and pilot and that one should protect rehabilitation. That sounds great, and I agree with those ambitions. But this can be about people who are in rehabilitation. Rehabilitation may have started but not been completed, and there is a risk of destroying it by having too rigid and rigorous assessments. Then, of course, we should have reconciliations at the time limits, but the time limits risk doing more harm than good. They risk interrupting important rehabilitation. How do the Liberals and Mr Eliasson view this, and why is this proposal taking so long? The government wants to go forward with this but apparently cannot do so because it is impossible to reach an agreement between the parties that cooperates with the current budget. So can we be told how the Liberals view this problem and whether there is a way forward?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-217	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Julia Kronlid! This report contains 34 reservations, I believe, and far more proposals than that, if one also counts all the individual motions for motion and other proposals which the eight different parties have not supported. Of course, among them are a wide range of proposals which each of us thinks are either good or less good, and so they are dealt with as they are. The very question of the fixed deadlines is incredibly important, because the application by the Social Insurance Agency in particular – that is what I tried to be clear about in my speech – has, of course, slipped away something so violent. It has gone from a reconciliation point, as Julia Kronlid herself describes that it should be, to having become an out-of-insurance point. It has become a way of possibly following the mission given by the government, i.e. reducing the number of sick leave. It is not really up to Försäkringskassan to do so, but it is up to other bodies around the sick person to make sure that the periods of sick leave are shorter and in some cases absent. It is about prevention and so on. Now budgetary negotiations are under way, as my colleague from the Center Party said. This is one of the questions on the table, as far as I know-- I'm not sitting in that room. However, this is an important issue, and our ambition is quite clear: we are going back to an application by Försäkringskassan where these are reconciliation points. They are so important for the individual sick leave, for the care and for all other bodies around the sick leave. It's about getting on with the process.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-221	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that this has evolved from being a rehabilitation chain to becoming an insurance chain. The time limits are used far too much to achieve the government's goal of bringing down sickness benefits, so it is well to see some kind of light in the tunnel. Maybe it's about to change. I'll ask the question again. Are the Liberals prepared to work in these negotiations to ensure that there are indeed reconciliation points – and that, with that, we support, not spoil, people when they are in a rehabilitation process? Today we have a different situation in health insurance; not only are there simple assessments of perhaps purely physical ailments, but the most common reason for sick leave is mental illness. We also have this long-term covid thing, where we lack a great deal of knowledge and would have to give those people the time they need to be rehabilitated. So do the Liberals have an interest in actually working for us to have a more appropriate rehabilitation chain and that it should not continue to be an insurance chain that should only meet the government's previous goal of bringing down sickness benefits? Then I would just like to say that it is very good that we now have this proposal for specified work on the table. I hope that the ambition of the amendment of the law also on the part of the Liberals is that we actually get more humane assessments in health insurance and that we will see a change in the very inhumane assessments that have been.
i-BY5udDQseU7FiiUN2pJqFP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for the question, Julia Kronlid! With regard to the last part of Julia Kronlid's question, that is, the part relating to the proposal that is now on the table, we are, I understand, in full agreement. With regard to the second part, the deadlines, it is just as I said in my speech: what is needed is an ongoing and well thought-out reform effort to actually look at the whole and ensure that the insurance system – the social security system and the health insurance system – delivers at every moment the security to and has the sensitivity to the citizens that can actually be demanded for the individual's return to work. This is incredibly important. In this, the 365-day limit is an important component, but far more components are needed to get to this. As I see it, it is above all the application of the Authority that is actually the big problem today, and I expect both our budget negotiators and the government to actually come back with proposals that support the individual in their rehabilitation chain. Having said that, I still stand by the fact that the rehabilitation chain is basically good. There is a need for fixed reconciliation points for all the bodies involved, but it also needs – I want to be very clear about this – an insight into the fact that Försäkringskassan's unique and first mission is to support and pilot people through sick leave back to a healthy life. It's the main effort, and the Social Insurance Agency can't do that on its own. There's more to it.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-228	Madam President, I would like In today's second debate, we will discuss the social security movements that have taken place during the general period of exercise. I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal and, therefore, rejection of the motions, in favour of the ongoing work of the government. Just over a year ago, when I last debated in this House, I was still hairless after my own cancer treatment. Disease and accident can happen to any of us, which is something that more and more people have certainly realised in the terrible pandemic that we are now fighting through together. Our general social insurance is a central part of the Swedish welfare model and has for a long time contributed to creating security and counteracting financial vulnerability. During the pandemic, the need for strong security systems has been clarified and several measures have been taken. The Karen deduction was abolished by the introduction of a new remuneration. Another new compensation introduced is the compensation for those at risk who are at risk of serious illness if they fall ill in covid. Employers have been compensated for the cost of sick pay, and the requirement for a medical certificate has been postponed in order to relieve the burden of care and reduce the spread of infection. An important exception has been introduced in health insurance in the case of deferred care and rehabilitation so that individuals do not lose their financial security due to the heavy burden of care. Madam President, I would like When I stood here just over a year ago, I stayed for a long time at the sickness benefit trial at day 180 and how unreasonable it was to be insured when you have the opportunity to return to work if you get your care and rehabilitation. It is with great pleasure that I note that since then we have had a change and that we have taken a first step on the basis of the proposals from the investigation A safe health insurance with people at its centre. It is sad that it would take a pandemic for more people to realise that a change was needed, but nevertheless I am glad that more people see the problems and that we can solve them together. Since 15 March, new rules on exceptions to the examination of normal work at day 180 have been in force, as proposed by the investigation. More people are now given the opportunity to complete their rehabilitation and go back to work instead of being sent to Arbetsförmedlingen as a sick person. I am also pleased that the government has now taken a second step on the basis of the investigation's proposal and that a change in the concept of normal work is being sent to a specified occupational group. This is the investigation's proposed answer to the question many have asked: What kind of work does Försäkringskassan think I could do if I am ill? There's an end to the trial of finding a job. Yes, it will take time to implement the change, but it must be allowed to do so. The rules are changed so that the ability to work is tested against the specified occupational group, and the quality of the basis with occupational groups is therefore crucial for this to work. In accordance with the report's proposal, the data must be updated jointly between Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and the social partners. In the situation that we are in, it is not possible to demand that the Public Employment Service should do it more quickly; it cannot be done. These are important improvements in health insurance and good steps forward, but we have a long way to go. An important step that we had hoped to take but where we did not reach all the way forward is the impact change of the trial at day 365 that the investigation proposes. It is, in itself, a continuing sharp test, but it is still more reasonable than the present one. Madam President, I would like It was pure crass that enabled the change at day 180 that long-term covid disease was carried out and that the absurdity became apparent. We saw it coming then, and we see how it comes in the same way now that long - term covid disease will be tested against the even sharper test at day 365. In today's last debate, a number of people resented the gap that had arisen in the extension of the remuneration of the risk groups and how unfair it is. They're right. It's not fair. Here's another big glitch. Everyone who said they see the need has to stand up for it so that we can solve this before lots of people with long-term covid, who would actually have the opportunity to be rehabilitated back to their work, are thrown out of health insurance. Madam President, I would like Let me make it clear that we Social Democrats see injustice as equal regardless of diagnosis, and the solution must continue to focus on harnessing work capacity. But if it's covid that opens up for more people to see the absurdities of today's regulations, I shouldn't be late to point them out. We need to figure this out now. I put my hope in the government's cooperation parties to see the seriousness. As I said here before, we still have a long way to go. The investigation A safe health insurance with people in the center has given us several steps to take. Here we have suggestions on how to provide better security for all those who have fixed-term contracts. This is a prerequisite for maintaining the social contract now that the labour market has developed as it has. Here are suggestions on how we can change the test for those who are approaching retirement in order to avoid those who have worked a full career and who are not rarely forced to take early retirement, being insured during their final years before retirement and on how we can instead use their skills according to what work capacity they have left. Here are proposals to protect rehabilitation measures from health insurance deadlines and to increase the possibility of part-time sick leave as part of rehabilitation. These are steps we should take. Would I like to do more? Absolutely, but these are changes that we in this House should be able to agree on in order, within the framework of the current system, to file down some of the sharpest edges and solve what everyone should see are unreasonable situations. Now I have stayed for a long time at sickness benefit, but our area – social security – is much bigger than that. Unfortunately, it has several parts that do not deliver the security that the Swedish people deserve. The sickness and activity allowance must be mentioned. The sharp concept of duration, combined with the excessive labour market concept, makes it almost impossible for the Social Insurance Agency to grant compensation. It cannot be reasonable for long-term ill and disabled people to get stuck in sickness benefit with constant concern about losing their compensation, with eternal trials and new medical certificates. This is unworthy and in itself a stress factor that really does not help to move forward in life. Nor can it be reasonable that sickness and activity benefits do not allow for either leisure time or study. By summer we will have suggestions on how to design improvements in sickness and activity benefits. I hope that together we will then be able to give long-term ill and disabled people a more reasonable chance of financial security. Madam President, I would like There is so much more I would like to talk about, not least with regard to the Social Insurance Agency and the governance, which has been mentioned here before. There is so much that is done and more that needs to be done, but I'm staying here for this time and taking it another day.
i-B58ZQqPYFi5a93HWGLNovV	I would like to welcome the ministers. The questions are answered by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, Minister Åsa Lindhagen and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-259	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. In 2016, we stated in this House that Bromma airport will remain in place until 2038. Nevertheless, the government chooses to go out yesterday and propose closure. The Minister for Infrastructure explains this by saying that the situation is different now and refers to the pandemic. The Minister therefore takes it seriously that Parliament's decision is no longer valid because of the pandemic and therefore ignores decisions made democratically. The government has 32.67% of the votes but acts as if it had its own majority. My question is therefore why Tomas Eneroth and the government choose to ignore decisions taken in this House.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. We are definitely not ignoring Parliament's decision. That would not happen, especially not by me, who has spent a very long time in this House. On the other hand, there is an announcement from 2016 that originated from a time when we had crowded the air and a completely different discussion about the capacity of the Swedish airport structure. Since then, a lot has happened. During the year that has passed, the situation has even been that in principle not a single flight has been at Bromma and sometimes not at Arlanda. All over the world, we have a plane crisis. Then it is clear that we need to look into this and see what it means. When Swedavia, who is responsible for Bromma, says that there are no market conditions to run Bromma further, the government will set up an investigation. It should be ready by August, and only after that will we take a stand. Of course I will listen to all parties in Parliament. It is incredibly important in this matter.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-266	Madam President, I would like What we have heard from the discussion about the investigation is about how to close Bromma – not if you are to close Bromma. In particular, the government is using the excuse that it will see a decrease in business travel as a motive for Bromma not being needed. We can see that business travel is decreasing because people choose digital meetings instead. This will probably also apply to trains. Then my question is: when will the investigation and decision to close the unprofitable high-speed roads? The train ride between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö is also expected to decrease.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-269	Madam President, I would like I hear representatives of the business community say on a daily basis: we will greatly reduce the number of day trips down to Brussels, Frankfurt or Munich because we can now use digital meetings. There is much evidence that business aviation will decline. This in itself speaks well for the reason that there is reason to listen to Swedavia's call to see if you can secure the capacity at Arlanda to collect domestic flights with all the benefits it actually brings. But of course the question will be investigated.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-273	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth. Four-child mother murdered in front of her children, a 45-year-old woman murdered at the railway station and a 40-year-old woman murdered in the open street – everyone in the public room in the last month. Women's shelters, relatives and surroundings are alerting. Reports are replacing each other. And our feminist government is moving slowly. The government has recently made proposals to prevent violence in close relationships. That's a disappointment, I'd say. The government is taking ant steps when we need to see elephant life on this extremely important issue. We need a lot, not least a national collaboration and strategy. We need to raise the minimum level in all instances. This is to refrain from acting and intervene because it is inconvenient must stop. For what is more devastating to the victim who finally asks for help than to meet with ignorance and incomprehension and people looking away? When will we see the elephant's life and the power of action from the government on this important issue?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-278	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the commitment! Since 2016, we have had a huge focus on, not least, crime, persecution and, not least, rape of women, in this case by providing the police with resources. I think it is now 325 investigators who are specially dedicated to working on this type of crime. We have introduced a new law, a law of consent, which represents a completely different position for victims. During the pandemic, we have added additional resources to the women's shelters – to their very important work to protect women. Basically, it is about what we must do jointly in society to stop these small men who use violence to oppress and exploit women. That is unacceptable. We will jointly do what we can to stop this violence.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-281	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. But we will have a national collaboration that works structured with preventive work but which also works to increase competence and support for the country's organisations and municipalities. There is simply a need for a clear red thread for vulnerable people to grasp as pilots all the way to the finish. Then it's not good enough with pitiful steps. I must say that the government has been slow in its ability to move on this issue for eight years. If there are no ideas, we and several others here have a series of proposals.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-283	Madam President, I would like There has never been so much happening in this area as under these two governments, which have been led by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Märta Stenevi, as Minister for Gender Equality, has now also invited wide-ranging discussions to make the right efforts. But it is clear that it is a challenge when municipalities have municipal executives who want to divide the important activities of women's shelters and share housing and other activities. It is an unfortunate division because it contributes to a reduction in the protection of women who are persecuted.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-285	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-286	This is the river valley, i.e. the waste of Old Norse that we have left in Sweden. I have previously asked the Government a question about recognising the river valley as a minority language. The River valley language community has worked for 15 – 20 years on this. The Council of Europe has also supported the idea that Sweden should conduct an independent investigation into the river valley in order to determine whether it is a language or not and whether it should be protected. This is a language minority that is about to die out. Sweden should take its responsibility and protect this waste of the Old Norse language. I wonder why the Minister does not want an independent inquiry into this issue, as proposed by the Council of Europe.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-289	I would remind the honourable Member that the language of this House is Swedish.
i-f5ZoqLHsg8vaQ5pAeaoXG	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Peter Helander! I have previously received an interpellation about the status of the river valley, and I say the same thing now as I said then: I think it is positive with the interest that exists to both preserve and develop the river valley. I know that there is a strong commitment, not least within Älvdalen municipality. As responsible Minister for Language Affairs, I am also responsible for dialect policy, and here the Institute for Languages and People's Memories is also making efforts. Having said that, the government has judged that the river valley is a so-called popular destination, a dialect. We are aware that the Council of Europe has made its assessment, but it is based on knowledge that we also had in the past when we made the assessment. It is also based on previous minority language investigation. This is, of course, an issue I am following, but I do not see that it is a priority to launch investigations into it at present.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-293	Madam President, I would like Then maybe we can have a debate about whether it was Swedish I spoke or not, because the government says that this is a dialect of Swedish and not any other language. In the future, I'm going to speak fairy-dalke here, because the government thinks it's a dialect. Dialect, let's talk. In the Minister's answer to my question, she refers to previous investigations and so on. I have also had contact with many within academia, among others, who have different opinions. It would be much needed if we could start an investigation.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-295	Madam President, I would like This is the case: In research, there are different views on whether the river valley should be classified as a popular destination, dialect or minority language. It should also be remembered that there are other dialects and popular goals that are also quite different from Swedish and would be difficult for us sitting in this House to understand if a Member used them. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the interest is very positive. Our dialects are well worth preserving and also encouraging the use of.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-297	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to top the last issue, but almost 20 years ago the US war began in Afghanistan. Sweden then joined the NATO operation ISAF and subsequently the subsequent RSM operation. In recent years, the international military has been the ones who have reaped the most civilian victims, especially since Trump changed policies and introduced increased drone attacks that have hit civilians hard. President Joe has now decided that the United States will leave the country before September 11, a date that is recognized. Now the civilian efforts of the outside world for Afghanistan need to be stepped up. I wonder when the Swedish military will leave Afghanistan and whether it was the Swedish government or Joe Biden who decided that Sweden will leave Afghanistan.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-300	Madam President, I would like I thank Håkan Svenneling for the question. As I said, the United States has announced a military withdrawal from Afghanistan. This means that NATO's operation RSM, in which Sweden participates, will also leave Afghanistan before the scheduled date. NATO has acted and is still acting in accordance with the motto – now there will be another language: In together, adjust toether, out together. We are engaged in a close dialogue with the US, NATO and partner countries on how the reduction is to take place in an orderly manner. All parties need to step up their efforts to reach a political solution and agree on a ceasefire. We welcome initiatives that can move the peace process forward. The UN has an important role to play in promoting such a political solution.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-303	Madam President, I would like Both the Soviet Union and the United States have learned that Afghanistan cannot be won by military action. The long war in Afghanistan has created many dead and great human suffering, suffering that shows that military action is not a response to all our problems. Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs satisfied with the Swedish effort and its results, and does the Minister for Foreign Affairs intend to make a White Paper like that decided by the Social Democratic Party Congress?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-305	Madam President, I would like I think it has been very important that Sweden has participated in the RSM, not least because we have seen that, while we have been there, there have been no acts of terrorism from Afghanistan against the countries of the Nordic countries, in the EU or elsewhere. However, after visiting Central Asia all over last week, I note that this will have huge consequences. There is great concern about the negative effects of this withdrawal.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-307	Madam President, I would like The President began me in temptation to go all into dialect, but we will try to stick to Swedish. Men's violence against women has, unfortunately, once again become the focus of the tragedy that five women in the last three weeks have been murdered by men with whom they have a relationship. The fact that several party leaders and political representatives are paying attention to this is, of course, a good thing. That the Minister for Gender Equality has announced that she will invite party leaders to joint talks is also good. But what is now needed is concrete action. Let me remind you that, as recently as a year ago, both the S and the MPs in this House voted down proposals to tighten up the penalties for gross discrimination against women. The other day, the Minister for Gender Equality announced that it wanted to increase the minimum penalty for severe female poverty from nine months to two years. But yesterday, just a few days later, the same minister, this time with the Minister of Justice, announced that the sentence should be raised to one year. Then my question to Minister Eneroth is: Why this hating? What's happened these days?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-311	Madam President, I would like What has happened during these days is, above all, that a great many throughout society have woken up and been able to see and engage in the issue of men's violence against women. I welcome that. It has been far too quiet for a very long time, while not least since 2016 the government has been systematically working on changing legislation, introducing consent legislation, providing resources to women's shelters and ensuring that the police receive more resources than before to investigate crimes against women. This is a systematic work that is now under way. Of course, the Minister of Justice, together with the members of the Committee on Justice, will have to discuss exactly what penalties are to be imposed. I think that the penalties we are now seeing are probably so important to give a clear signal from society, as well as the preventive efforts that need to be made to ensure that men – all men – understand that equal value and respect for all people must apply.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Eneroth. The government stands here and is rumbling up a lot of things that the government has done. Apparently it's not enough. The government has had seven years to get even better tools here, but that hasn't happened. During the same time the risk of sexual offences has tripled, according to Brå's Security Survey. What if the government did a little more self-examination? Does the Minister really think that the government has done enough on this issue when we see so many crimes?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-316	Madam President, I would like How simple life would be if we could change attitudes in society and men's attitudes towards women through legislation alone! It's not that simple. What does the distribution of porn on the Internet mean? What does a pandemic mean for women trapped in conditions where men control them more and more easily? What does the norm formation and sexualization we see in the media mean? Here we all have a responsibility, not least those of us who are men, not to leave this to a discussion that is solely about the responsibility of women or, for that matter, the responsibility of the law.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-319	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. The issue concerns developments in Turkey, where the government of the country acts as a full-fledged dictatorship. Massive abuse is committed, mass arrests are made, newspapers are closed and political opponents, human rights activists and even party leaders are imprisoned. The European Union has been busy dealing with the conflict that has affected Cyprus and gas drilling in the Mediterranean. Unfortunately, the tone of these violations of human rights is not as high and clear. In a few days' time, the trial of Selahattin Demirtaş, party leader of the Procurdian party HDP, will begin. He has been in prison for four and a half years, and he is being called for a monstrous long prison sentence. What does the government do to change up now? Should not sanctions be imposed on Turkey as a result of these massive abuses?
i-3R4JEz7p27r4M9MsWYUUMg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Malm, for the question. The developments in Turkey are very worrying. We have also debated this in this House several times. There is a great reason to be very hard on Turkey when it comes to the development of democracy and human rights and, not least, the imprisonments that have been made by politicians, such as the HDP party from which Selahattin Demirtaş comes. Also from CHP, many have been imprisoned. We have pointed this out both from Sweden, from me personally and from the European Union. In another direction, a little progress has been made. This concerns respect for the law of the sea and the drilling that previously took place completely illegally off the coast of Cyprus. Then you had sanctions that you are now looking at.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is very important that Turkey now wants to improve relations with the European Union to put additional pressure on it to ensure, not least, the release of political prisoners. We see greater clarity from the new American President Joe Biden, who is expected to recognize the Armenian genocide the day after tomorrow. This is also something that the Swedish Government should do because the Riksdag did so already in 2010.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-329	Madam President, I would like What has happened in Turkey, which is also deeply regrettable, is that the Istanbul Convention has been abandoned – I would like to mention it, however, because during Question Time we have discussed men's violence against women – and the EU and Sweden have also reacted very strongly to that. The question of whether to continue to have transparency for possible contacts between the EU and Turkey and to continue with sanctions will continue to be discussed.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-332	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. It's about the message we got yesterday about Bromma Airport. It does not come as a flash from the clear sky that there are problems with Bromma airport. Already last autumn, Swedavia came with her report, which shows that there are significant problems. In an extra budget, we added over 3 billion to Swedavia to meet the economic challenges of the pandemic. But the problems for Swedavia and Bromma airport appeared earlier. Already in 2018, we could see a declining number of passengers. I am not so surprised by this. However, as a stockholmer I am a little worried, not least when it comes to Arlanda and the future capacity. How does the government intend to meet the capacity increase that will be needed at Arlanda in the event of a closure in Bromma?
i-6Q6FKMKp5xDZR1XvqTThZE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for the question. That is quite right – this should be possible to implement also the capacity at Arlanda must be secured. I think this is important for those who today otherwise traditionally come flying to Bromma from Gotland or from northern Sweden – or from Växjö where I come from. It is an important part of securing capacity so that domestic aviation can gather there. It's probably also so important for Arlanda. Swedavia has written very clearly in her report that if domestic aviation and the foundation at Arlanda are secured, it also means better conditions for international relations, not least in competition with other international airports. Sweden is a small, export-dependent industrial country. We are also dependent on good connections around the world, while – and this is obvious in this context – we need to ensure that aviation also switch with biofuels and electric flights. There are good hopes ahead.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-338	Madam President, I would like From a growth perspective and a national growth perspective, I think it is also important that we maintain the number of passengers at Arlanda. It's incredibly important with that part. Then we also see a climate-smart development of aviation, not least electric aircraft, which we will certainly see flying between the country's various airports in just a few years' time. We need to have the capacity to receive the electric flight also in the Stockholm region.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-340	Madam President, I would like I fully share that view. There is an exciting development in ensuring that aviation is sustainable. Not least the aviation actors themselves and the aviation industry are now fully working to meet a development where we consumers and companies are demanding that travel in the future should have a very small climate footprint. We will achieve the goals of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. The flight is needed, but then the flight must also change. We're going to secure the capability of domestic aviation. It's needed all over the country.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-343	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Deputy Minister of Finance Åsa Lindhagen. In recent weeks, five women have been murdered by men they have or have had a close relationship with. In recent decades, men's violence against women has been a central part of Sweden's gender equality policy. Now, under the coronap pandemic, we see an increasing number of children reporting that they see violence in their homes. It is not a day too soon that we are going to criminalise letting children witness violence. But muscles are also needed in this work.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-346	Madam President, I would like It would have been good if I had to go upstairs to heaven, so I had to meet her. This quote has stuck in my memory from a conference that we held in Stockholm City when I was a Social Mayor's Council during the last term of office and Unizon was there and lectured. Around these women who are murdered every year, there are also many children who lose their mother and who will never get her back. There are so many different parts we need to work with. One thing is that we have greatly increased the resources for women's shelters, which are making extremely important efforts. We have tightened up legislation in a number of areas. We need to protect children better. But we must also ensure that women are protected from this serious violence. It is both a question of providing resources and of tightening up the legislation on several points.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-348	Madam President, I would like I am grateful that we have a government in Sweden that sees this whole. We need clear sanctions and protect women from continuing to be abused by men who have been banned or sentenced, and it is important to ensure that we have preventive action. Little boys shouldn't grow up to be men who beat. This is where society needs to build up its strength.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-349	Madam President, I would like What the honourable Member points out about prevention is extremely important. That is something we would also need to talk a lot more about. How do we ensure that those who practice this violence are framed and put an end to it? And how do we ensure that this violence is not carried out in the first place? We know that there is a link between destructive male standards and the practice of violence. We need to work violently for e-building already in preschool and school and talk about norms and values and about tight man standards in order to actually put an end to the violence in the first place.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-351	Madam President, I would like Our cultural heritage is covered by monuments as well as buildings, objects, environments, activities and traditions that we have been tasked with managing and passing on to future generations. One authority that is responsible for taking care of our cultural heritage, among other things, is the National Property Board. Unfortunately, the National Property Board has been underfunded for a number of years. Meanwhile, our cultural heritage rusts, rots and disappears. I would like to pay particular attention to the military-historical heritage that the Fortifications Agency takes over to the National Property Board in the form of both maritime and transport-historical objects. Anyone who knows anything about machines knows they shouldn't stand still. And boats are experienced by lying on land and still at sea.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-354	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. First of all, I share the questioner's view of our cultural heritage. It is extremely important that we work for and do more to preserve, develop and also use our cultural heritage. This is particularly important for future generations. This applies to both our physical and intangible cultural heritage. The government has done a lot of things, with an active cultural heritage policy, such as the Museum Act. I also share the questioner's view on how important they are for active management. It is not the Ministry of Culture that is responsible for the funding or funding of the National Property Board, but it is clear that we recognise their importance and see their important role. The Ministry and the Authority also have a lively dialogue. While we are talking about cultural heritage, I can add that I am very pleased that this year, within the framework of crisis support, we can provide more money to the non-profit cultural heritage organisations around the country. A huge number of non-profit hours are being worked for the preservation and promotion of our cultural heritage.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-359	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Recently, the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency decided on new regulations for media support. These are regulations that have met with massive criticism, not least from many heavy media players. The new regulations make it clear that, in order to obtain support, it is not possible to disinform or mislead about science. These are interesting regulations in the light of the disinformation and fake news that appeared in many media about migration as a huge profit deal that would save pensions. The government has had a very high tone when it comes to free media. But you yourself are pursuing a policy of government agencies deciding which media is disinforming and misleading about science. With the government's policy, the state is to decide which media is telling the truth. Amanda Lind! How is freedom of the media in Sweden affected by the fact that government agencies, because of your policy, will decide which media is telling the truth?
i-XwpssaofLsw4DRwdnwUHnM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the question. As I have said here in the speaker's chair, it is a work that the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency has done independently. When there are limited financial resources available for the non-right-based part of press and media support, there has been a need to implement such regulations. It is an opportunity that an authority has. It's not something the government controls. As a starting point, the foundation has been used to describe the purpose of media support, and it is based on a broad party political agreement here in the Riksdag. Having said that, I understand – as I have said before – the debate that has arisen and the fundamental and concrete views, not least from the media sector. I therefore intend to analyse the position taken by the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority and the impact of the regulations.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-366	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. Yesterday we heard Russia's President Putin give his speech on the state of the nation. The authorisation of Aleksej Navalnyj was not affected. But we know it's very bad. The requirement should be clear from all EU Member States; we should act together to demand that Navalnyj be released and receive medical care that he trusts. I want to hear what the Foreign Minister says about this. Madam President, I would like Red lines were also mentioned in the speech yesterday. Red lines did not contain the lines of the European security regime. What conclusions does Minister Linde draw from this?
i-ESAfHzC59TGpp4rmckHWmi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! It is very important to be clear about Navalnyj. That is why I am pleased that a completely united Europe has made very clear statements about the total release of Navalnyj and for him to receive medical attention from a doctor in whom he himself trusts. The EU has also imposed sanctions on Navalnyj in two rounds. It was the first time in October that he was poisoned and almost murdered. This was the second time in connection with the February trial, which we believe was politically justified. With regard to the European security regime, it is one of Sweden's top priorities in our OSCE Presidency. We are constantly calling for respect to be shown for the joint agreements that we have reached in the OSSE.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-374	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now, on Monday, a trial begins in Ankara against 108 elected politicians from the HDP party. Today we have already heard a question from the Liberals about this. It shows how many we are, from different parties, who think it is a very important issue. It is about elected politicians and party leaders who are arrested and brought to justice, simply because they are elected politicians. It is incredibly serious for a democratic society and for human rights. But it also gets quite close to us as elected Members; there are colleagues for us in other countries who are arrested precisely because they are elected politicians.
i-6VtJ75sYAWrcpsgZ2xeCP3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for the question! There are indeed many of us who are engaged in what is happening in Turkey, not least with our sister parties HDP and CHP. There are very many, both mayors and other politicians and party leaders, who are now in prison and who have been mistreated. We have, of course, demanded release, and we support them in various ways. In Sweden, we also have the opportunity to give democratic support to our sister parties, for which I am a great advocate. I personally raised the issue with my Turkish colleague because it is of course totally unacceptable for opposition politicians to be detained and arrested, in particular for being arrested on totally arbitrary grounds that are politically motivated.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-382	Madam President, I would like Just over a week ago, the infrastructure bill came in. The government's proposal for unfunded high-speed rail lines consumes the space that would be needed for maintenance and improvement measures on the existing rail network. According to Trafikverket, the maintenance debt is SEK 43 billion and is expected to grow every year. For example, 150 kilometres of overhead contact lines have already passed their technical service life. Within an increasing part of the rail network, capacity cannot be used and the speed must be kept down due to poor maintenance. Large resources are lacking to remedy acute failures and disturbances. No tables can be found in the bill for the distribution of which paths can possibly get any small portion of what is left over. So I wonder what the government's thinking is. Should the same template be used as before, so that Kalmar County ends up last in the league for the 21st year in a row?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question! It is a historic proposition that we can present: SEK 876 billion, i.e. nearly SEK 900 billion. I think I said "Bigger than Biden" because it's bigger than the big investment package that's been launched in the United States. This will create both jobs in Sweden and increased competitiveness. It gives the transport sector an opportunity to switch to sustainable and to meet the climate requirements, but also to link the country together. Respectful of the fact that not everyone knows how the process works: A bill to the Riksdag sets out the framework for the resources to go to this. That is what the Riksdag supports. It is only next year that the government in the national plan will report on which specific objects should be included, i.e. if, for example, Stångådalsbanan is involved. However, we report here how much should go to maintenance. There will be a strong, continued increase in maintenance to both road and rail. It is needed after years of underinvestment.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-389	Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently chairing the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. Ann Linde, as Foreign Minister, naturally devotes a great deal of time and effort to this. It is a work that is widely appreciated by all eight parties in Parliament, as is often shown in the Foreign Affairs Committee's discussions with the Foreign Minister. Recently, the Minister for Foreign Affairs visited the Central Asian countries. These are countries with a lack of democracy, varying degrees of authoritarianism and a lack of freedom and independence for the courts and the media. What can the Secretary of State tell us about the trip? Was it possible for the Foreign Minister to meet with opposition and peoples' movement representatives?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-391	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. I wish I had an hour and not a minute because it was a fantastic journey. It was the first time in 28 years that a foreign minister was there. Firstly, yes, I had the opportunity to meet the opposition. Secondly, there is a huge difference in the development of these countries. A little simplistically, Central Asia is often seen as one country, but in one country it had had 34 prime ministers in 30 years and in another it had had two presidents in 30 years. It shows a little bit of the range. In some countries, democracy is moving in a positive direction, for example in Uzbekistan. In other places it is still very authoritarian and it goes back. Everyone's worried about what the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan means.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-394	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. I want to talk about business support. Trade companies have now been given the opportunity to receive sales support, but then they will be up to 200 000 SEK. On the other hand, the construction of the aid does not allow companies to apply for the aid to the extent that they would need it because it consists of two parts. Often it is both passive and active owners. The County Administrative Board has been commissioned to distribute the grants and is now counting the passive owners into the support, even though they have nothing to do with this. It is therefore not about 200 000, but it can be 200 000 times three if there are three owners, two passive and one active.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! During the pandemic, we have now added a total of SEK 420 billion to support companies, individuals and not least healthcare with resources. A key element has been protecting jobs and entrepreneurship. Not least many small entrepreneurs have had a very tough situation. Most recently in the spring budget we allocate SEK 45 billion to help during the pandemic. Of course, the aid should be designed so that it is right, and I fully understand that there may be interpretation discussions on the rules for commercial companies. I would simply like to take the question with me to my colleague, the Minister for Finance. The starting point must be that we support and help each other with good conditions to be able to have viable companies after the pandemic so that we can get stronger out of the crisis and save jobs and businesses. Sweden's action against the Russian escalation
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-401	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. We have discussed today in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs the occupation of Crimea and Russia's support for breakaway areas in eastern Ukraine. I won't go into any more of what was said there. But Russia has now brought together very large forces of perhaps one hundred thousand men with combat vehicles, artillery and so on on the eastern and southern borders of Ukraine. If such marches are repeated and perhaps not only at that border but also further north in Europe, the other European countries to the west of Russia will be forced to build capacity for much faster mobilisation and far greater force than can be called upon today. It's very risky. I know that the minister is working through the OSSE to bring about a mediation between Russia and Ukraine, but we should not forget the UN that was formed after two world wars in Europe to counter charges such as this. Does Sweden act within the UN so that there will not be marches like this?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. The other night, UN Secretary-General António Guterres asked me for a call to get a briefing on my analysis of the situation in Ukraine and the relationship with Russia. We had a very long conversation. His assessment is that it is mainly the OSSE that will manage the confidence-building measures and the opportunities to act now. The UN supports in various ways, in particular through humanitarian aid. He also wrote this in a press statement after our conversation. There is therefore a close dialogue between the UN and the OSSE on this issue. The OSSE has several, also military, confidence-building opportunities, such as the Vienna document, Open Skies Treasure and other things, which we now use in concrete meetings with Sweden as chairman. I myself have spoken to the foreign ministers of both Russia and Ukraine.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-406	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. The train industry has been hit very hard during the pandemic with a drop of over 60 percent. With government restrictions, the situation will continue to be gloomy for the rail industry. While the aviation sector has received over SEK 14 billion from the government in targeted support, the railway sector has received only about SEK 1 billion. The long-distance passenger transport by train has not received even 1 crown from the government in targeted support.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-408	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the commitment to the trains! We really do share that. Sweden needs more trains and more rail to meet the climate targets. It is also an effective way of transporting both goods and people. When it comes to how to count this, we have completely different data and figures. I believe that Jens Holm mixes credit guarantees and loans to some air carriers to meet the challenges of direct sums to regional airports. Furthermore, I think that Jens Holm underestimates the support we have given to public transport, which is largely rail-bound, not to mention the direct aid that goes to companies that drive goods by rail, such as Green Cargo and Hector Rail. Through environmental compensation, they have received multimillion-dollar subsidies during the pandemic. We are doing what we can to ensure that both transport by rail and other parts of the transport sector can cope with the pandemic crisis. We shall, of course, do so in a way that contributes to a better conversion of the transport sector in order to reduce climate emissions.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-412	Madam President, I would like I turn to Amanda Lind. There is a great deal of support for the Corona restrictions, and they have only been extended today. But I would like to mention an inconsistency. Outside Skara is Varnhem Monastery Church. It's been there for almost a thousand years. During the weeks it is a museum and gathers a lot of people. There is now the square meter rule, which means that there can be 70 people there at the same time. But on Sundays, there can only be one tenth that many. The Public Health Agency has said that there is a greater risk of spreading when moving in a room than when sitting down. The question is therefore whether it can really be more dangerous to be in this beautiful monastery church on Sundays than it is on a Saturday or Thursday. Would it not be reasonable for us to have uniform rules that are easy for everyone to understand?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-415	Madam President, I would like Uniform rules will probably be difficult. What we have been working on, not least from last autumn with the new Pandemic Act, is to be able to bring about differentiated rules, so that the situation and conditions to keep a distance is what should govern what the restrictions look like and not exactly what activities are subject to the old Order Act. Now there is on the table a proposal based on that you can receive a little more people if you are outdoors and there is the opportunity to sit. The Public Health Agency has previously come forward with the hope that we could make this decision. Today it was announced: Due to the serious contamination situation and the high burden on health care, another period of time is waiting for this to be carried out. When it comes to premises where people move, such as shops and museums, the Public Health Agency has chosen to build on square metres of space. When it comes to events where people sit down and experience a thing for some time, one would rather have a distance between seats and limiting the number of people in a first step.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-419	Madam President, I would like Again, again, most recently in Tigray, Ethiopia– I refer to conflict-related sexual violence, a brutal weapon of war that has been condemned by the international community but without sufficient results. This year's report by the UN Secretary-General is a bitter reading. The report notes that conflict-related sexual violence does not take place in a vacuum but is part of broader security factors, which have deteriorated due to covid-19. In order to restore a better society, we must ensure that the victims are not forgotten and that their voices are heard at all levels of decision-making. It is extremely important that there should be accountability towards those who have committed these vile acts. Discharge cannot be an option. I wonder: how does the Foreign Minister intend to work on Resolution 1325, prevent sexual violence in conflicts and demand accountability?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-423	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Kayhan for this important issue. I will begin with the situation in Tigray, Ethiopia, which is extremely worrying. Together with the EU, Sweden has called for an end to violence, the protection of civilians and unhindered humanitarian aid. I have also presented this to my Ethiopian counterpart on several occasions, and the Prime Minister has presented the same to his counterpart. There are very worrying reports of sexual and gender-based violence abuses and violations. We also see reports of abuse in other parts of the country than Tigray. We call for independent investigations and for those responsible to be held accountable for the abuses and violations. We also use UN Resolution 1325 in every way we can.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-426	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Amanda Lind. I am very concerned about the decline in sports among young adults and among young people. A recent study shows that there were as much as 500 000 fewer participants last year and that there were 6 million participants in sport in 2020. I am very concerned about this. In fact, there was a declining trend even before the pandemic. Sport is important for health, for the Community and for breaking isolation. The groups where the number of athletes is now falling most are young adults over 17 years of age and people with disabilities over 25 years of age. It is extremely important to get sport back on track. I'm very afraid you won't come back. Now I have a question for the Minister for Culture and Democracy: what can be done about this concern, which has actually existed for quite some time?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-429	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström for a very important question. I share the concerns expressed by the honourable Member about the reduction in sport among our children and young people and, in fact, among our entire population. As I said, this is a development that existed even before the pandemic struck. We saw declining activity levels in our children and not least teenagers. For the government, it has been important to give priority to children's opportunities for sports during the pandemic. In Sweden, children have been able to a greater extent than in many other countries in Europe and the world to practise their sport during most of the pandemic, and this has been important. Now, of course, it would be very good to be able to get started with the match business as quickly as possible, because it motivates, inspires and gives that joy and desire to continue. We have provided emergency support for sport. It is absolutely crucial to maintaining our association life. In the last budget, we have also provided funds for re-starting specifically aimed at children and young people. It will be important to get the kids back to sports.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-433	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Åsa Lindhagen a question about what her answer is to the young people who are forced to turn down jobs, studies and independence because of the second amortisation requirement. But the fact is that we already know the answer to that question. The Green Party will continue to pursue a policy that allows the gap to grow and widen between those who have their own home and those who do not. My question is, instead, about what the government's response to the matter really is, because the Social Democrats have recently gone out and criticised the amortisation requirement in the Real Estate newspaper. They say: a review of the amortisation requirements is reasonable. ... The impositions that have taken place over the last decade are most likely not justified. ... A more balanced amortisation requirement for young and first-time buyers would be desirable. ..................................................... To make it extremely clear to the young people who knock on the door to adult life: whose message is it that applies – the Green Party or the Social Democrats?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-436	Madam President, I would like I have said this earlier in this debate: I am an engineer in essence and find figures interesting. When we look at the amortisation requirement, we can see that neither the number nor the proportion of young people borrowing money has changed since the amortisation requirement was introduced. However, you take and borrow a little less. You buy a little cheaper apartments. It is not by removing the amortisation requirement that we will solve the housing crisis, but by building more cheap rentals that people can afford to demand and by investing in student housing. The government is making major efforts with investment support, for example, to get more rental apartments in place. Of course, we have a housing market that is very challenging for many people. It is extremely high prices and difficulties to step in. But it is not by abolishing the amortisation requirement that we will resolve this, because we see that people have not borrowed less money. Young people haven't. We need to look at the figures that exist. There are other things that need to be done.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-440	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Tomas. Since 2000, 315 people have died because of men's violence against women. I've worked in a court myself. I've seen the violence leading up to this. I've heard women tell me about how their heads are pounded against concrete. I've heard the stories about how you get to kick your stomach when you're pregnant. These are terrible stories. Many people are concerned about these issues. I have promised those whom I have met that I will do what I can to bring this violence to an end. But what I notice in the discussion with them now is that there is a suspicion. These questions are being addressed right now, but I think there are a lot of people out there who want to know: Is the government serious? Will you hang in when the headlines decline? Will this be maintained in the long term and really bring about a change?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-443	Madam President, I would like Yes, indeed! I say that with all my heart. These are issues that have been our priorities all along. For several years, we have been working systematically to tighten up legislation, support shelters for women and ensure that men's violence against women is prosecuted. Not least during the pandemic, we have made extra efforts to protect many more victims of violence. It is also a question of working tirelessly to prevent this. I sometimes note that some mock gender education and the whole discussion. But how important it is to pay attention to attitudes in the dressing room or how boys and girls relate to each other early in preschool, school, leisure and association life. Here we all have a responsibility. The government will keep a strong focus on this, with clear resources for the police and justice system. But all of us here, not least all men, have an incredible responsibility now to take the civil courage and roar from every day when it is necessary.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Petersson, for your speech. It is a bit difficult to get back into the heat of the debate after Question Time. During the time of the Social Democrats in the government, the level of insurance has increased slightly. It is not least because of the governance and clear guidelines to reduce sickness benefits. It is certainly not a day too early for the government to finally delete the sickness benefit rate after both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party have taken the initiative. Both in this speech and in previous debates on risk groups, Member Björn Petersson highlighted the ambition to try to bring about a change at day 365 so that it would not be as harsh assessments and that exceptions could be made more easily. We have a proposal here today. We have a motion for it, and the Left Party too has a motion for it, and there is a reservation about it with a desire to send such an announcement to the government. How is it that the Social Democrats vote down this proposal when there is a possibility of a clear majority for it? I think that it should strengthen the wish of the Social Democrats to get the proposal through if there was also an announcement in the back. Then I know that there are other parties that I have tried to ask questions to today that do not support this. But why take this opportunity to support the proposal? It is here today in Parliament. It is on the table to vote in favour. There had been an opportunity to get through an announcement of the important change for day 365 to make more exceptions so that people who are in their rehabilitation can continue it and then return to their employer.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-453	Madam President, I would like Julia Kronlid is asking adequate questions here. If we start with the increase in insurance under social democratic rule, it is true and terribly tragic. That has not been the intention of the Social Democratic Party at all. When we took off the stock of the health insurance, we were supposed to end the insurance. It had strange and undesirable consequences, we have been able to see in retrospect, where the insurance was instead carried out at day 180 and the application of the rules became increasingly sharper. We have developed measures for this. We set up the investigation. We have now worked for four years to change the rules at day 180. This is not just about governance, which has also been changed. The nine-day target set in the discussions has long been removed. It has been clarified that it is through early intervention and rehabilitation that we will reduce sickness rates and not by providing insurance for those who are ill and have not received rehabilitation. It is with great pleasure that we, together with the other parties, have managed to bring about a change at day 180 that took effect on 15 March. We are now making proposals to change the part relating to normal work and how to interpret it. These are important steps. That is another part that we have not succeeded in doing. It is change at day 365, which Julia Kronlid highlights. It's just as Julia Kronlid describes. We have debated this before, and we have not managed to get it through. Why do we not support the Left Party's and the Swedish Democrats' reservation? Yes, it is because we are part of budgetary cooperation with the Centre Party and the Liberals, and it is a budgetary issue. That is why we need to bring the cooperation parties with us.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-460	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Petersson, for the sincerity that, in fact, insurance has increased very sharply during the time of the Social Democrats in power! I very much hope that we can now turn that curve around. I have another question. I know that Björn Petersson said in his speech that perhaps we could at least agree to file away the sharpest edges of health insurance. We can discuss deadlines. But there are a lot of things you could do to provide positive incentives for people and also make health insurance more flexible. I think we could find solutions. There we have a proposal that it should be time again for a parliamentary inquiry and a parliamentary committee. But the Social Democrats are also voting down. There is now an investigation team for health insurance that I myself am in. I think it's great. I hope that we will achieve good results there, but why not have a major parliamentary inquiry? Much has changed. Today we are seeing a sharp increase in mental health problems. We are now also faced with a situation where we do not really know the long-term consequences of the pandemic and what changes we might have to make in health insurance because of it. How do the Social Democrats and Mr Petersson see that such a thing would be needed and that we sit down in the negotiating table and try to find long-term good solutions for a more humane health insurance? This would prevent insurance from going up or down, or in whatever direction they are moving, depending on the government. People should be able to feel confident that when they fall ill they should also receive the compensation to which they are entitled. It should not depend on whether a government has to spend money on welfare in order to fund something else.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-466	Madam President, I would like As Julia Kronlid says, I talked about fileting away the sharpest edges of the system. I am not doing this because that is all I want, but because I make the assessment that it is possible. Would it be good to have a parliamentary committee, to sit down and agree on how to strengthen health insurance? Yes, it could have been if it were the case that we in Parliament had a majority in favour of it and were able to agree on a system for strengthening health insurance. The basic problem is that we have fundamentally different opinions. It may not sound quite like that when we stand here in the speaker's seat, because everyone, regardless of party, wants people well. But we have very different views on what is the individual's responsibility and what is the public's responsibility. I am of the opinion that today we are quite in agreement with the Swedish Democrats. We agree on many issues. Julia Kronlid has asked me why we have not voted in favour. We can't do that today. It is also the case that Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats want to cooperate with the Moderates. They have a completely different starting point in health insurance than we have. To sit in a parliamentary committee and try to reach a broad consensus is only possible if the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates choose different paths. If the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats stick together in such a committee, we will not find a broad and long-term solution on such an issue either. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in doing so in other matters either. I would like nothing more than for us to be able to find large, broad solutions. But until that is possible, I will do everything I can to find the little things where we can actually get along and take steps forward for the good of all.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-474	Madam President, I would like Social insurance – health insurance and other social security systems – is an expression of the fact that together and together we are building a strong and robust society, in which we jointly manage to overcome difficulties. There may be difficulties for the individual who becomes ill, who loses his job, who needs to come back. These may be difficulties that we need to tackle together, like a pandemic. Our social security systems have been tested hard in the last year. But they've been important. They have been the basis for many of the measures we have taken to ensure that individuals and families are not hit too hard by the effects of the pandemic. The fact that we have functioning safety nets is important for confidence in society. Those who are confident that there is a system that captures if something happens can live in the present, can allow themselves, for example, an education, to change jobs, to invest in the future. But you don't trust the future and you don't have the courage to make these important choices. The result is a shared society. When we see breaks in the nets, we have to repair the systems, and that is what the government is doing now. We'll repair the rifts in the health insurance. It was the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government that already in the last parliamentary term removed the lower time limit in health insurance. It was an absolutely necessary measure, but it was not enough. The same government, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, set up the investigations that during this parliamentary term have submitted a series of reports and proposals to address many of the remaining shortcomings. We intend to implement those proposals, and we do. We started with the proposal that came into force in March: that the assessment of the ability to work against the whole labour market after six months of illness should be postponed if the main reason is that the insured person can return to work with his own employer. After that change, more people will be allowed to keep their sickness benefit. It is one of the proposals that the government has had investigated. And we keep going. The next proposal that has come is that Försäkringskassan should indicate within which occupational group the patient is deemed to have the capacity to work, i.e. which type of job is eligible. This will mean the end of the fictitious jobs that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has been able to refer to and which have all too often led to a person who is ill not being helped by either the Swedish Social Insurance Agency or the Swedish Employment Service but falling between the chairs. The Government has also changed the target for health insurance and updated the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan. The agency is now given a mandate to work much more clearly with preventive measures, past rehabilitation interventions and better coordination. It will be rehabilitation for real instead of forcing sick people to work even if they cannot work. The Green Party has been a driving force. I am glad that we are in the midst of these changes in the health insurance system, but we are still far from there. There are still lines of proposals left, and we shall continue to implement the proposals we have had examined step by step. I had hoped to present further measures, such as more reasonable and humane assessments later in the rehabilitation chain so that more people can keep their sickness benefit even after day 365. There should be no doubt that the government's two parties want to move forward and want to repair health insurance. Resistance is elsewhere in the Riksdag. I would have liked at least a somewhat softer resistance from the Centre Party and the Liberals on this issue. Our society deserves a functioning security system. The many long-term ills that we have deserve human health insurance. I also note that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, individually, have proposals for a gradual reduction of sickness benefit at days 90 and 365 and the reintroduction of the longer deadline. It is becoming increasingly clear, Madam President, that it is the bourgeois definition of the work line that is causing it. In bourgeois rhetoric, it is not about labour but about wage labour. Wage work is defined as inside and everything else – unemployment, studies, illness – as exclusion. It can be about any employment, such as volunteering in civil society. Outside and shame! It is connected with the bourgeois view of man, where man is basically lazy and inactive. The sick person is suspected of being a cheater or too lazy to work. It should pay to work, you say. We will create incentives to get back to work through the gradual reduction of sickness benefit, says the Moderate exercise. But this is in such a clear contrast to what we hear from those who are really sick. In every conversation with a person who is or has been long-term ill, the desire to get back to work returns. That's exactly what you hear from the sick all the time. I believe that this gap between the bourgeois negative, accusing view of man on the one hand and reality on the other is the basis of the whole problem, which is why we have ended up where we are in health insurance – the health insurance with the rehabilitation chain, the sorting out, which the bourgeois alliance government introduced. If we get away from the bourgeois definition of the wage-labour line, it is very much won. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has insisted that we now take these steps to repair health insurance. We want to implement the proposals that have been examined during this parliamentary term. But we want more too. We want flexible and personalised health insurance based on a holistic approach. Rehabilitation should be initiated early but must also be allowed to take the time it takes. Rehabilitation shall also be evaluated on an ongoing basis. In the long term, we want to investigate a new, comprehensive insurance policy for illness and unemployment with a common authority instead of two and with one door in. In this way, we avoid people balling between these authorities or falling completely between the chairs. Although health insurance is a conversion insurance, it is important that rehabilitation aims to return, as far as possible, to freshness and quality of life in the first place and then, of course, to work, study or other employment. The bourgeois definition of the work line must be removed. Madam President, I would like In addition to this, the Green Party has some other motions in the report, and I shall mention three of them. Firstly, we need to combat child poverty. Social protection systems are crucial to this work. Without the economic family policy, a quarter of Swedish families with children would have been poor according to the EU poverty definition. But the replacement levels are not quite holding. We need to list the levels. Secondly, the Green Party wants to strengthen the conditions of artists and cultural workers. The government has recently written a letter on artists' conditions, but social security needs to come in more clearly. Finally, and thirdly, it is a question of investigating basic income. Citizens' salaries are on the agenda in many parts of the world. Different systems are being tested, but it is generally a question of unconditional money in the hands of everyone. There are great benefits to such a basic security system. The attempts made around the world differ in several ways, and we would therefore like to begin by having the matter examined so that we can find, for example, the right levels of basic income. Madam President, I would like As usual, we are pursuing our proposals through the government, and I therefore call for all the motions in the report to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-495	Madam President, I would like I agree with what my colleague, Mats Berglund, has said in his speech and I wanted to continue a little bit where he concluded. It is simply a question of basic income. Everyone has the right to financial security. Anyone who has no income should be guaranteed an allowance that can be lived on regardless of previous income and whatever the reason for your lack of income. That's what our party program says. We are the only parliamentary party that makes this clear in our party programme. We are also the only parliamentary party that wants to actively investigate how a basic income can work in Sweden. But basic income is not a new idea, and it is currently being tested around the world. In more than 38 countries there are examples of how basic income has been implemented, and we can look at the projects for inspiration. Not least, the issue is topical during the pandemic that is taking place. Therefore, the UN has urged countries to distribute basic income to 2.7 billion extra vulnerable people during the pandemic. Paradoxically, there is a kind of basic income in our development policy already today. There is no doubt that the easiest and most effective way to eradicate poverty is to give money directly to those who need it. Therefore, in our aid we give SEK 40 – 50 per person per month to 80 percent of the population of Sudan. This may sound like pennies, but to the individual they make a big difference. I and the Green Party are also convinced that a person can judge for himself what the money is to be used for. It is not best decided at state or organisation level, but it is up to each one to decide for himself. We trust the individual's ability to resolve this issue. With trust comes even more trust. We've seen that. Basic income means basic economic security. It frees up creativity. Anyone who doesn't think we'd work if we didn't get money has completely ignored the non-profit sector. Even we politicians know that most people who work politically make it voluntary. The force already exists in society and is an incredibly important part of our civil society and therefore our democracy. Giving a basic income unconditionally means no control, no mistrust and therefore no humiliation. We are effectively stopping the spiral of poverty, and we do not need to put ourselves in a bad economic situation and get rid of capital in order to get support for livelihoods. It also allows people to free themselves from destructive relationships. Of course there are questions, but this has been going on, and is going on right now, in many countries. However, there are points in investigating the issue, and that is why we have exercised to investigate the issue in Sweden in a context that suits us. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-504	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, which deals with forestry policy, MJU15. We Social Democrats have a reservation, number 26, which I support. On the other points, I support the committee's proposal for a decision. Yes, today we are debating the forest, which covers 70% of Sweden's land area. This represents as much as 40 million football fields, and this also makes Sweden one of the most forest-rich countries in the world. I myself am both proud forest owner and proud Western Northerner. I come from a county where the forest really means a lot. We extract gold from our green forests through hunting, mushrooming and berry picking, recreation and, above all, through all the products and jobs provided by the forest. Sweden is a proud forest country. The forest built our country's prosperity, and it will be important for jobs and welfare in the future as well. Madam President, I would like We have a lot of knowledge through our over a century-old use of the Swedish forest. The forest is also an important building block when we move from a fossil economy to a circular and fossil-free. In the growing circular bioeconomy, the long-term sustainable yield of forest raw materials must be ensured while also ensuring biodiversity and social values. The government and the Minister for Rural Development have put the many, broad and important forestry issues on the agenda throughout the term of office. The government's clear focus on forestry policy is solid. Swedish forestry policy is based on the equal goals of production and the environment. A fundamental part of forestry policy is the sectoral responsibility of forestry and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. We believe that ownership of forests needs to be protected and strengthened. The final report of the forest investigation has now been submitted to the Government and is in the process of being consulted on 30 April in order to obtain feedback and input from a broad group of stakeholders. The investigation is on a total of 1 300 pages and contains about 50 proposals. We will now have to turn the proposals and the points of consultation around together. The proposal of the forest investigation is to protect in particular 550 000 hectares of the mountain forest. There is an enormous amount in a particularly designated part of the country, and we Social Democrats are doubtful about that. Fjällskogen is the forest type that is most protected by all our forest types, and we Social Democrats believe that sustainable use in these parts of the country is also valuable. There are also protected species in other parts of the country, so we cannot put the entire stake in the same basket. The forest investigation's proposal to make greater use of forest owners' goodwill, knowledge and drive for the right effort to be made in the right place, we believe, is crucial to confidence in forest policy and the important work of our authorities. Volunteering must be the basis. In February this year the government also made a very wise and welcome decision and then gave the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency the task of reviewing how Sweden makes its reporting of protected areas to the European Environment Agency (EEA). It has been shown that Sweden's way of reporting differs from other comparable countries, and then the comparison becomes misleading. Among other things, voluntary provisions of forest, impediment or beach protection are not included in the formally protected forest. And we must ensure that we report properly. This mission is extremely important in relation to our international commitments to protect valuable nature and strengthen biodiversity, but it is also an important piece of the puzzle when proposals from the Forest investigation will eventually be developed. Clarification of the accounts will help to reduce misunderstandings and errors in the discussion and provide us politicians with a better basis when we eventually take decisions. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences SLU can now gather together in the work against forest damage. As of this year, Skogsstyrelsen and SLU have received SEK 30 million each to monitor, prevent and combat forest damage. Here, the Centre Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are actually opening doors when they want to address an announcement about measures against elm sickness and ash-sickness to the government. The government has already given a mission, which it is already working on. In addition, the Swedish Forest Agency and SLU have already developed their long-term plan. A new forest damage centre becomes the hub of the work to prevent and monitor forest damage caused by a wide range of harmful organisms, because it is not only about elm disease and ash sprat disease, but also about damage to spruce bark, tusk mushrooms and cloven-hoofed game. And what do we know about the future? The risk of different types of forest damage increases with climate change. Soil drought will become more common, leading to an increased risk of insect infestations and forest fires. Milder and shorter winters can mean less frost and increased risk of storm traps. A warmer climate also increases the risk of new pests becoming established in the country. Madam President, I would like Last week the spring change budget was presented, and there are also investments in the forest. It is proposed that SEK 365 million be added to the Swedish Forest Agency for compensation to forest owners who are denied logging permits in mountain forests. The government also proposes an investment in close-to-nature jobs aimed at young people. Measures in the field of nature conservation, outdoor life and biodiversity create employment across the country. The research policy bill also includes investments in forests. Research, innovation and new knowledge are important to harness the potential for the development of bio-based forest value chains. Therefore, in line with the strategy for the national forestry programme, the Government will invest SEK 30 million in this during 2021. Madam President, I would like Our Swedish forest assets form the basis for the Swedish forest industry. Forests are also an important part of the solution for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions to curb climate change. Environmental values in forests should be protected while securing jobs and export income from forestry. The Swedish forest is our green gold that creates jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. But Swedish forests also have a unique natural value and should therefore be managed in a balanced way between nature conservation and forestry. Now we politicians need to be constructive and prepared to see the whole of the forest in order to move forward and achieve a long-term approach to forestry issues. It is now up to us to ensure the long-term rules of the forest, make priorities and find the right balance between all interests.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-521	Madam President, I would like The debates take twice as long with all these disease control procedures before and after, but we have plenty of time. We are debating MJU15 Forest Policy, and I would like to begin by calling for approval of Moderates' reservation number 2. I would also like to highlight what the Social Democrats think is an unnecessary announcement. I think this is an important announcement. It is an important signal politics sends when a majority here sends on that it is important with the Swedish deciduous trees ash and elm. Of course, it is also important with all other trees suffering from diseases and other things, but here we have a large part of the cultural values in Sweden. The Swedish forest and Swedish parks and farms and other things have suffered greatly in recent years. Therefore, it is an important signal to send out that we think it is important that it becomes a development project to save ash and elm. On behalf of the Moderates, Madam President, we have been saying for some time that the amount of forest that is removed from production should not increase. We have also said that if you find very high natural values you can perhaps release the protection elsewhere. We think it is important to continue to pursue this issue, because we see what the forest will contribute in the future in terms of substitutes for building materials and other goods but also to use our forest properly and bind as much carbon dioxide as we can in order for the forest to contribute to the climate. The Social Democrats have just pointed out that we in Sweden have failed to report protected areas. That the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has now been given a mission is great, because it is extremely remarkable that for a long time it has been that we report something completely different and do not compare ourselves with similar countries in a way that could benefit us in Sweden rather than disadvantage us. We think it is important and good that this assignment has been given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and we hope that it lands in a wise way for Sweden and Swedish forests. What about biodiversity? someone says. Well, biodiversity is not as bad as many people want to claim. Rather, it is going quite well in Swedish forests and trends are moving in the right direction. Since the introduction of the new Forest Conservation Act in 1993, with freedom under responsibility, the amount of dead wood in the forest has increased. The number of deciduous trees and coarse deciduous trees has increased. The amount of old forest has increased. These are things that are often used to see biodiversity, so these are important parameters in this matter. I debated on one occasion with a member of the Green Party, Madam President, and she said that everything is going the wrong way in Sweden. All biodiversity in Swedish forests is going the wrong way. It rhymes pretty badly with the clear evidence we get because it's not so. This is not the case, so I think it is important to emphasise that things are actually going well and that Swedish forest owners are doing the right things to preserve biodiversity. There will always be things that suffer and some species that may have tough periods. But we introduced the new Forest Conservation Act- 93, and how many species have disappeared from Swedish forests since then? Zero or one, maybe. It is therefore important to conduct this debate on how we deal with biodiversity. On the part of the Moderates, we have also said that when we do not want to take more land out of production, we want instead to increase the work on the land that is taken out of production. So we increase the money there and have more money than the government has for the management of already protected land, because there is a management deficit. Both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have reported that there is a large management deficit on land already taken out of production. That is why it is important to take care of the high natural values that are there. Another thing that Swedish forest owners do voluntarily is set aside consideration areas when they fell off their forest. Consideration areas in Swedish forests today are, for example, edge zones, coarse deciduous trees and other things that are particularly valuable to protect during felling. Then comes the next concern: This must not be the key biotopes of the new era. When the forester has done this, showed consideration and left an area with high natural values at its felling, it must not be so that someone comes within a year or two and says: and here we have high natural values, so here you do not decide anymore. We absolutely want to avoid this, and it is important that we take it with us now that the Forest investigation has also said that key biotopes are not a good concept. Consideration should not become a new concept that makes forestry difficult. Madam President, I would like The forest is changing. The climate has changed and is getting warmer, but we also have greater opportunities to have high production in the forest. It is therefore important that we do not put sticks in the wheels of modern technology, breeding technology, in the forest. We should not put sticks in the wheels to possibly use forest fertilization on certain surfaces to increase production. It must not be completely impossible to get to a forest ditch where it is possible to do so. We will be able to use tools to increase production in Swedish forests. We are also quite close to how much we can harvest in Swedish forests today in relation to growth because we have chosen to take so much land out of production. Then it is incredibly important that we have high production on the land where we will actually have production. Another concern in Swedish forests today – or perhaps an opportunity and not a cause for concern, but at the moment I feel more concerned – are the different strategies and other things that come from the European Union. For example, we have the new biodiversity strategy. We have the EU's new forestry strategy. We have the proposal dealing with the EU's taxonomy and sustainable finances, about which a little was announced yesterday. We have LULUCF. All these strategies and other things from the EU are things that could make it more difficult for Swedish forestry and make it more difficult for us to have production in Sweden. The rest of the EU does not have forestry production in the same way that we have here in Sweden, so it is difficult to understand how important this is to us. We have an environmental objective called Living Forests. Quite a lot of people agree that we will not be able to achieve it regardless of whether we continue in today's way or completely alter today's use of the forest. It is quite strange, Madam President, that we should have an environmental objective that is really utopian and that we could never achieve. We therefore need to have this environmental objective reviewed so that it can be achieved. Something that also worries is when our forest board reports on how things are going with regard to this goal and says that this development is neutral, but the government says it is negative. The government thus has more knowledge than the Swedish Forest Agency in this situation, and such things may concern me some. We must have objective authorities, and we must listen to them at that time. We must always have objective authorities in the forestry sector. The speaker before the Social Democrats said that forestry policy is solid. Since the adoption of the new forestry policy in 1993, we have had a number of ministers who have always said that forestry policy is solid. But this is not the case, and it may depend more on how our authorities work in relation to Swedish forests and forest policy. There has been an incredible amount of damage to individual forest owners during this time, with land that has been expropriated and taken in various ways from forest owners. So forestry policy is not firm. The forest investigation, which was presented here, is interesting in many ways but not so interesting in some other ways. Of course volunteering is great. Compensation for landowners is great. But if I'm going to imagine how this is going to land and the possibility of actually getting a bill of this, the Center Party will have to excuse a little-- I think you might be a little fooled. I think that's my picture of this. I would say that one is fooled by forest socialism, with a new expression. That is what we have seen and are seeing all the time. We see an environmental party saying that we should protect twice as much forest as we do today. We have a forest investigation that says that we will take a further hundred thousand hectares of land out of production, when we rather need to increase our production. So, the Center Party– you have a wise and good forestry policy, and it rhymes very well with moderate forestry policy. I extend my hand to you here today and say: Take us in hand where you have the chance to get through this forestry policy and we'll make a workshop out of it!
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-546	Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only approve of our reservation number 10; it is about the key biotopes. We are now debating forestry. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has the world's most sustainable forestry. For those who read agricultural newspapers, this is no surprise, but I would like to point out it to those who have some contact with the forestry industry and perhaps get their information from newspapers such as Dagens Nyheter, which seems to have been used to run a formal campaign against the forestry sector during this spring. In Sweden we have been using our forests for hundreds of years, but they are still there, with perhaps more timber than ever, with higher growth than ever, and above all with so much species wealth that we can find red-listed species in almost all our forests. Having rare species is an asset, not the other way around. The number of forest species that have died out in Sweden in the last 50 years is extremely small, less than ten. The typical species lived in the southernmost part of Sweden in different intermediate forms between deciduous forests and agriculture. There is no sign that the number of species that disappear in Sweden is increasing, rather the opposite. The varied landscape picture that results from having forests in different age groups allows us to pick raspberries or lingonberries or look at moose in newly milled forests or pick mushrooms in the old forest. The dense forest road network that forestry maintains makes nature accessible to those who want to get out of it. The right of public access allows us to discover the forests and the animals that live there. Forestry in Sweden is connected with an absolutely world-class forest industry. In the chain from forest to newly produced small houses – yes even high-rises, by the way – or newspapers and diapers create lots of jobs and also export and tax revenues. No other industrial sector has as many employees in such large parts of the country as the forestry sector. In the future, the industry will hopefully also be able to produce textiles, biodegradable plastics, aviation fuels and mouthguards. Mr President, I would like to Sustainability is based on three legs: economic, ecological and social sustainability. I have just given examples of how Swedish forestry is sustainable from all three aspects – economic, ecological and social. That is why I can proudly say that Swedish forestry, together with Finland, is the best in the world. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Rural Development Jennie Nilsson, who, on 16 March this year, clearly declared to the DN that Swedish forestry is sustainable. Unfortunately, this is not often heard from other government ministers. However, forestry is only sustainable as long as all links in the chain are prepared to do their part. There is a need for new investments in the industry and for ever-better day-to-day consideration in forestry, carried out by motivated owners or users supported by the authorities. It is worth remembering that well over half of Sweden's forests are owned by individual forest owners. Mr President, I would like to The world is necessarily facing a major change. We need to be better at creating products from renewable materials, and we need to replace fossil-based materials and fuels. Sweden's main contribution to this transformation must consist of new products from the forest, our largest asset. This was also emphasised by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan at a seminar on the future of forestry the day before yesterday, Tuesday. We need to spend huge resources on researching new ways of producing textiles, biodegradable plastics and so on from the forest. In addition, policy must support industry with stable conditions. This is a prerequisite for companies to do the most important part by spending their resources on research, development and investment in new industries. Unfortunately, this government's energy policy is not stable. The closure of two reactors in Oskarshamn and two reactors in Ringhals after the takeover of power in 2014 has made the electricity more expensive and uncertain from Stockholm and south. The forest company Holmen closed production in two of its paper mills in February after the electricity price has skyrocketed again. We have to ask ourselves: are companies prepared for new billion-dollar investments in future products under such conditions? Another energy issue concerns biofuels. With its usual poor accuracy, the European Commission has argued for a number of years that it is not sustainable to produce biofuels from forest materials. However, the proposal for a taxonomy for sustainable products presented yesterday seems to have backed up somewhat on this point. Bioenergy from forest residues is one of Sweden's largest types of energy. Today it is mostly in the form of heat for industry, but in the future we should also produce biofuels for vehicles. Mr President, I would like to As I said, forests represent Sweden's great opportunity to contribute to a more sustainable global production and consumption. But then we can't put too much forest in a moth bag. We all know that the view on forestry is shared in our country. On the one hand, we have those who want to remove ever larger areas from farming. Here the attitude seems to be that the real forest is running out and must be saved from its owners. The owners are seen with this perspective as an obstacle or perhaps even a threat. On the other hand, we have those who see forest owners' forestry as the prerequisite for both a good forest state and a forward-looking forest industry, in interaction with politics and with the authorities as supporting bodies. The view that the forest owner should have freedom under responsibility was, as previous speakers have already noted, at the heart of the forestry policy adopted by the Riksdag in 1993 and still valid. But in the last seven years forestry policy has actually been undermined precisely by less focus on collaboration with landowners and more focus on evading forests from forestry, often on questionable grounds of concern. Let me give you an example. Five forest fellings near Bollnäs were banned for the forest to be located near the southernmost distribution of lavskråkan. More specifically, it was estimated that the border was 70 miles [70 km] south of the logging posts. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, 250 species of birds breed, and all species have their distribution areas. With this kind of argumentation, all fellings end up close to the range of a bird's range. Laws and their applications must be predictable, including for landowners. Criticism of this type of decision was behind the fact that the Property Law investigation was started according to demands from the Riksdag and as part of JÖK. Unfortunately, the investigation came to be disproportionately about further protection of forests. As social democrat Malin Larsson has pointed out, there is a giant reserve at the edge of the mountains where already 62 per cent of Sweden's formally protected forests are located. We believe that the proposal for a coherent area of protected forest near the mountains violates fundamental principles of forest policy. Such a principle should be that objective reasons exist in order to prevent felling against the wishes of the owner. Another such principle is that authorities should not make decisions over the heads of landowners. But if you say that you should have a coherent protected area, it presupposes that you are prepared to run over landowners who do not think it is a good idea. If we are to continue to increase timber production and improve biodiversity, the authorities must have a clear primary role to support forest owners. They should work for better forest management and conservation, yes, but through advice and by being able to offer paid care contracts where necessary. It is about these issues that our forestry movement deals with. It contains 38 claims, and most of them are about giving Sweden stronger forestry with continued environmental considerations. One of the claims has become an announcement to save elm and ash, which Staffan Eklöf will talk more about. Otherwise, most of our claims are about preserving the Swedish model with everyday considerations in active forestry and about the development of the Swedish forestry sector, rural areas and the bioeconomy. The motion is also based on protecting Swedish forest owners from decisions taken over their heads, both in Brussels and in corridors on Swedish authorities.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-572	Mr President, I would like to We need Swedish forestry. But we need sustainable forestry, and that is not where we are today. Sure, there are good examples, but so far they are too few. The forest provides us with a range of valuable ecosystem services, such as water and air purification, as it gives us the production of raw materials. A rich biodiversity increases forest production capacity and also provides greater resilience to climate change. Some of Europe's last old forests are disappearing in Sweden, and we do not have long to stop that development. Then it's gone, and then forever. There is not enough old forest to even reach the minimum level of forest protection that we have set as our goal. If we were to protect all this forest, then we would still not reach the goal, and yet this felling continues. Even the Swedish state's ownership of forests is not able to be responsive to protect social values, biodiversity, reindeer pastures and the like to the necessary extent. For decades, Swedish forestry policy has been based on freedom under responsibility, and the Forest Protection Act says that consideration for the environment should weigh as much as production interests. But that is not what it looks like in practice. Sweden achieves neither environmental objectives for living forests nor international commitments to preserve biodiversity. It is clear to the Left that in much of today's forestry, profit interests go before environmental considerations. In order for Sweden to achieve sustainable forestry, as for any other activity, regulations and instruments are needed to strengthen environmental and social sustainability. Instead, the government has stepped up its pace to continue on the path that leads us further away from environmental objectives and international commitments. It is positive that the government has increased the funding to protect more forests, but additional financial resources are needed for this. In addition, measures are needed to strengthen environmental considerations in the large areas where forestry is carried out. Sweden needs to invest in clean forestry and set a national target to achieve it and also invest financially in order for more people to be able to reset. Even if they will remain, it is essential that environmental considerations are strengthened in this forestry method and that alternative forest management methods are used to a much greater extent. The interest in alternative methods, such as clean, has increased according to the Swedish Forest Agency, mainly among the smaller forest owners. It is also something that scientists say would benefit both climate and biodiversity. The Left Party believes that there is a reason to limit the size of the cormorants in the Forest Protection Act as well. Today, there is only one restriction on the size of the kerbs, and it is in the mountains near the forest. Otherwise, there is no legal limitation on their size, despite the fact that the fragmentation of habitats for many forest species is a known problem and the fact that very large scallops also affect the reindeer industry in those parts of the country where it is present as well as the social values throughout the country. A kalehygge is said to be good for Sweden. Today, however, forestry accounts for less than 3% of GDP and, for example, tourism accounts for at least the same amount. If you are in a district or a region where you stand and weigh between the two industries, forestry on the one hand and tourism on the other hand, it is perhaps not so strange if you want to choose something more long-term for the environment but also for the economy, which is a profit for the district. Sure, the forest has been involved in building the country. But now it is a question of creating added value, and the values that are created do not always remain in the area from which they are taken. This also applies to other things, such as hydropower, to give an example. Previously there was a redistribution, a social contract, where the raw material went out of the countryside but the state went in with community-building investments. It doesn't look like that anymore. If you are faced with a choice between developing your community, your village and attracting nature tourism on the one hand and a one-off income from a hut on the other hand, it may not be surprising if more and more people choose the more sustainable route. Let me be clear, however, that the Left Party is not opposed to either private ownership of forests or elements of voluntary forestry. However, how our forests are managed is, in our view, a matter for all of us as well as for future generations. The forestry policy we have affects the climate, biodiversity, reindeer husbandry, natural tourism and social values. All state forests should have sustainable management as their primary objective. State ownership of forest areas should be brought together in a company and should have a sustainable use of forest resources, not yield, as the main objective. Today's profit demands make it difficult for a state company or a government manager to give up productive forests to other interests. State-owned Sveaskog currently manages 99 percent of its forests with bare-cut mills. So there is room for change. The climate crisis requires us to act to reduce emissions. The Left Party believes that biomass from the forest should be used where it is most needed, as it represents a limited resource that can only replace smaller parts of fossil dependence. Today we need to think about how we use it. Since today we do not have sustainable forestry, we do not have a sustainable supply of biofuels either. A better and clearer regulatory framework is needed to make sustainable yield possible. Then we can use biofuels. The Left Party believes that it is residues from the forest that are to be used for biofuels, if anything. But the reports of the last few weeks have shown how trees are cut down only to be burned up as fuel. We know that the forest will not be enough for everything we want it to do. If you look at Fossil-free Sweden's road maps, you can quickly see that mathematics does not go together. That is why we need to start prioritising. Allowing 26 percent of all forest biofuel produced with domestic raw material in Sweden to come from the tree's trunk is a waste and rhymes badly with what the government has said about the fact that Swedish biofuels only contain residues from the forest industry. That is simply not true. No, it's not just about damaged trees. These are fully healthy trees or trees that were already dead before they were taken down. Both categories would have been able to contribute both to biodiversity and climate if they had been left behind. Of Sweden's total 25 000 forest species, at least 25 per cent are considered to be dependent on dead wood. It's all connected. Monocultures, call it forest or not, are extra vulnerable to extreme weather, harsh winds and forest fires. They are also particularly vulnerable to spruce bark attacks. Had the dead wood been left lying, it would have benefited the forest's ecosystem, for the dead wood lives the natural enemies of the bark drill. It is also important to see that the forest, the green gold, cannot save us from everything. As I have just said, there is not enough raw material from the forest to replace our fossil dependence today with products from the forest tomorrow. So we need to do more. A climate change change is required, but we also need to reduce our climate space. It follows that we must reduce our consumption and, by extension, our production of things. In most parts of the country, the forest is our most important outdoor environment. Forests in and near urban areas attract people of all ages to play, recreation and nature experiences. According to studies, people seem to thrive in forests where there is great variation in structure, tree species and age. The older and larger the trees become in a forest, the more they contribute positively to the forest experience. Studies in Sweden and abroad show that the difference in public health as a result of socio-economic status is decreasing in areas with good access to green environments. Sweden should therefore adopt a national objective for the protection of semi-urban forests and strengthen legislation to protect forests with particularly high values for recreation and outdoor life. In conclusion, the Left Party wants to see forest felling with high natural values stopped, the regulation for greater natural consideration in the forest strengthened, forest policy reviewed to achieve our environmental objectives and state-owned Sveaskog to have sustainability as its main goal. I ask you to accept reservation number one.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-599	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 9. It is also a good thing that there is an announcement of measures against elm and ash disease. Today we are debating forestry policy in this House. Forests have indeed become a major topic of discussion in recent years. A lot of people have opinions about the forest and how to manage the forest. It is great that it is discussed and that people may get a little more knowledge. However, we Christian Democrats believe that no one else knows better than the forest owners themselves how to manage their forests. It's rejuvenating. The forest is felled, you put three new plants around the stump and it is cleared and culled. The circle's up and running. This also helps to reduce the carbon dioxide content. Today we have 320 000 forest owners with an average of 50 hectares who own and use their forests according to the proven freedom under responsibility. That, of course, is how it should continue, I hope. A few years ago, I just referred to property rights in this House. I know some of the red-green team said it's not in danger at all. Today, however, we see clearly that this is the case. Of course you can own your forest, but you can't use it. There's a lot you can't do with it. I agree with Mr Widegren, who calls it green forest socialism. Mr President, I would like to Today we see various threats to property rights and to use their own forest. For example, taxonomy is being discussed in the EU and proposals that would pose a very serious threat to Swedish forestry. But we're not better at home. In recent years, prohibitions and restrictions have repeatedly been introduced. Examples of this are the key biotop inventory, which has put a wet blanket over everyone who wants to use their own forest. I've met a lot of people who can testify to how badly they treated authorities. At a generational change or a rounding, it has had major consequences because no one wants to buy forests that have key biotopes. Here we are calling on Christian Democrats to put an end to all key biotope classification. Today, it is not legal matters, but extremely arbitrary depending on where you live in the country. Mr President, I would like to A while ago, the Forest investigation came. It was called in January the agreement for a ownership inquiry. Everyone, including myself, who had high expectations of strengthened ownership is today disappointed and worried. The study proposes that 500 000 hectares of mountain-side productive forest land be protected for nature conservation. This is about 100 km corresponding to two thirds of the total area of mountain forest. The proposal concerns some 7 000 landowners directly but affects entire communities, which will remain silent. Many who live, live and work here have had their income from the forest. The forest land has been owned for generations and has been cultivated for hundreds of years. Last night, a forest owner from Central Sweden called me. He told us that many forest owners who have mountain-side productive forest land are extremely concerned after taking note of the forest investigation's proposals. The Christian Democrats will never blur ownership. We will never help people feel completely run over and at worst forced to leave the farm they live off. Mr President, I would like to The forest is a great asset to our country. There's been a lot of talk about here. The total export value in 2019 was SEK 150 billion. 70 000 people are directly employed in the forestry industry. If we count on all the subcontractors, we are talking about 120 000 people who have their income thanks to the forest. During 2019, 13.4 billion was invested in the Swedish forest industry. That's a huge amount of money. We know that there may be more investment, but that requires a long-term policy. It will be guaranteed with a new government in which the Christian Democrats are present.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-615	Mr President, I would like to I support the Liberals' Amendment No 7 on bioeconomy, but of course I support all our proposals. In this report, the Liberals have a specific opinion which concerns the breadth of our forestry policy. In view of the cooperation in the January agreement between the Liberals, the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we choose to have a special opinion on many of the proposals contained in our motions. And yes, ownership is also affected. Mr President, I would like to The forest means a lot to a lot of people. It is not just a question of production. Even for forest owners there are many different perspectives on the forest, because it is also about their habitat. For some, it's about outdoor life and recreation. Not least in these pandemic times, the importance of forests has been highlighted in many different contexts. This year, 2021, is the year of outdoor life. The ten targets were set in 2012. Some of the objectives are about the nature available and the need for protected areas as a resource also for outdoor life. Lakeside forest is of great importance. We in the Liberals are in favour of this development. We have heard a number of speeches today which raise a number of concerns about forestry policy, but we Liberals are confident about the future. Forestry is important for climate change and also, as I said, for nature experiences. Sustainable agriculture and forestry are part of the solution to today's environmental challenges. A focus on climate change, sustainable use, landscape conservation, environmental protection and biodiversity conservation is needed. Forests play a major role in climate action. Forestry, like other sectors, is responsible for the environment and the climate, but is also to be replaced for the public goods provided by nature conservation and biodiversity conservation. The forest is needed to cleanse the air as we breathe and to maintain the balance of the atmosphere and thus counteract climate change. Forests play an important role in the Swedish economy and, as I said, are crucial for biodiversity. Half of the endangered species in Sweden are linked to the forest. Forests are also an important part of many Swedes' private finances. That is why ownership is an important aspect of forestry policy. Many forestry is run small-scale and sustainable in the long term. It is also a habitat for many forest owners. Forests are important as a source of raw materials needed in an economy, for example, without fossil fuels. Forest policy is important and central to the efforts to halt the loss of biodiversity and to preserve vital ecosystems. This means that the work to protect valuable forests must continue as well as the work to use the forest as a carbon sink. Swedish forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. Both the state and the forest industry have a far-reaching responsibility for protecting forest ecosystem services, preserving biodiversity and safeguarding nature conservation and environmental protection. The management and management of forests shall also take into account the impact on forest ecosystem services. The establishment of nature reserves creates opportunities to safeguard these ecosystem services. Protected urban forests can play a very important role in densely populated areas, including from a climate perspective. Land use is a municipal matter in terms of planning. Municipalities that set up reservations usually do so to protect the habitat. It must not only be about promoting ecosystems and diversity, but also about people's environment, recreation and well-being, and not least about the tourism industry. Mr President, I would like to Forest management should also take into account climate change through, for example, what is being replanted. Gran plantations or so-called plantations can create vulnerability in the forest population. Protected urban forests can play a very important role in view of future climate change, with heat and large amounts of rain. Environmental considerations in forestry must be increased by, for example, felling methods and replanting. The possibility of re-wetting and wetlands is important, and ecologically valuable forests should be protected and preserved. Forests also have great potential as a source of renewable materials, chemical products, textiles, energy production and more. Mr President, I would like to Liberals' reservation is about bioeconomy. Liberals believe that sustainable biomass is a limited resource to be used where it has high value added and where it binds carbon for a long time. One example is the chemical industry's use of biomass. Unmannered subsidies can lead to biomass going to fuels rather than to products in the chemical industry. Controls shall be designed in such a way that the limited biofuel resource is directed to activities where it has a high value added and where coal can be trapped for as long as possible. Value added and the ability to bind carbon in the long term need to control allocation in order for biomass to make the greatest possible contribution to climate change, while at the same time exploiting it economically effectively. Here the time perspective is very important. Since atmospheric concentrations of climate gases need to be stabilised within two to three decades, the requirement for the withdrawal of biofuels is that it is climate neutral in a much shorter period of time than that. Finally, Mr President, with regard to elm disease, ash spore disease and the preservation of important species of trees, we in the Liberals believe that the work that has begun with Skogskadecentrum, the assignments to SLU and Skogforsk, etc. means that the work is already under way. That's why we're behind the reservation.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-634	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 26. A greener forestry policy is needed. We all know that the Swedish forest is important. It is important not only for the forest industry but also for the reindeer industry and the tourism industry. It is not only constitutional property rights that should be the focus of the forest debate, but also constitutionally protected right of public access. The forest that the forester calls his or her neighbor may call his or her mushroom forest. Perhaps the President calls the same forest his hiking forest. And I look at birds in the woods. For someone else, it's an orienteering forest. The Green Party stands up for sustainable forestry in the long term. The goal is for more people to live off the forest. More multi-use entrepreneurs linked to the forest provide more green jobs. We need to take our eyes off the horticulture with the big greens and see the various services and merits of the forest. The forest provides us with timber and timber and raw materials for various products, which will increasingly need to be recycled. Forests also benefit the climate and biodiversity. It provides blueberry picking, hunting, wilderness life and tourism. It gives public health. Modern, close to nature farming methods can go hand in hand with the profitability of the individual forest owner. In Sweden there are over 300 000 individual forest owners. We must make it easier for all these forest owners to engage in multi-use, with the production of quality timber and with eco-tourism and provide them with better conditions to certify their forestry and protect the forest. The bioeconomy strategy is something that we are working to develop right now. This is going on because it is a point in the climate action plan. In the bioeconomy strategy, the circular economy can become the driving force. Biomaterials can become more persistent, and we can have a broader perspective where we do not see forest products separately, agricultural products separately and products from the sea separately, but see that all biomaterials need to co-operate in a bioecononomy strategy. In that strategy, biodiversity also needs to be a basic requirement. Forest resources are not infinite. Last week the association Ecoforest had a Nordic seminar on a new future initiative for the forest called Ecoforestry Initiative. There is a growing interest from forest owners to conduct forestry with modern and natural-smart methods such as continuity forest management and clean forestry. I think it was particularly interesting to hear how the individual forest owners' economy can actually benefit from the fact that they are engaged in forestry where ecosystems are favoured and where the carbon stocks are kept high in both forest and land. Mr President, I would like to In the forest debate, the Moderates have often pointed out that they do not want to protect more forests and that they are happy to keep down the budget for protecting nature reserves. Professor Sten B Nilsson stated in a debate article that Moderate politics has a problem. This problem is that the small forest owners are affected by it. Forest owners get caught when the state can't pay for nature conservation and forest owners don't get money. The forest owners get caught when the state and the Moderates do not understand that there is a value in being certified for the environment. Forestry and forest protection are not contradictions. There are two compatible activities for the vast majority of forest owners. In a motion, the Moderates say that the authorities must not point out individual land but that it is done in agreement with the landowners. It is already the case today that in 100% of cases it is done in agreements with landowners. For many years there has been a conflict between nature conservation and forestry on forestry methods. And over the last decade, the conflict surface has slipped over to be more about the state's own conservation ambitions and also about individual forest owners. This has been done as reserve formation processes have become more common on individual landowners' properties and key biotopes have become a certification requirement, i.e. a voluntary market instrument. When the authorities began to apply the Species Protection Regulation with the result that planned forest fellings are hindered and when the Forest Board in its application of the Forest Protection Act denies permission to felling of mountain forests with high natural values then a lot of forest owners have reacted. It has also been highlighted in regular campaigns by some of the forestry organisations, and it has landed in political positions from the opposition. It is a formal authority's task to ensure that forests with high natural values are protected, and there is also legal support for this in the Environmental Code and in the Regional Protection Regulation. Municipalities also have the right to make decisions about nature reserves. It often takes quite a long time to create protection, on average three to six years, but it is not unusual with ten years of processing time. There'll be an inequality. It takes a few months to get the go-ahead for logging, but it may take ten years to get the go-ahead to get compensation for their protected forest. It will be very difficult for the individual landowner to plan. There are allegations in the debate that the state would expropriate land from forest owners. It's basically never gonna happen. The Swedish National Audit Office already pointed out in its 2018 review that the reservation work takes a long time and that the negotiations often get stuck. This is because it is a negotiation with the landowners. Therefore, it is very important to create clearer processes around this and to create better administrators' resources and the like. The forms of compensation for the protection and management of forests and nature must be improved. Here the forestry inquiry, which several members of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have spoken about, points to important proposals. These are proposals which we are now discussing and which will come back to this House, I hope. Speaking of the Forest investigation, Mr President, I would also like to mention that the Moderates mentioned in their speech that it is positive that the amount of dead wood has increased in the forest. It also emerges from the Forest investigation that this is such a positive trend. It is also very clear in the Forest investigation that there are enough dead wood, or larger quantities, in the protected forests. But in the production forests, the amount of dead wood is still far too small. In the production forests nature conservation is neglected. Biodiversity needs to be protected. International environmental research also shows that we in Sweden also have a very big problem. Measures implemented have not been sufficient to achieve the environmental objectives we have for forests. We must stop the loss of important habitats in the forest landscape.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-652	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt whatsoever that the Moderates and the Green Party are a bit apart when it comes to forestry policy. I don't think that's a secret. I don't think there's anyone in here who thinks otherwise. Since we were mentioned several times, I felt that I wanted to take the chance and ask some kind of counter-question. It is heard quite early in this speech that our view of ownership and that of the Green Party is a bit apart. For us, ownership is the absolute core value when it comes to forests. Ownership and use rights are at the core. Then there are other things, such as the right of public access, which is incredibly valuable in every way. We've never said anything about that. On the other hand, we see that there are major concerns today with the right of public access, and it is very much abused. I see, for example, in my own forest ownership how the right of public access is abused. It's a big worry. But that's another question, and we'll take it another time. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that there seems to be an idea on the part of the Green Party that the state is the best man to manage the forest. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that when I see leading representatives of the Green Party saying that we should protect twice as much land. It is apparently believed that the state takes better care of the forest land than the private landowner, who may have owned the forest and built up the values for generations, does. I would therefore like to have a comment from the Green Party on what was said by the spokesmen that we should protect twice as much. Is that the right way? Does the public actually take better care of the forest than the private landowner does?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-658	Mr President, I would like to The UN Diversity Panel Ipbes states that the loss of biodiversity is as great a threat to humanity as climate change, and this also applies in Sweden. The forest plays a very important role both in conservation work and in climate work, and the pressure on what the forest should be enough to do is now increasing very strongly. This is also the support of the Green Party. We have pushed forward the reduction obligation in order to phase out petrol and diesel from the vehicle fleet, and we are pressing for the development of the bioraffic industry. We really want to see a development where bio-raw materials replace fossil raw materials, and then we have to do so in a way that makes the Swedish forest strong. Two things are needed if it is to do so: more protection of nature is needed, but nature-oriented forestry is also required. These parts are important both, because there is nothing to suggest that the companies that will produce all these products from the future forest will not place high demands precisely on the survival of biodiversity. And because they will demand biodiversity, we in the Green Party believe that it is right that forest owners who have these valuable forest areas should also receive compensation from the state when they are not allowed to farm that land.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-661	Mr President, I would like to I did not really get an answer to the question as to whether it actually means and supports that we should protect twice as much as we do today. Mr President, I would like to I'm a forest owner myself. I have some forest at home. I would say that we are by no means unusual in our forest ownership: we are certified forest owners. We have certain areas of continuity forest management. We're making use of woodsheds. We work a lot with brows. We have natural pastures infested in the forest areas. We've got wood grazing. We have noble leaf production at our forest property. I would say that we are by no means unusual, and we take a rather large responsibility in terms of forest ownership. I think it looks like this all over the place. You take a big responsibility, because you think as a private forest owner this is important. Biological values are important. There will of course also be worse forest owners, who just want to line up spruce fields. But according to Riksskogstaxerings assessment of how much is actually mixed forest in Sweden, it is quite high percentages that are mixed forest. There is otherwise a lot of talk about monocultures in Swedish forests, and about plantations and other things, and I think that is wrong. So what I want to say is that private ownership and use are a guarantee that we will continue to have these high environmental values. It is not the state that will be a guarantor of new and high natural values or that we take care of natural values. Therefore, my question remains: should we protect twice as much forest as we do today?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-665	Mr President, I would like to I believe that private ownership is important in order to create a variation in forestry. There is also a prerequisite: with a greener forestry policy we will be able to have greater variation. We will be able to get more foresters who, like John Widegren, invest extra in deciduous forests, to ensure that forests continue to be used for forest grazing and that natural pastures will become part of agricultural activities. I think it is extremely important to increase knowledge of this particular issue. When it comes to private ownership being a guarantee that it will be a good thing, all the research and all the studies we have today show that this is not true. In fact, we have an erosion of ecosystems, not only at the genetic and species level, but also at an overall system level. This is also one of the reasons why the Forest investigation proposes that the mountain forest should be protected in a long, continuous area of 100 km, from Dalarna up to Norrbotten. The climate benefits of forests are very important, but biodiversity is also very important. I and the Green Party believe that we in Sweden must live up to the international conventions that exist regarding the protection of biodiversity.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-668	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party, together with the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Liberals, has reached a substantive political agreement, the so-called January Agreement. There are two points in this agreement that are closely linked to what we are debating today, namely forestry policy, and that is paragraphs 26 and 27. However, these points have several sub-points, so actually there are many more forest points than many think. The first point starts with the words: "Secure and strengthen private ownership" and it states that legal certainty for landowners and companies should be strengthened and that financial compensation should be provided to landowners for restrictions on ownership and use to the extent that they are entitled to. The appropriations for payments for protected land shall be sufficient for this purpose. It also states that the national forest programme will be developed to further promote a growing forest industry and sustainable forestry. The programme will be based on the two production and environmental objectives of the Forest Protection Act. Particular focus shall be placed on good conditions for entrepreneurship in the forestry sector. A very important point in the January agreement is that the responsible authorities should be given the task of proposing a new and uniform way of counting protected land. The mission to review this has gone to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which will report back before the summer. My ambition and that of the Center Party is that Sweden should use the same international standard method that most other countries in the EU use. If we were to count like Germany and England, we would go from being the worst in the European Union to being the best in the European Union in terms of nature protection. The January agreement stipulated that the extended key biotop inventory should be stopped, and so did the latter. In the Forest investigation, the legality of the key biotop inventory has been questioned, and we will get back to what it can mean. Mr President, I would like to A review of the Species Protection Regulation is also included in the January Agreement. It is currently under way and will be finalized on 10 June this year. For us in the Center Party, it has been important that the right to compensation is clarified through the investigation. I will mention the sentence in the January agreement that resulted in what is popularly called the Forest Investigation – some believe it is a property rights investigation, but it says nowhere in the January agreement. The sentence is as follows: a study is added on strengthening property rights, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for soil protection, and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. This sentence then became 22 pages of an investigation directive, and it in turn resulted in a report from the Forest investigation of 1 261 pages – perhaps 1 264 pages, if you count the last ones. The forest investigation has had great ambitions to solve all the conflicts in the forest, and there are about fifty proposals in the investigation. Many suggestions are really good, and some others are less good. My focus and that of the Center Party is to implement what is stated in the January agreement, namely to strengthen property rights and increase legal certainty. At the moment, we are waiting for the approximately 190 referrals to submit their replies within eight days – by 30 April at the latest. Since the Center Party is negotiating forestry issues with the government and the Liberals, we have a special opinion in this report explaining why we are not pursuing our political positions in this report but rather doing so through the January agreement. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like to highlight some of our motions in the report for those who are watching and listening to understand what forest policy issues the Center Party is pursuing in addition to property rights and the right to use its forests. Since the current forestry legislation came into force in 1993, when the detailed regulation of the forest ceased and we instead got what we call freedom under responsibility, most things have improved in the forest, as we have also heard several people testify. This shows that Sweden has the ability to conduct long-term and sustainable forestry, and therefore the regulatory framework must be designed to enable an increased, long-term and sustainable use of forest raw materials to continue. The focus of forest management legislation will continue to be based on equal goals between sustainable production that produce good returns and the maintenance of biodiversity. Sweden should seize the potential of the Swedish forest for bio-based inputs. In Sweden there is technical excellence and a solid infrastructure. Together, this creates good conditions for increasing the share of bio-based inputs and products and thus replacing a lot of fossil alternatives. To make this possible, a national strategy and action plan for a competitive bioeconomy is needed, clarifying the necessary concrete measures and instruments. In our constant search for regulatory simplifications, we in the Center Party are proposing that the lowest end-of-life age should be abolished. In Finland, the limit of the lowest end-of-life age has been removed. Sweden is an elongated country where the growth rate of forests varies considerably, and in some cases it may be rational to harvest stocks earlier than the law allows today. We believe that forest owners themselves can make the decisions related to forest management. Experience from Finland shows that this restriction is unnecessary and can be removed. The road map for a fossil-free Sweden in 2045 states that we need to harvest 50 million cubic metres more than today in order to deliver the required biofuels. Some – perhaps half – could come from the leftover frog in the forest, that is, branches and peaks, but we would also need to increase the growth of the forest. In order to increase the yield of biomass, measures are needed to promote the competitiveness of forestry. Forest fertilization on suitable lands is one such way. Today, fertilisation of forests is only permitted in central and northern Sweden. At the same time, fertilisation of forests, properly executed and on the right land, is the fastest and most profitable forest action we can take. There is no reason why this measure should be reserved for northern and central Sweden, where corporate forestry is dominant. It is of course important that the application of manure is carried out in the same responsible way as in agriculture to prevent eutrophication and nutrient leakage. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with a question that is rarely raised in forestry policy. Although the Center Party is pushing the question that forest owners must receive compensation if they are not allowed to farm their land, there are also other parameters. The forest has usually been used within a family or a family for generations. They have hunted, fished and picked berries in their forest. The forest is cultivated and passed on to the next generation. This emotional bond to the forest cannot be bought for money. This must be taken on board by the authorities and we politicians. If, through the work of generations, we have created a valuable forest that needs to be preserved, we should therefore be able to retain ownership of the forest, continue fishing and hunting and keep our hunting hut or perhaps set up a small cottage but receive a compensation, preferably through an annual lease, for not being allowed to use your forest or to use it with certain limitations. I believe that in this way we can build trust and trust between forest owners and the authorities that we politicians run.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-686	Mr President, I would like to In the Forest investigation, which we forest politicians talk about a lot nowadays, it is described that the market for quality timber amounts to several hundred million SEK per year. It is written that by retaining stocks in order to produce wood from older trees and create natural values by leaving parts of the stock for conservation, it is possible to create a viable alternative to timber production for the forest industry. I would like to ask Peter Helander a question about the fact that we see an increased interest among individual foresters in developing new, or new-old, forestry methods, ecosystem-based solutions and various forms of natural use, such as clean-up. How does the Center Party view the possibilities of developing clean forestry and new forms of farming that can, for example, result in this type of quality timber?
i-U9w5tFLcTF4MVSDRyKnCUL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question! I think it's great that forest owners develop their forest ownership in order to gain greater value both economically and in other ways. There's no forest owner who doesn't want quality timber for which you get a lot of money. I mean, as usual, forest owners are amazingly good at developing their own values in their own forests. I have no objection to the abandonment of forests; we need more quality timber. What creates quality timber, however, is the place where the forest grows rather than being overtaken. I heard Maria Gardfjell several times say that there is an increased interest in alternative farming methods. Great – let those who want to do this do it! The biodiversity that we have today is primarily created by family forestry. Biodiversity has been created that we should be proud of, especially after 1993, when the state stopped interfering with detailed regulation in the forest. We who are a little older remember that in the 70's there was a director on TV drinking hormoslyr to show that it was harmless. The forests were sprayed – the state decided that all leaves would be removed. Fortunately, there was private family forestry, which knew better and did not do what the state said. Since 1993, everything has improved in the forest. It may be even better; we can continue to work on that path. But I'm not a big friend of the fact that the state will decide in different ways how to manage the forest. I can see that Skogsstyrelsen has a lot of courses and offers on how to use the forest alternatively. It's great, and those who want to use this. But the state shouldn't decide that.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-694	Mr President, I would like to Peter Helander says that the state should not decide, but yet we stand here in Parliament discussing these issues. I also think, of course, that we should allow those forest owners who want to do something clean and so on to do it. But will they be allowed to do so if, as the Center Party is pushing for, the logging age is generally reduced? Does this not have a negative impact on the development of the market for quality timber and wood construction? Will it be possible to create opportunities for forest owners and forestry to develop better and more environmentally friendly methods if you go in with big efforts to fertilise the forest? The fertilisation of Swedish forests seems to me to be one of the very worst ideas in the forest debate at all. After all, commercial manure is by far the largest climate villain in agriculture. How, from a climate perspective, can we count on increasing the use of fertilisers in forestry as well? It doesn't make any sense to me. I wonder: how will the Center Party really promote a growing forest industry in which we take much more account of biodiversity and really also bring about new developments in production and better certification of forests?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-698	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Maria, for a number of questions. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to reduce my power over people; I think it is good if people are allowed to decide more for themselves. That's my entrance. It's not just that we want to lower the logging age. We want to remove the border completely. It does not serve any purpose. Experience from Finland shows that there are unbelievably few fellings of forests under the age of 70. And when they do, they do so for a rational purpose. Something may have happened, you want to change the forestry method or you might want to put a new tree. There are rational reasons. There are no forest owners who think that if you leave the forest for 30 more years, you get twice as much money, but you do this for rational reasons. It is not a rule that creates something else, but it is unnecessary and can be removed. As far as fertilisation is concerned, the Swedish Forest Board has 88 proposals on how to increase forest growth, but it mentions fertilisation as one of the main measures for increasing growth and for us to be able to take out these 50 million cubic metres of forest to create biofuels and arrive at a fossil-free 2045. Of course, one can be opposed to different things, but somehow we need to find the solution in order to use the forest to combat climate change. It is a problem that the Green Party has that it does not really know how to balance climate, farming and biodiversity. You shoot a little bit of the problem in front of you. I know that forest companies want to work with biodiversity, and we can increase biodiversity in the ordinary production forest. We'll keep working on that.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-703	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about forestry policy. I intend to focus on one single issue, which is very important for biodiversity. A majority in the committee has agreed, and the committee report thus contains an important announcement to the government from the Riksdag. The government will now give a mission to an authority or research institute to develop and implement a plant breeding project that will give our elms resistance to the elm disease and our ash resistance to the ash shoot disease with the aim of saving these two tree species from extinction. That is extremely pleasing. It would be very sad if these two species of trees were to go out of time. They've been with us for hundreds of generations. The measure is also extremely effective as an environmental measure. For if the trees were to disappear, about a hundred other species dependent on the trees would disappear as well. Although this may cost in the order of SEK 100 million before it is completed in 10 to 15 years, it is at least 1,000 times more effective per invested crown than the reserve provision now made in Swedish forests. The example of the calculation assumes that in the order of 10 billion has been spent over the last ten years on reserve provision, and it continues at an increasing rate. For the current provisions to be equally effective, they would have to save 5 000 new species every ten years. Moreover, the measure does not have any negative impact on other values, such as large-scale reserves provisions. The Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party point out that a forest damage centre should do the same. But a forest damage center is about other things and does not even have a budget that can even manage a project to save elm and ash. The description in the Government's press release about the damage center focuses on climate effects, bark drills and new pests. No serious scientist would say that elm disease is an effect of climate change. The vector, the almsplint drill, is domestic, and the fungus can survive in Swedish latitudes. It is with man's help that the fungus and the problem have come here. The control of new pests requires a completely different methodology from that required by established pests, such as the fungus of elm disease and the fungus of ash-spoken disease. There is no mention of resistance breeding, and that is what is crucial. That is what solves the issue instead of postponing extinction in the future. The government is still hoping that a combat work that saws down and takes care of sick elms will be enough to stop the death of elm. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was close to giving up when they announced in the past that it did not lead to success. Even then, the government did not lift its eyes to find a new method, but could only see the cutting down of sick trees as the only solution. This fact became very clear in an interpellation debate with Minister for the Environment Isabella Lövin last March, which everyone can take part in. The government doesn't understand the question. Individual researchers have understood the importance of finding a solution and not just postponing relentless fate and that the solution is about developing resistance to diseases. This has led to individual research efforts and projects and other initiatives, such as Skogforsk. That, of course, is not enough for such a large task. There has to be an actor who has a mission to hold all the pieces that are needed right up to the end goal, which can be as far away as 15 years in the future. The task is complex and also requires perseverance and flexibility in a way that only a government mission with a clear ultimate goal could provide. With the mission that the government must now put in place, there will also be the necessary resources. Over perhaps 15 years, a total of 100 million will be needed. The government's involvement will also allow for the necessary flexibility with a Plan B, with resistance through editing, to be sure of success. We only have a few years, and we only have one chance. Then it's over. There is no movement on the surface on this issue. The government must commit itself so that all the elements needed to save elm and ash are properly implemented. These include the collection of representative clones with a sufficiently broad genetic base, breeding for effective resistance in fields, crossings and crossings of existing stocks, planting in a biologically relevant way, delay measures for the extinction of key stocks and measures to ensure that the approximately one hundred species dependent on trees do not have time to die out before the completion of the project. After the vote in this area next week, the government will have to do this. I apologise, Mr President, for exceeding speaking time, but this is a day of joy.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-717	Mr President, I would like to Today, when we debate forests, it is also Earth's day. Let us then take a small look and see how things are in the Swedish environment. We know that we have both a species crisis and a climate crisis. And these are going on in parallel. We know that three-quarters of the red-listed species we have in Sweden are decreasing because we transform natural forests into monocultures. We know that an estimated 126 million tonnes are released because of this particular forestry, which some claim to be sustainable. We also know that the forestry we are engaged in is the reason why we have browned and poisoned water. What we are discussing today is a hot topic. There are several films, a series of debates in DN and court cases. And it is not only in Sweden that people are beginning to realize that this is not sustainable forestry. Even in The Guardian you can read about and see how forestry is conducted in Sweden, and it is not a flattering picture. Unfortunately, I also believe that it is in this House that the resistance to facts is greatest – despite clear evidence, despite clear pictures, despite clear facts. We have seen how different Sami villages have gone out and protested, said and made demands – not least now Muonio Samiby, which is being pushed hard by Sveaskog. We have also seen that 33 environmental organisations have written to the European Commission and alerted about the greenwashing that is going on to paint a good picture of Sweden's forestry. And speaking of greenwashing, Mr President, we have also heard in this House that biodiversity is only doing better and better. Among others, John Widegren of Moderates has claimed this, with an example of dead wood. So what does it look like? Does John Widegren know what he's talking about, or does he just repeat the same points that the forest industry has prepared? That's the question. According to the national forest staxation, what counts as dead wood is what is good as firewood. So they have stepped over rotting flames on the ground, more like counting sticks. It is documented that there used to be 70 - 100 cubic meters of dead wood per hectare. Now the figure is 3 cubic metres per hectare. It's a drastic decrease. What we also know is that this poor dead wood we owe to the storm Gudrun. This is therefore not at all in the right direction for biodiversity, on the contrary. There are more examples. We have also heard the Christian Democrats say that no one knows better than the landowner how the forest is to be managed and biodiversity is preserved. I am a biologist myself and know how complex it is with ecosystems and forest biology. Mr President, I would like to What we would have to do now in this House in order to take responsibility is first of all to take on board the facts, start from the forest investigation that exists and take on board the referrals. Then we need to resolve the conflicts that exist. We need protection, we need the conversion of forestry, we need legislation and we need to find financial incentives that really support the private landowner to take the steps towards decent and sustainable forestry. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-727	Mr President, I would like to It'll be a really short speech. I had the wrong papers in my room, so I said the wrong number on the reservation I wanted to approve. Reservation 10 should be it and nothing else.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-728	Mr President, I would like to Last year, the decade for biodiversity ended. It was announced by the UN and, unfortunately, when the decade was summed up, it turned out that none of the 20 sub-goals of the Aichi Convention were achieved. It is equally bad for the Swedish environmental quality objectives. They have been around for 20 years, but they too have not been achieved, but even have negative developments. This is ominous, especially in view of future generations, but also of the great importance that biodiversity has for nature's ability to withstand pressures and recover. Objectives in all honour, but they rarely have an effect if they are not clear, if they are not co-ordinated and if they are not systematically evaluated. New methods are now needed. New ways of working have to be done. According to the Moderates, this could be the use of socio-economic analyses. It is obvious that many of the proposals presented are sometimes not implemented because the costs are estimated to be too high in the short term. This may be the case, but the overall view and the long-term can show that the measures would be justified. Thus, with the help of socio-economic analyses, a more accurate picture can emerge. One example is when the Swedish Board of Agriculture looked at pollinating tambin's efforts in commercial cultivation. They were able to estimate the value of these at half a billion dollars a year, precisely because they contributed so positively to fruiting in apple trees, to oilseed production and other things. This type of socio-economic analysis or other instruments and incentives can make us aware of a reality that we must also relate to. Say what you want, but the Board of Agriculture's report at least got us Moderates to invest extra on beekeeping in our budget. Another method that we believe is important to lift is that the government must push the European Union to a much greater extent. Here we have an opportunity to have an evaluation method that allows for a more adapted protection status for species in the regions where favourable conservation status is achieved. However, little is happening. Here, as I said, the government should be on the Commission to get these measures. After all, it is possible to get measures taken. I am thinking of the Finnish MEP who asked the Commissioner a question about shooting cormorants, because the cormorants – regardless of species protection and bird directives – are such a problem, and the answer was yes. It is possible to disarm that population, given that it poses such major problems. Here we see that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has now also begun to offer opportunities even recommended counties to develop regional management plans. It's interesting, and it's important. For many believe that the race is over. A third approach could be to intensify work on invasive species. Two and a half years ago, Sweden – and I would like to say the government – received criticism for not having reported or started to fight several of the invasive species that are present in us. It's not working. Such inaction puts both the environment and the ecosystem in balance. At least now it has come to the point of putting some alien species on a national list. But it will take many years to somehow be raw on the flower lupine, park slide and the new species stone mound that has come into Sweden. Mr President, I would like to A week ago we debated chemicals issues here. I then highlighted the importance of a holistic approach and that we cannot unilaterally waive the use of chemical plant protection products. Then I exemplified with the cultivation of onions, which was disappearing from Sweden. Another example is the fight against the invasive species that I have just mentioned, i.e. park slide. I don't know if you've seen movies on how this plant grows through foundations and cement floors and basically gets anywhere it wants. Control forces are usually seen that are equipped to significantly disarm this plant. Even the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency now says that park slides have such enormous growth power that even if you top and remove all the above-ground parts you must then also treat with glyphosate, because this is such a big problem. At the same time, the government says that glyphosate must not be used in villa gardens. There is a risk that the spread may be even greater. Maybe we'll see park slide forests grow up. Now a few words about the management of predators. There are many issues in this report! Last year, a majority in the Parliament decided to give the government a mandate to review whether the hunting of the wolf licence could be extended in certain areas where there is a need and to develop new recommendations for protection hunting. Nothing has happened, and we are impatiently waiting to receive feedback from the government in this area. We would also like to add that we believe that it is important to have a common administration in relation to the Scandinavian wolf tribe, and that we really push it and do not keep these issues separate. The report also deals with the design of beach protection. It is an issue that involves both individuals and politicians to a great extent. It's not surprising, because there are a lot of negative effects. This is about private landowners who do not get the right to build on their land. These are municipalities that want to exploit fine areas – perhaps especially rural municipalities that have a need to attract new residents but are being counter-productive in this regard. It is also about farmers who want to be able to build wetlands and fire dams for their operations. We are now waiting, above all, for a proposal on the beach protection that is said to come in the autumn. It will be interesting to take part of it. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that the Moderates welcome the mission given by the Government to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to review the classification of protected land so that we do the same as in other countries. This was a rather comprehensive discussion of the previous debate too, so I do not need to go into it much. It goes without saying that this needs to be reviewed. It is not only us Moderates or we in this House who have paid attention to this, but SCB also considers that the Swedish model deviates. It's urgent, too. Last year the government received criticism from the Commission, which said that we in Sweden set aside far too few Agenda 2030 areas. The testimony from the government was that in December, on a board, 13 new Agenda 2030 areas were proposed and protection was increased in 21 existing areas. It is important how we protect and value our provisions in the same way as in other countries. The Moderates are a little concerned that we are now dedicating more land but may not have enough resources to manage it. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has noted that we have problems with this. If we do not follow this and see that the high natural values actually exist and that they are properly managed and managed, we have done our future generations a disservice. Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask for your consent to reservation l.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-748	Mr President, I would like to We are behind all our claims, but for time winning I only agree to our reservation number l9. Sweden is a populated country. It's a sparsely populated, yes, but it's not a wilderness. If we try to turn Sweden into a wilderness, great values will be lost, those associated with belonging, culture, context and belonging. Snorre Sturlasson describes in his book Heimskringla from the early 1200s how it is used to be in both Jämtland and Härjedalen, inhabited by Nordic-speaking residents. In all of Norrland there were also Sami and in the north Kväner who spoke Finnish dialects. Balancing the interests of these groups with those of the Crown became important to governments from the Middle Ages. It may be that Gustav Vasa's view of balancing would hardly be called democratic, but nevertheless he acknowledged the right of all these groups to live and work up at the mountains. We call on the government to do the same. The forest investigation now states that a large coherent protected area will be established that will affect agriculture and thus the open areas in the mountain area. The investigation, which in other parts emphasises the importance of consultation with landowners, here contradicts itself and its purpose. The coherence of the protected area means, of course, that from the outset one has the ambition not to take into account the different needs and opinions of landowners. Unfortunately, we see similar trends in the interior of Norrland from several county boards. Not only forestry but also tourist activities in the form of raspberry huts on the mountain are opposed. This seems to apply not least to the county administrative board of Jämtland. Sweden's policy must work in harmony with the needs of the local population, and it is the responsibility of the government and the authorities to balance the interests of different local groups fairly – reindeer husbands, yes, absolutely, but also the interests of the local population and visitors. It is becoming increasingly clear, as I said in the previous speech, that there are two very different perspectives on nature conservation and, in particular, on the protection of forests. One perspective is that the forest is threatened and must be saved from its owners. The second perspective is based on ownership and on the understanding that forest owners, profitable forestry and a profitable forest industry are prerequisites for a good forest condition and therefore also for good conservation measures. Mr President, I would like to We advocate nature conservation primarily through gentle care, very much with agreements between the state and the owner. I have already pointed out that the combination of agriculture and forestry in parts of the mountain area has a very old history. The further north and west you come in Sweden, the more important is forestry in the farmer's economy. Agriculture in the hinterland of Norrland is also of great importance for biodiversity. If fields and meadows disappear, the species that have been there for a very long time will disappear. The landscape is impoverished, and it becomes more uniform. Anyone who visits Sweden by car can, in all honesty, see enough forest. It feels like an oasis every time you get into a cultivated area. Even I think that though I grew up in a forest landscape – the same as Malin Larsson, by the way. I find it hard to believe that tourism to the mountain areas would not suffer from further restrictions on forest and. agriculture. In fact, the nature available also requires forest roads, and it is forestry that keeps them going. Our policy on nature conservation and biodiversity must have different groups of local people and their land use in mind. Sustainability is not only about ecology but, as you know, also about the economy and social opportunities to use forests. Mr President, I would like to The few forest species that died out in Sweden lived mainly in environments dependent on older forms of human use of land, not least in southern Sweden and where there were noble leaf forests. The management of such habitats is important and can be achieved through management agreements with the owners who can help save far more species than the surface huge protected areas proposed. There is currently a damaged trust in county boards, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency that needs to be rebuilt. This is because so many examples of run - over landowners have been published in specialist magazines. That is why we need to formulate a better rural policy here in Parliament with people at its centre and not only nature – but of course also it. More efforts are needed to save biodiversity in the Baltic Sea. On these issues, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture is usually united, including the Swedish Democrats. In the long term, we hope that the EU rules will allow more consideration to be given to local and national coastal fishing with the aim of creating better conditions for local fishing communities, with the tourism and other income that this can bring. The European Commission has proposed that 10% of EU territory be strictly formally protected. Even hunting or fishing would not be allowed to take place in the areas concerned. There's a lot to say about that. I'll sum it up with: No! Hunting and fishing in our sparsely populated country are important activities for the local population, but they also form the basis for tourism. They are important parts of what is called social sustainability. We are surprised that the Commission has even tabled this proposal. The conclusion of this, as I said at the outset, is that Sweden's policy on nature conservation and biodiversity must be based more than today on the population and primarily on those who use the land. It goes without saying that the principle of subsidiarity of the European Union must be respected if we want to develop nature conservation with the welfare of the local population in mind. Flat-rate decisions in Brussels on, for example, fishing bans or too rigid species protection and bird directives are simply not acceptable and are counterproductive. We must act together with other countries, not least forest-rich ones, in order to influence Europe on these issues.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-764	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I and the Center Party support all of our requests in the report, but for time to come, I am in favour of only reservation 17. The report on nature conservation and biodiversity contains many different elements. Some things we deal with in the January agreement, such as the species protection regulation, beach protection and some other things. That is why I will not touch them very much. However, the report also contains a number on predators and game management and the management of other animals, such as cormorants and seals. I am going to talk a lot about game management. We have 16 requests in the report, and many of them relate to game management. With a sustainable hunting and game conservation policy in essence, there are great opportunities to develop activities around hunting. It is partly about experiences in different forms, and partly about developing game meat as a product. A credible predatory policy requires active management with strong regional influence that strengthens confidence in predatory policy and takes into account the people who live and work in predatory areas. The Center Party believes that the foundation for a well-functioning game management is a well-organised and active hunting corps. Swedish hunters and their organisations have a great deal of commitment and a central role in the long-term sustainable management of both wild and predatory strains and forestry. The role of politics is to ensure that there are good conditions for the hunting corps to operate and contribute to sustainable management with less regulatory and effective decision-making processes. Therefore, I and the Center Party believe that it is deeply unfortunate that the hunting and game conservation mission that the Swedish Hunters' Association has had since 1938 is now a thing of the past. The money for the hunting and game conservation mission comes from the hunters themselves through the state hunting card, which in future will cost 400 SEK per year. The mandate of the Hunters' Association has included comprehensive information, information on the practical hunting and management of game, game surveillance, elk management, game and traffic and professional hunting training. I and others of me believe that the government could have made a different interpretation of the mission than they did. A position could have been taken that it is a contribution that does not need to be procured, and then the EU would have had to test it. I think they've given up way too easily. If one had taken a position that it is a contribution that does not need to be procured, we could have been in a different situation. Now we have ended up in a situation where hunters' own money going to the Wildlife Fund may end up with organisations that oppose hunting. Of course, everyone understands how upsetting this is for all hunters. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to point out that the Center Party has been pushing for many years for us to see a game agency responsible for game issues. The aim is for the Authority to deal effectively with the shortcomings in game management that we are seeing today. The authority responsible for hunting must function, be competent and have the confidence of the hunting community. Today, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is often seen as a counterpart and not as being on the side of hunters, hunting or rural areas. The fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been tasked with purchasing parts of the hunting and game conservation mission is not good from this point of view. During the time of the Centre Party in government, three different models of increased co-management were introduced at regional level. They were elk management groups, game management delegations and the national biungulate game council. The basic idea of these models was to increase the dialogue between stakeholders in game management, thereby increasing regional cooperation and influence. In 2017, the S-MP government changed the composition of delegations and appointed more members from conservation organisations and nature and eco-tourism companies, without having carried out an evaluation of this. That maneuver is critical of the Center Party. As things stand today, the sharp decisions are not taken in the game management delegations, but are often taken at the central level. Members of delegations feel powerlessness and lack real influence in decision-making processes. This is contrary to the intentions of the 2013 parliamentary decision, which considered regional anchoring to be crucial in strengthening public confidence in predator management. The mandates of the Wildlife Management Delegations therefore need to be reviewed in order to strengthen local and regional influence. Mr President, I would like to Broad trust in hunting and game policy is an important prerequisite for policy to have an effect in practice. This presupposes that those who live and work in areas with a lot of wild game and large predators have influence over the administration. One way of establishing such confidence is to continuously evaluate current predator management from a holistic perspective, analysing and documenting socio-economic and regional impacts. When it comes to the Swedish wolf administration, we politicians must take into account both the conservation of the wolf tribe in Sweden and what the combined predatory pressure means for people's opportunities to live and operate in predatory areas. The wolf moves across large areas, often across national borders. Therefore, the Center Party wants the wolf to be able to co-manage with Norway. The total number of wolves in Sweden and Norway totals well over 450 individuals. The Center Party does not believe that wolf management can be improved by focusing solely on the number of wolves, but also by reducing concentration in the areas where it is greatest. Today, the majority of Sweden's wolves are in the Central Swedish administrative area. The number in this area should not be more than 170 individuals to reduce the level of conflict. The Center Party also believes that increased licence hunting is needed to achieve sustainable wolf management. A parliamentary majority has also voted in favour of an announcement to the government in this regard. When attacks by wolves occur, despite preventive measures, protective hunting shall be possible. A year ago, the Center Party presented an initiative in committee with a number of proposals for more effective and simplified protection hunting. It was supported by a majority in the Riksdag, and an announcement is now on the table of the government. Mr President, I would like to In January 2020, the Supreme Court delivered its judgment in the so-called Girjas case between Girja Sameby and the State. The dispute had then been going on in court since May 2009. The Supreme Court approved the Sami village's action and ruled that Girja Sami village has exclusive rights in small game hunting and fishing with sole right of disposal in the Sami village area. However, the judgment applies to hunting and fishing rights not all Sami villages but only to Girja's Girja village. But the basic conclusions are general and can be applied to other Sami villages. However, in order for other Sami villages to be granted the same rights, the matter must be examined individually in a court of law. More lengthy legal proceedings are not desirable. The issue should therefore be decided at a political level and not in a court of law.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-780	Mr President, I would like to Most of our motions in this report are dealt with through simplified preparation, and that is why I will focus on those who are now on the table for decision. Since 2007, the Species Protection Regulation has been in force. In recent years, the authorities have interpreted this regulation more and more extremely. The Species Protection Regulation prohibits, inter alia, the deliberate interference of wild birds and other animals listed in the Regulation and the damage or destruction of their breeding areas or resting places. The problem is that bird breeding facilities are virtually everywhere in the forest. Birds and other animals are disturbed in some way in forestry. On the basis of the Species Protection Regulation, as it is written, it is therefore possible for an authority to stop virtually all forestry measures. In May 2020, the Government appointed a special investigator to review the Species Protection Regulation. The Christian Democrats welcome the investigation to be presented on 10 June, unless otherwise stated. We welcome it because we have called for action on several occasions. The Directives could have been clearer in adjusting the Species Protection Regulation to meet the requirements of the original EU directives without gold plating. The protection of birds in the Regulation should be changed from an individual perspective to a species perspective. The landowner's right to fair compensation must also be ensured. The state should see the private forest owners as co-players rather than as counter-players. Often it is precisely through the long-term management of individual forest owners that high natural values have been created and maintained. At present, those who have forests with high natural values are punished. Many landowners see themselves forced to clear or fell in order to prevent the emergence of protected environments, contrary to what should be the government's intention. Mr President, I would like to In order to comply with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity in the Nagoya Agreement, Sweden will protect 17% of the total land and freshwater area. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the authority that defines Sweden's goal fulfilment. Its assessment includes only the so-called formal protection, which means Natura 2000 sites, nature reserves, national parks and biotop protection areas. This means that a total of 14.5 per cent of the country's area is considered to be protected from this definition, and that in turn means that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sees, based on its interpretation, the need to protect additional forests in Sweden with formal protection. However, the Government and the Riksdag have decided that in addition to formal protection, voluntary provisions, agreed protection, low-productive forests and forestry's general consideration should also be included. With this inclusion, the protected area amounts to more than 22%. To achieve the UN Convention's Nagoya goal there are also additional instruments that can be credited, including beach protection and national interests for nature conservation and outdoor life. When these are combined and take into account any overlaps, the proportion of protected areas in Sweden's total land and freshwater area amounts to 58%. Based on this, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should revise the strict interpretation. The government should ensure that this happens. We have now been told that a new mission in this area has been presented. We really hope so. According to the Christian Democrats, this is an example of gold plating. Gold plating occurs when national authorities overinterpret international requirements and objectives in a way that leads to increased costs, unnecessary regulatory constraints and competitive disadvantages. For Swedish forestry, the gold plating of protected land means that further productive forest land will have to be used for protection. In the light of actual conditions regarding the amount of land protected from felling, there is absolutely reason to review the calculation bases for protected forests and to allow the Nagoya Agreement's scope for definitions of protected land to be indicative. Let me go from the woods to those who live there. When a competent authority grants protection hunting of any species, it is important, from several points of view, that the animals responsible for the damage can be killed as soon as possible. This is not about hunting in the real sense, but about harm minimisation by killing the animal or animals that do the damage. In order to achieve this and to achieve rapid closure, more facilities should be allowed. Unfortunately, there are currently both limitations and ambiguities in the legislation regarding several technical aids that should be used for the protection of predators. The regulatory framework for game cameras has been relaxed, but in the case of decided protection hunts, they should be able to be relaxed even more in order to both reduce the burden on the victim or those affected and facilitate the hunters who have been assigned the task. Today, with pictures from a game camera, animals are found to be in a guarded area, but the information provided by the cameras must not be acted upon. The Parliament should therefore decide as soon as possible to clarify the legislation so that it is allowed to act directly on images from a game camera. This should also include the authorisation to use motor vehicles in order to quickly get out to the area where the animals are located. Mr President, I would like to As mentioned earlier, there is a protection hunt to prevent ongoing or imminent damage. Therefore, it should not be of importance what genetics or herd belonging to an animal have, especially since we today meet the migration requirements set by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. In this connection, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation 18. Today, in parts of Norrland, there are problems with large bear tribes. Therefore, the licence hunt should be extended. Many of the bears that are shot are shot during protection hunting in the reindeer grazing land. This means that it is considered that there is no scope for licence hunting in other parts. For example, Sweden has a benchmark for favourable conservation status for bears of 1,400 individuals. Today we have up to 3,000 bears. In many areas the bear causes great damage. Nevertheless, hunting is kept at such a low level that the bear population today amounts to twice the amount of favourable conservation status, and at the same time the spring protection hunt is extensive. The bear tribe should therefore be further reduced by licence hunting. Last year, the Parliament voted through a Christian Democratic motion to extend the hunt for wolves in areas with high concentrations. As with many other announcements, the government does not deliver what has actually been decided by the Riksdag. My own county of Värmland, which has almost a quarter of the Scandinavian wolf tribe, was granted permission in winter for a license hunt of six individuals in a territory. According to the latest inventory, which is now complete, the wolf population has increased even more. We are now up to 395 individuals. That's 30 more than in the previous inventory. If we are to get some kind of acceptance for both the wolf and the predator management, the strain must be reduced, and this must be done by licensing the larger areas. Large parts of Sweden's countryside are waiting for delivery. However, in view of the recent breakdown of the so-called general mission, the Wildlife Fund and the fact that Parliament's decision on the establishment of a game agency is once again being opposed, hope for hunting issues is not very great. The issue of the general mission and the Wildlife Fund will come back to me in an interpellation debate with Prime Minister Nilsson, and I am not going to raise any more about it now. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something about another issue in which Sweden's countryside is waiting for delivery, namely the protection of the shore. The survey, which was presented in December last year, proposed a more differentiated and locally adapted beach protection. That's good, but not enough. Legislation is needed on the basis that people and businesses contribute to making beaches accessible. Outdoor life is not much worth in a dead area. With a dead countryside, the city will not live either, for then no one will deliver the goods that the city needs.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-800	Mr President, I would like to I only support Liberals' reservation number 3. But, of course, we support all our proposals. I will talk a lot about nature conservation, watercourses and wetlands. However, the report is very broad and also contains issues relating to seals, cormorants, predatory policy and much more. It is also debates that we are conducting in other contexts and in relation to other reports. Madam President, I would like Wetlands are important in climate policy, but also in nature conservation. Restoring previously drained and overgrown wetlands has major positive effects on both climate and environment. Wetlands benefit many bird species and amphibians and counteract eutrophication by catching nutrient leakage of nitrogen and phosphorus. Efforts in watercourses are important to protect marine life and to create good habitats for fish. Many rivers have lost their natural change when they have been straightened out, for example, in the agricultural landscape. It provides bad environments for fish, as they do not offer either shelter or stalls. By replanting vegetation in the beach zone, water bodies can provide shade that affects water temperature, provides protection and contributes to insects. Water slides can provide home and food for many organisms that the fish eat by having suitable plant material. Dead wood, branches and leaves usually end up completely naturally in watercourses, but in the case of fellings or ginnings of watercourses the supply can disappear and biodiversity decrease. It is important that conservation regulations do not hamper the possibility of action in aquatic environments in a reserve. Recreating access to wetlands and establishing waterways would be a good thing for many fish species, not least because wetlands provide a more even supply of downstream water. Coves grow again due to eutrophication, which negatively affects marine life through lower water flows and oxygenation. Recreating wetlands, creating access to wetlands and establishing waterways can contribute to increased biodiversity. Madam President, I would like Eel grass meadows are also very important. It is an important habitat for many species. Eel grass meadows dampen waves and streams, bind bottom sediments and protect the beaches from erosion. Water quality is affected, and water can become clearer by eel grass taking nutrients out of the water, reducing the effects of eutrophication. Large amounts of coal are also taken up and stored in eel grass meadows, which helps to reduce climate change. The main cause of the loss of eel grass meadows is considered to be eutrophication in combination with other factors. Eel grass needs a lot of light, and in eutrophication the water becomes cloudy and the light limited. Development through marinas, marinas and dredged docks also adversely affects eel grass. The most important measure to protect fish stocks is to protect remaining eel grass meadows. In order to prevent further reduction, several measures are needed to improve the environmental conditions of eel grass. Eutrophication in the sea must be reduced and the stocks of large predators in ecosystems need to be increased. Measures are needed to protect, preserve and restore our eel meadows. Madam President, I would like Another issue in the report concerns the possibility of nature reserves. I note specifically a reservation that raises a number of questions in me and is written by the Moderates. It is a question of criticism of the nature reserves that are being set up. It is considered that municipalities abuse this possibility in order not to have to build housing. That is a very strange statement or assumption for me. Let me give you an example that shows the opposite. The example is Sweden's most densely populated municipality, with 6,032 inhabitants per square kilometre. If Sweden had as many inhabitants per square kilometre as the municipality of Sundbyberg, we would have a population of well over 2 1⁄2 billion. In Sweden, the average is 25 inhabitants per square kilometre. The sparsely populated municipality in Sweden has 0.2 inhabitants per square kilometre. How has it been possible to build so close in Sweden to the surface smallest municipality and also continue to build so much housing? Yes, it is because nature reserves have also been protected and established. The acceptance for building close and much has also been based on the protection of areas such as the semi-urban forest and lakes. This creates a habitat for people in very densely populated cities. But it also creates resistance to climate change, because with the heat, dust and noise nature helps to improve the living environment. I believe that there is no contradiction between building much and close and, at the same time, caring for nature. On the contrary, it is part of an important development in society where it can also be seen for climate reasons as important to build quite closely. That's why I'm very surprised at that particular reservation. There are obstacles, but they are of a completely different nature. For example, it is a question of legislation and infrastructure deficiencies. There we really have questions to work with in order to continue to build. Madam President, I would like Nature and the environment have many dimensions that are important from a citizen's perspective. Nature provides opportunities for nature experiences and recreation, and nature's biodiversity plays an important role. The right of public access, the protection of shores, the protection of biodiversity, the protection of endangered species and the protection of forests and land are all important for the effective functioning of the management concept. The idea of stewardship is that today's generation manages for future generations and for the future. This means that the inheritance we leave behind should have better status than what we inherited.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-816	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report as a whole. Biodiversity is declining globally, and 1 million species are at risk of extinction from the face of the earth. In Sweden, the number of species at risk of disappearing has increased by 11% over the last five years. Biodiversity is something complex, and it can be many different types of diversity or variation. Maintaining biodiversity can be as much about saving old farm breeds of pets as saving rare beetles and marine ecosystems. The main threats to biodiversity today are the destruction of species' habitats and other human influences. Well-being and viable ecosystems are also important for the human environment. Therefore, we propose a total of 2.2 billion in investments in Swedish nature. The initiative will contribute to halt species extinction and include measures to protect and manage valuable nature and strengthen the work for clean seas and waters and more. Madam President, I would like This is a report with many different parts. There are many important investigations going on which concern both the areas we are debating here today. The species protection investigation is one of those set up to ensure a regulatory framework that can effectively and legally protect endangered species. It should also be made clear to landowners if and when they are entitled to compensation. Current species protection has been criticised for not being sufficiently applicable, effective and legally secure, and legal cases of species protection in forestry have created uncertainty. Madam President, I would like It is the year of outdoor life this year, and it can help to raise awareness of the values of outdoor life and the valuable right of public access that we so many times take as self-evident. The National Parks and Sweden's many nature reserves are important both as a tool for protecting valuable natural areas and for outdoor activities and tourism. It is gratifying that more people now find their way out to our beautiful national parks and nature reserves and discover new visitors' pearls in our beautiful country. But when more people are out in nature, our hiking trails and nature are torn. The government has previously made an investment in nature-related jobs that are ongoing, and now it is proposed to invest in new nature-related jobs for young people. We can make it possible for young people to find a job by creating employment across the country through, for example, the management of nature reserves, the rehabilitation of hiking trails and the fight against invasive alien species. Madam President, I would like The lovely spring is here, and the spring signs appear a little everywhere. Unfortunately, we can also see littering as a boring spring sign when the debris thawed under the snow. It is a major social problem, and it has increased during the pandemic when more people are out in nature. Both preventive measures are needed to raise awareness of litter and its effects, as well as increased cleaning efforts. Plastic waste and other debris damage animals and nature, destroy the oceans and help create a sense of insecurity in our cities. Therefore, the government is now investing a total of SEK 20 million to reduce litter during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Soon spring turns to summer and the ditches are filled with colorful lupins. It's beautiful, you might think, but it's treacherous. One of the greatest threats to biodiversity is the invasive alien species, such as lupins but also raccoon dogs, giant locos or the known killer snail, which many fight against in their gardens. They can cause great harm to human and animal health, crops, fish stocks, infrastructure and damage to protected species. As early as 2018, the government presented several new legislative proposals on invasive species. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now actively working on the issue. Sweden has an obligation under EU law to take action against certain identified invasive alien species. Several of these are in circulation but still possible to combat. This is why an investment of SEK 50 million is proposed here to strengthen the work on the fight against fraud. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about something that often arouses many emotions, namely predators, cormorants and seals. The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and royal eagles should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the Nature Conservation Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. The government is now also looking at enabling greater local efforts to reduce the number of vargrevir in some parts of the country. At the same time, we must ensure that we live up to our international commitments. The growth of cormorants and seals in recent years has reduced fish stocks, causing great material and economic damage. This applies to coastal professional fishing as well as recreational fishing. The cormorants leave behind ghost-like environments and thus also have a negative impact on both residents and tourists. In the proposal for changed hunting times submitted to the Government by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, protection hunting on the initiative of individuals is now included as one of the proposals. Several of our county administrative boards now also make regular decisions on protection hunting on cormorants. Last year it was also decided to license hunting on grey seals. Unfortunately, however, only about half of the assigned grey seals fell during the licence hunt. At the moment, a scientific evaluation of the licence hunting on grey seal is ongoing, and it should be reported by 1 June this year. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has recently decided to allow hunting on chubby seals and cochar seals during this year and the beginning of next year. The government is aware that seal hunting is time consuming and associated with costs for the individual hunter. Therefore, the Government of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Control has decided that SEK 3 million may be allocated to the county administrative boards to be used for compensation for handling costs of grey seals that have been shot. Much is being done, and there is a lot going on that we will have to continue to debate in the future. There is still a need to protect soils, forests and marine areas to ensure biodiversity, to stop invasive species, to ensure essential ecosystem services and to enable a vibrant outdoor life. We will do what is necessary to achieve our common goals to protect and manage our nature, our animals and plants and our seas to be handed over to the next generations. It is only together that we can achieve these goals.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-834	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your speech. I certainly agree with most of what Malin Larsson mentioned in her speech. However, it can be questioned that we are on our way to summer when we look right now here in Stockholm. But there's another five. I won't spend any more time on the weather. In my speech, I mentioned an announcement that we adopted here in Parliament last year. Some of the other colleagues have also mentioned this. It is important that the hunting of wolves should be extended in the areas where the concentration is high. At the end of her speech, Malin Larsson mentioned almost a little in passing that things are being done in this area. I asked for delivery on this issue. I would simply like to ask Malin Larsson: What else is going on? Can Malin Larsson tell us this in more concrete terms?
i-XaDGZbWXHCVhNdo8YUJEep	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! The question of the wolf, the size of the wolf tribe and everything else concerning the wolf is often debated in this House. There is a directive on species and habitats that we obviously have to deal with. It is at European level. Each Member State has to deal with it and live up to it. The government has worked actively to try to make it better. It is about us being able to live up to the Species and Habitats Directive while still having wolves in Sweden. For example, we have previously introduced an urgency requirement for protection hunting so that decisions can be made quickly. When the damage occurs, you need to get the protection hunting decision very quickly so that you can kill the animals that cause damage. We have also ensured legal certainty in the proceedings by setting up an administrative court. Previously it was spread out on several, but now one in Luleå has this. As I mentioned earlier, the government is currently looking at the minimum levels and removing them from the county level and instead putting them in the predator management area. Normally, decisions are taken as closely as possible in small areas. But many of the vargrevir are on county boundaries and so on. It's causing trouble. Therefore you look at it to try to solve it in the best way and seriously try to work with sparing out the vargrevir, which is very close in some places. I very much hope that we can move forward in that work and find good solutions.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-842	Madam President, I would like I absolutely share that hope with Malin Larsson – there is no doubt about it. Now there are HD rulings in Norway, Sweden and Finland that the hunt for wolves is sustainable, so we have to continue with it. Actually, we have court cases on that now. As far as protection hunting is concerned, Malin Larsson mentioned that we need to move forward urgently, and in my speech I raised several proposals which I think you Social Democrats should take with you when working on the design of this. Malin Larsson also mentioned geography. There we see a great challenge, not least in my county of Värmland. We share many vargrevir with Norway. This gives us a great deal of trouble when we are going to get some kind of hunting. I have had debates with former Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, on this issue of border territory. Unfortunately, though, it was not very exciting to pick up there. I guess that wasn't much of a willingness to understand. I would really urge Malin Larsson and the government to think about how we will get a management in Scandinavia, because if we are to comply with the Berne Convention, our predator tribes will be managed across rich borders if they live that way, and they do this. We have a Scandinavian wolf tribe, and so are our researchers. I would therefore urge the government to contact the Norwegian Government once again in order for us to have a Scandinavian administration of the wolf tribe. It is a must for us to get an administration worthy of the name and not least for us to ease the pressure, for example in Värmland where the pressure has been very high for a very long time. Almost a quarter of Scandinavia's vargrevir affects Värmland in some way, so the pressure is great. I would like to thank Malin for what is being done, but it can of course always be done more.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-849	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the questions! We have discussed wolf issues frequently and will probably continue to discuss them in the future. Other predators were also mentioned here today, otherwise it is usually the wolf that is mentioned. There is work going on with predator management areas here at home in Sweden. I mentioned the county boundaries, but it's clear that sometimes the vargrevir is also very close to the national borders. I hear what Mr Ottosson says and take it with me. I also know that this discussion has taken place in this House. I would like to take this opportunity to mention that the government is also doing other things, for example with regard to the socio-economic aspects. Living close to wolves can make a mess of things. Therefore, the government has raised the ceiling for compensation in the event of damage from 80 to 100 per cent. It's great that you always have your ear to the ground, listen and try to make decisions that benefit those who live out there.
i-WNX4q9aNai3wz8padwKUBr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for an interesting speech! There are many issues within the remit of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture in particular, where we are fairly in agreement. Nevertheless, I would just like to underline some of what Malin Larsson said and would like some more concrete answers. Since these are difficult questions to put into practice, there are often quite sweeping wordings. Malin Larsson said among other things: We will do what we can to achieve the biodiversity goals. In my speech, I mentioned that the UN target, the Aichi Convention, was not reached even though it ran over ten years. In Sweden, we have had national environmental quality targets for 20 years and see a negative development. These are objectives which are, in principle, included in all 16 environmental quality objectives. That is why we now need to look at other ways of dealing with this. Then you have to think new, outside the box somehow. I put forward our proposals from the Moderates to agree to socio-economic analyses to increase value and to invest in invasive species, where the government received criticism from the EU two and a half years ago, and also to work more towards the EU when it comes to the new evaluation methods. Malin Larsson, can we hear something more concrete about what we should do to actually achieve the biodiversity goals?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-857	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Malmberg for the questions. These are major cross-border issues, including this one. Biodiversity is a complex subject, which I also mentioned in my speech, and it can be so many different types. Above all, ecosystems are about the need to protect and protect the habitats of species. There, cooperation at EU level is incredibly important. Betty Malmberg mentioned the invasive species. Here the government is really doing a lot and has been doing it ever since 2018, as I mentioned. In her speech, Betty Malmberg also mentioned some examples of species. I was then googling, because it was a little new to me, so you always learn something in these debates. It's so very interesting that we can always learn new things to take with us, and I think that's the most important thing. We also have research as an incredibly important tool for us to be able to make the right decisions in the future.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-860	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your answer! I'm sorry if I push Malin Larsson a little bit to get something more concrete. But it's because I feel a frustration that we don't reach anymore. And I think we share that, because many people think that next to the climate issue, biodiversity is a matter of destiny for the planet. It is therefore important that we see that progress is actually being made on these issues. In the last debate, Madam President, the forest was debated. You rallied a little bit over an announcement that exists about the elm and ash shot disease. Staffan Eklöf, the Swedish Democrats, made a brilliant exposé about what this is actually about. The government and government advocates in MJU say this is unnecessary. But we must take this problem seriously, because there are 250 species in an elm and half of them are on the Red List. This is not about elephants or some kind of seal, but it is mosses, fungi and insects. And when it comes to the box and the ash shot disease, we have the same problem. Therefore, it is not possible to simply dismiss and say that we do not care. If there are over 125 species, one must surely react somewhere and think that it is good that we do something to get to grips with the elm and ash shot disease.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-863	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Malmberg for the question. I would like to say that it is the opposite. It's not like we don't care. As I said, I think you are breaking open doors, Betty Malmberg, because this is exactly what the government has already put in the resources to do. The work is already started and ongoing. It is not only the elm and ash spore disease, but also a wide range of other things that must be combated, and I mentioned spruce bark drills. What species we will have in the future we do not know yet. This work has been started, and money has been added. We also think that we should work on this, but to point out exactly what we leave to the experts. For this work, long-term plans have been developed and a centre established. This work is therefore already under way, which is why I am highlighting it in the debate. I hope that we have a consensus on this and that we have to work with more species. It must also be built on with new knowledge, because we do not know what to expect in the future. It is therefore incredibly important to work long-term with these issues.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-867	Madam President, I would like The debate gives the impression that this is a policy area in which we are very much in agreement. But I would like to say that, precisely in relation to biodiversity, we have the greatest conflicts in Swedish environmental policy. When the Moderates are upset that we are no longer reaching, my message to them is that we absolutely must do more socio-economic analyses and see the value of nature. I welcome the fact that the Moderates do. Above all, however, we must welcome the EU policy that exists in relation to biodiversity, a policy that the Moderates so consistently say no to. The government has just announced that it wants to invest in jobs close to nature for young people, and it needs jobs in these Corona times when young people have a difficult situation in the labour market. Measures in the fields of nature conservation, outdoor life and biodiversity create a great many jobs in rural areas in particular. Any decision on the management of nature provides meaningful jobs. Every entrepreneur who invests in climate and biodiversity also contributes to more jobs. By investing in nature conservation, we are not only protecting nature and biodiversity. Resources can also be used to create better conditions for forest owners and landowners to invest in rural development. The Coronapandemia has caused many more people to find their way into nature. Ecotourism has great potential to grow in Sweden when more Swedes not only have to but also want to continue holidaying in Sweden. It is clear that we politicians need to listen more to scientists. Mistra has recently announced that they are now calling for research funding to analyse an important societal challenge: biodiversity linked to the economic system. Previous studies have shown that there is a lack of knowledge on how conservation measures can be implemented with broad social and political support. An international expert group has now been set up, and it is described that there is an initial understanding of biodiversity among capital owners and asset managers and that there is a great demand for tools and knowledge that can be used in business development. Therefore, knowledge is needed. The famous IPbe report shows that we have not only a climate crisis but also a natural and species crisis. Humanity depends entirely on nature for its survival. Research shows that we have failed fundamentally to understand it. New research will play a major role in preserving biodiversity in the future. I think it's a lot about modernising nature conservation and working as widely on biodiversity as we do on climate issues. Not many years ago, there were politicians in the Swedish parliament who questioned climate change. Today they are quite rare. But we still have politicians in the Swedish Parliament who question the environmental objectives and the protection of biodiversity. That will change, and the Green Party is the trailfinner. Work on organic compensation can be scaled up. Modernising nature conservation is also about developing methods for policy work, management, restoration and inventory. Natural inventories will be possible with a greater effort of modern methodology, AI, enhanced remote sensing and data processing. Together with biologists in the field, participating research and traditional inventory, the evidence for both public actors and companies will be much better. There is a need for a fair transition in biodiversity as well, and different environmental challenges need to be addressed in parallel. There are constant conflicts of interests where it may be a question of using nature to cope with the day's livelihood and at the same time preserve the environment in the long term. Research is needed here and that we raise our eyes and do not say that the climate is against biodiversity, because we are going to manage both climate and biodiversity. Madam President, I would like The sea is also part of our precious nature. The protection of sensitive shallow bays must be strengthened by directing human activities to specific locations and allowing only certain types of activities or no activities at all in sensitive areas. There is also a need for a restoration plan for our coasts. We also need to remind ourselves that the purpose of the beach protection is to provide long-term protection for our beaches and that it is a central part of our unique right of access to the world. We Swedes love our beaches. Despite beach protection rules, we can see a rapid rate of exploitation in areas that are already heavily exploited. In the Stockholm archipelago, just over 50 per cent of the shoreline is exploited, and along the Västerbotten coast it is 40 per cent. In 2018, a further 250 km of the Swedish coast was exploited, despite the protection of the shore. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management pointed out that 60% of spawning areas for fish have been destroyed due to exploitation and all piers and piers along the Swedish coast. This is serious. Beach protection rules are being discussed, but we must remember that beach protection is an important way to save the valuable nature along the coast and sea. Madam President, I would like In particular, we must protect the beach protection in our archipelagos, along our coasts, in densely populated areas and around our large lakes. We must work together to ensure that protection is strengthened. Small watercourses can have at least as much importance for plants and animals as for larger watercourses. Research on biodiversity clearly points to the need for more protected nature to preserve the habitats of plants and animals, not less. In this serious situation of biodiversity, we need robust beach protection. Climate adaptation is not one of the aims of beach protection, but it is an important effect of its existence. Climate change will mean more rain, more heavy rain and rising sea levels. Through the beach cover, we get a small extra life insurance policy. It's good to remember. Madam President, I would like It's been ten years since we got outdoor meals in Sweden. When the objectives were recently evaluated, it turned out that we lack a policy to achieve a good outdoor policy. It is a lot about the area of protection and management of nature, about restoration of valuable nature and about the fact that we have a local nature where people live. There is a need for more statistics and facts on urban nature, and we need good management of land and water. Community planning needs to take this area in a better way. We need to raise awareness of the right of public access, and we need to ensure that the role of schools in outdoor work is improved. Madam President, I would like This year, 2021, is the year of outdoor life. The air is clear. Although spring has been met with a slight setback today, I hope that many people will enjoy nature in the spring. Outdoor life gives life to the areas, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. It is not that outdoor life kills the areas.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-890	Madam President, I would like All parties here want a good environment where the species that exist today can live on. There is no political conflict between our parties. The differences lie in how much you want to invest in the environment in SEK, which methods you choose and especially how much you weigh into other values in your decisions. The three Conservative parties are particularly careful to weigh other values before making decisions. The Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats strive for a holistic approach where the effects of environmental decisions on the economy, welfare, rural areas, culture and other values are important to consider. It connects us three parties in a natural way. The result of this is that conservative parties' decisions often go less far in investing in costly environmental projects, but also that these parties are result-oriented and interested in the efficiency and adaptation of environmental measures. We know that otherwise something else or someone else will be affected at the other end. This insight also means that we are looking for measures with synergies, measures that benefit, for example, the environment, the economy and rural areas at the same time. It is, of course, a matter of degree differences, not a binary one-or-zero effect. I believe that this stems from philosophical differences between the parties and that one can place the parties of the Riksdag on a scale from duty ethics at one end to consistency ethics at the other end. Conservative parties are close to the consequential, realistic end. I have to say that we understand each other well and are easy to cooperate. Anyone who wants to know more about this can read my article in the online magazine Samtiden. Biodiversity is intertwined with all the agricultural industries, and therefore many biodiversity and nature conservation measures are contained in other reports. In the forest debate a moment ago, there was a good example of an environmental measure that is effective. Saving elm and ash from extinction with a plant breeding project results in a cost of 1 – 2 million per species saved from extinction, because trees are the prerequisite for about a hundred other species. Other examples of effective action include: 中 to act for biologically functioning forest expanse environments, which have an important biological function and which also have a range in the landscape that makes them interesting as spreading corridors 中 to focus on enabling the conservation of rare, distinctive natural habitats 中 taking hold of invasive alien species on time, before they have spread too much and become more difficult to combat, including engaging village teams and other local associations 中 to take measures not to bring in new diseases
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-901	中 to enable voluntary forest environmental protection measures 中 efficiency of protected areas through precision and focus on detected occurrences of the most rare species
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-903	abstinence in building wind turbines on biologically rich foundations and offshore banks. Examples of measures that take account of other values, such as economics, welfare, rural areas and culture, are everywhere in our claims, so I am not highlighting anything special. However, all the demands we have on hunting policy should be mentioned in this context. They breathe all the realism and concern for rural interests. Predators, cormorants and seals must never take precedence over good opportunities to live and work in rural areas.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-906	Madam President, I would like As I said, today is Earth's day. We are currently discussing nature conservation and biodiversity. Then we can consider, not what the earth can do for us, but what we can do for the earth. I believe that as decision-makers in the Swedish Parliament we have a lot to add and think about. In the debate, I have heard among others the Christian Democrats. It sounds like it's more about how we can speed up the extinction of species. Yes, we eradicate on average only one species per year, so we can eliminate more. We may be able to, but the question is whether that is what we actually want. I don't think so. We have also heard that we can actually continue to impoverish nature and exploit it while achieving its objectives. How do we do this? Well, by counting 52 percent of Sweden's surface as protected. Then we can check that we have fulfilled our international commitments. It's perfect, but really, in reality? There have also been suggestions on how we can continue to shoot and facilitate shooting of red-listed and endangered species in Sweden. But I have also heard frustration that it is being done too little. I'm one of those people who really shares that frustration. It is now 22 years since we decided on our 16 environmental objectives. We have reached one or perhaps one and a half of them, mainly the target of the ozone layer. Actually, we have. What do we need to do? New ways of thinking and new methods of working are being called for. I have written a motion with my party colleagues on this particular subject. I mean there that we need legal protection – for real – for endangered species. Many people today believe that the Red List and the Red List categories offer automatic protection, but that is not the case. We also need to accelerate protection. This applies to all habitats that need protection, both on land and in water. But we cannot be content with that, but we now need to actively restore nature because we have overdrawn nature's accounts and nature's ability, by the way. We need to find sustainable ways of using our nature, both in terms of fishing, agriculture and forestry. It is very damaging that there are many in this House who are convinced that this is already the case and that we do not need to do so. Then it may be much easier to look specifically at elm and ash, because there are no conflicts with the economy in the same way as there are when it comes to changing the whole of agriculture and forestry, for example. But we must have the courage to take that debate seriously. We also need financial incentives that favour and accelerate this and make it profitable for the individual user to make these changes. Globally, we also have much to do, such as work against trophy hunting. We have seen reports about how Swedish celebrities import endangered species to Sweden. We can actually change this. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-915	Madam President, I would like It felt important to get up in the chair after my colleague from the Environment and Agriculture Committee tied our party, my Moderates, in a bloc. I would like to point out that the Moderates are a liberal and conservative party, and I believe that the Swedish Democrats are interpreting what we think. I have made my own speech earlier here today. And it is urgent to point this out. We can certainly agree on certain issues; I do not deny that. But the question of socio-economic analyses, for example, was something that the spokesperson of the Green Party here, Maria Gardfjell, thought was a good proposal. She also welcomed the view of the Moderates. That is the reality. We may have different views on different issues, and that is the policy that we strive to continue to pursue on our own.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-917	Madam President, I would like It's been a long time since I've been so excited to have a debate. I and my colleagues in the Constitutional Committee have waited a long time. We were ready here last night to have this debate, and we have now had time to upload another day. This report on freedom and rights deals with many different issues: the prevention of violent extremism and how the Constitution can strengthen individuals' rights and freedoms in general vis-à-vis the state, including in relation to damages. We Moderates have a relatively large number of issues in this report. I will briefly mention several of them. But I strongly recommend reading our sports in this area if you want to go further. First of all, I would like to support our reservation 3 in paragraph 3 on strengthening the protection of rights in the form of government. Today, not all rights and freedoms guaranteed in the form of government have the same protection against restrictions on rights in legislation. The protection of property rights and freedom to conduct a business is, for example, weaker than the protection of freedom of expression, information, demonstration, assembly and association. Over the past year, the coronapendem has also become more top of mind among more people in our society how important it is what legislation we have that sets the distant limit or the ultimate protection of the rights that we all have to enjoy. I'm on 2nd chapter. Section 21 sets out the limits that may be imposed on some of our rights and freedoms. For example, it can only be done if you want to provide for purposes that are acceptable in a democratic society. The restriction shall never go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose which has led to the individual restriction. It must also not go so far as to threaten the free formation of opinions. Nor should the limitation be done solely on the basis of a certain political, religious or cultural outlook. This is very important protection. However, this protection does not enjoy all our rights and freedoms today. We Moderates believe that this should actually be the case. There are many reasons to consider whether, for example, both property rights and freedom to conduct a business should be covered by the same protection. In our opinion, the State should also be able to pay its own legal costs in human rights and freedoms claims. Even if the State wins against the individual in the end, the State should bear the costs of the proceedings in cases where there has been a reasonable reason to have the matter examined. There is a great public interest in examining questions about whether the state has restricted any individual's human rights and freedoms. And if there is reason to test them, we have a great public interest in doing so. Such an infringement, if the state had not been right, is so large and serious. It cannot be up to the individual to be able to afford to stand the risk of losing and paying the State's legal costs. The economic risk cannot prevent this. In view of this, we would also like to broaden the mandate of the ongoing basic law investigation in the areas I have already mentioned and some further. We believe, for example, that the liability of the State in the event of an infringement should be investigated, i.e. whether it should be extended. These are real proposals that would make a big difference in real life and that would develop our rights and freedoms in practice. Many suggestions elsewhere may sometimes tend to create additional bureaucracy and generate dialogue and dialogue, with good signs of course. However, longer processing times and more meetings need not mean that rights are strengthened, but perhaps just that there are more meetings and longer processing times. Another issue that we believe the Fundamental Law Committee should look at is the introduction of the negative freedom of association. The Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights includes both the negative and the positive freedom of association, but in Sweden only the positive freedom of association is protected by the form of government. We have a great association life, which we should be very proud of, but for that very reason the right to stand outside – not to be associated with an association – is perhaps even more important in our country. It should be covered by the same protection in the form of government, we believe. There is also another type of issue which is concerned in the report and which is very central today. For example, we have proposals to investigate also certain restrictions on freedom of association. It may sound strange in relation to what I have just talked about and the importance of it, but it was never intended that freedom of association would protect, for example, the right of criminals to organise themselves. That is not the point of freedom of association. We therefore want the Fundamental Law investigation to look at how, like the proposal that has been put forward to restrict freedom of association when it comes to supporting terrorism, the corresponding legislation can be made when it comes to violent extremism – both from left-wing extremity and from right-wing extremity – and to make it more difficult for criminal gangs. These groups are today a major threat to our society and to the rest of us and our rights and freedoms as individuals. We therefore believe that the Basic Law Committee should have been given these tasks from the outset, but that they should now finally be supplemented. We don't investigate our constitution very often. That's why we should do it properly now.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-933	Madam President, I would like The largest segregation in Sweden is the cultural. It cannot be ignored that many people have come here from other countries who appreciate Sweden's well-developed welfare and our strong social safety net. But it is common for those who come to Sweden not to like Swedish values such as gender equality and individual freedom. In cultural segregation, extremism has flourished, and with it there have been new demands for special treatment. Instead of clear guidelines on what should be tolerated, most things have been accepted, in the name of multiculturalism. Clarity is important. Therefore, religiously motivated sex segregation activities, tax-funded circumcision of children and the serving of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning shall be prohibited. This shall never occur in publicly funded activities. Let us be clear to those who are immigrants to our country: Swedish culture is traditionally based on a Christian foundation, with secular government. This means that religion is separate from the state and that religion is a private matter for the individual. What a higher power you worship is your private business. All our laws that you as an immigrant must obey are above religious laws and decrees. Neither Swedish laws nor Swedish culture will change in any way other than by democratic means. If you cannot accept this, you should seek happiness in another country. In Sweden we have freedom of religion, which means that we do not disagree if others have a different religion from our own. Freedom of religion also means the freedom to renounce religion. In Sweden, we strive for gender equality, which means that women have the same rights as men. In Sweden, women, like men, are free to choose whether they want to marry, who they want to marry, whether they want to educate themselves or whether they want to work. Women, like men, have the right to divorce under Swedish law, without having to state reasons for this. All of this should be made clear to the immigrant. It is of the utmost importance that we defend our democratic, cultural and secular values in order to prevent people being led into extremism. In a number of European countries, including Denmark, Belgium and France, there is a ban on wearing facial garments. We see no reason to allow this extremist and women's oppression symbol and therefore propose that a comprehensive veil be banned in public places. Most Muslims in Sweden do not force their girls to wear a veil. Those who do this and who think that this is important belong to a minority, and if we are to be honest, it is a minority that often lives away from the majority society. We must understand the reason why some parents want their children to wear a veil, and I would argue that this is part of a broader, complex context that includes not only religion but also honour and patriarchal structures. It is the parents who want the child to wear a veil, and it is the culture of honor that forces the child to wear a veil. Sara Mohammad, founder of Never forget Pela and Fadime, writes in a debate article from August 2017: ..................................................... She also writes, "The veil is not a garment, it is a tool for objectifying the woman who is subordinate to the man, i.e. totally contrary to everything Sweden stands for in the field of gender equality." ..................................................... In the debate article, she proposes that children should not wear a veil. Let children be free from religious dogmas that cement unhealthy gender roles. The little girl sees herself as a sexual commodity and they're raised to men being dangerous. ..................................................... We Swedish democrats agree. The veil is also a symbol of women's oppression in Afghanistan, the Middle East and North Africa. What happens is that the oppression that existed in the home country continues in Swedish schools, through the veil. Children who grow up in alienation environments have significantly less chance of succeeding in Swedish society. This fundamentally unfair system leads to hopelessness and frustration. Segregation and exclusion is the mystery of Islamism. The school will be an important place for children growing up in the exclusion areas. Here they can get in touch with Swedish society and familiarise themselves with the norms and rules of the majority society. Pre-primary and comprehensive school should work to break segregation and be a place where children in particularly vulnerable areas have the opportunity to get acquainted with Swedish society. It must never contribute to maintaining segregation, honour-related structures and mandatory standards from distant cultures. Therefore, children in pre-primary and primary schools should not be allowed to be veiled. With this, I am in favour of our reservation number 6 in this report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-948	Madam President, I would like I'm borrowing my vote to Linda Modig's words. She should have actually given this speech. Madam President, I would like The first task of the state is to protect its inhabitants from violence and other threats to their safety, life and health. If the state fails to fulfil that task, it cannot guarantee other rights and freedoms. It is about defending the country against external threats. It is about creating security for the inhabitants of their daily lives, no matter who they are or where in the country they live. We will never accept that people are shot to death in our streets, that children and young people are robbed or that women are subjected to violence in close relationships. Nor should we accept the fact that Jews do not dare to wear kippa in public or that women are being harassed for wearing a veil. Of Chapter 1, Paragraph 2 of the form of government states that public power must be exercised with respect for the equal value of all human beings and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. This is a given in democratic Sweden. Freedom in the Center Party's sense is not granted to the few and the privileged – all people regardless of background, skin colour, age, gender or origin should be given the opportunity to expand their chances of life and feel freedom. It is therefore important to listen when we draw attention to the fact that the freedom and dignity of many of our fellow human beings are restricted by racism, anti-Semitism, anti-Ziganism, Islamophobia and discrimination. Over the past year, there have been widespread protests against police violence and racism in the United States. The Black Live math movement has found its expression both in the United States and in the rest of the world, but it is clear that the world has a long way to go to equality, understanding and tolerance. In Sweden too, the Black live math movement has protested, manifested and acted against the racism that exists in Swedish society. The statistics also speak clearly. For example, a report from the Stockholm County Administrative Board shows large differences between Afrosvens and the rest of the population in all examined areas, including unemployment, salary and disposable income, and the ability to make a career and achieve management positions in relation to the level of education. Brå's statistics also show that hate crimes involving xenophobic or racist motives have consistently increased since 2013. The same applies to hate crimes with anti-Semitic or Islamophobic motives. We cannot have a society where so many people are limited by prejudice and discrimination. The Center Party stands up for each individual's right to freedom and the opportunity to make the most of their ability and dreams without being limited by prejudice, no matter what they are based on and who expresses them. The state should facilitate, not hinder, people's ability to make the most of their ability. To achieve this, state institutions must ensure the rule of law and the rules of the society, while they are based on the fundamental value of equal value, freedom and dignity and work actively against discrimination. Madam President, I would like In several countries – even in former stable liberal democracies – authoritarian forces in recent years have weakened and in some cases dismantled democratic and constitutional institutions. This has not been done by military coup or revolution. Instead, in Hungary and Poland, for example, political parties have won power through legitimate elections, and then liberal democracy has been dismantled from within. They have dismantled the independence of the courts, limited the influence of the opposition, restricted freedom of the press and expression and re-established public service to the extended propaganda arm of the government party. It has succeeded in Poland and Hungary, it has been tried in the United States and it can happen here in Sweden. Sweden's liberal democracy is strong, but our democratic and constitutional institutions, and therefore the rights they protect, are vulnerable to illiberal and authoritarian forces. This is true both at state, regional and local level. We in the Center Party are proud of Sweden's strong protection for civil and political rights. We Swedes are free to express ourselves as we want and to criticise the power, and the press have good opportunities to carry out its important mission. But these rights must not be taken for granted, either by the citizens or by us elected representatives who have been given the confidence to decide on them. They must be protected and further developed so that they make a real difference in people's lives and respond to the challenges they face. The Center Party is very concerned that in recent years several EU Member States have moved in an authoritarian, illiberal and corrupt direction. We are concerned about the journalists who have been murdered or silenced, about the judges and academics who have been fired, about the opposition politicians and voters who have been silenced and about the women who have been deprived of the right to their own bodies. We are also concerned about how these Member States prevent the EU from solving common problems, embezzling common EU funds and in other ways undermining cooperation and the confidence of Europeans in it. For the people who live in these states and for the future of the Union, the Center Party wants more decisive action. We want the EU to strangle funds to Member States that do not respect their democratic commitments and do not put an end to public corruption. We want to protect and strengthen the work on human rights with the European Convention on Human Rights as a cornerstone, and we want Sweden and the EU to stand up for democracy and the rule of law to apply to everyone in the EU Member States. Madam President, I would like Radicalisation and terrorism are a threat to democracy, the free exercise of human rights and economic and social development. The message should always be that the state is fighting against such serious and system-threatening crime. The terrorist-related activities in Sweden are dominated, according to the Swedish Security Service, by actors who are motivated by violence-promoting Islamist extremism, but also other extremist organisations within the white power environment, the radical nationalist environment and the autonomous left-wing environment can pose threats. Other groups also use violence to achieve their goals, such as eco-fascists who attack farmers. What they have in common is that they are opposed to liberal democracy and are willing to use force to overthrow or weaken it. We also see a greater loosening of the association in the form of organisations and, to a greater extent, a more loosely joined network of extremist and violent people. Common to these is that they have a destructive narrative and work to move the boundaries of what is acceptable to express. It can ultimately contribute to the dehumanisation of certain groups or individuals, and this in turn can be a breeding ground for violence. Terrorism and violent extremism come from outside Sweden and within its borders. Whatever their origin, such ideologies pose threats not only to individuals affected by the violence of their followers but also to liberal democracy as a whole. Open society must not be weak in the face of such forces. The Center Party wants to see more effective measures to prevent, hinder, prevent and deter their activities. Freedom of expression is fundamental, and every person has the right to express his or her views. However, in cases where these views call for violence, war crimes or terror, the public should not be involved in supporting this. In order to counter the violence-promoting organisations back, society needs to highlight more clearly than it is today. Individuals who have not yet committed crimes but are on the verge of radicalisation must be confronted with preventive measures that are not perceived as stigmatising. Parents and local police as well as civil society and religious communities play important roles in the fight against radicalisation today. Madam President, I would like I support the Centre Party's reservations in the report, but I only ask for reservation 7 in paragraph 10.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-968	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8. This report contains many proposals that affect our fundamental freedoms and rights in various ways. These are things that we often take for granted and see as obvious, such as respect for the equal value of all people, freedom of expression, the right to participate in meetings and to demonstrate, and the right to practice our religion, whatever it is, or the right to choose not to be a believer at all. It is also a question of protecting us against major breaches of our personal integrity, of not registering us on the basis of political opinions, of moving freely, of protecting us against discrimination and of making the trial public if we are accused or have committed a crime. Madam President, I would like Over the past year, many of the rights and freedoms that we have in various ways have been curtailed and not always felt so obvious. This is, of course, due to the pandemic that has been and is still going on. Nevertheless, especially in these times, it is worth recalling that the possibilities for restrictions that exist can only be used to provide for purposes that are acceptable in a democratic society and that they must never go beyond what is necessary. I think it is important to remind you of this, because we, as a society, have quickly become accustomed to and adapted our daily lives to the recommendations and restrictions that have applied over the past year. If you look outside Sweden, you can also see that several governments have imposed major restrictions and changes that are greater than is necessary with the pandemic as a reason. Madam President, I would like We are seeing a decline around the world in the field of human rights, including within the European Union. We can see this on many issues, but, for example, with regard to LGBTQ people's rights, it has become increasingly clear that EU membership is not a guarantee that LGBTQ people will avoid discrimination. As early as 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled that all couples have the same right to freedom of movement. This means that all EU countries must recognise same-sex marriages that have been concluded in one EU country. The decision was an important indication of the discrimination that is now taking place against LGBTQ people. However, there is still uncertainty as to whether all countries within the EU will respect and comply with the judgment. Madam President, I would like We must jointly state that the discrimination against LGBT people that is taking place today is not compatible with EU membership and that there must be consequences if Member States choose to restrict the human rights of their citizens.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-976	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in the report. I was going to spend this time trying briefly to outline what issues we are facing. There are many issues that, in my opinion, we should discuss a little more fundamentally. It was not so many years ago that we in our country regarded human rights as a matter for other countries. That's where there was trouble. It is only recently that we are beginning to realise that the international rules on human rights are very relevant to us too. I believe that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has contributed a great deal to understanding that such rules, which are internationally agreed and have our support, are very important and that we should take them very seriously. I think we need to start to realise that human rights are an important aspect for almost all policy areas. All the issues we are discussing have a dimension of rights, and that is what needs to get into general thinking. I say this because we are facing a very important discussion on a proposal that is interesting in this context. That is the proposal for a special human rights institute. It is a proposal which is on the table and which we will hopefully discuss later this spring. I would urge that we take this discussion very seriously. This type of institute already exists in a wide range of countries in Europe. There have been very positive experiences in terms of the results that have come to light. It is important that these institutions, and what I hope will become a reality here in Sweden too, are politically independent. They should really focus on primarily promoting the requirements and implementation of the requirements contained in the international rules and, of course, in the nationally agreed rules. In this context, of course, it is important to take a closer look at the conventions that we have endorsed in the United Nations and the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Institute, if well managed and given a good start, can be an important source of knowledge. It can be a great help for education and information, in schools but also in other contexts, about the rights we should respect. The Institute could follow up international discussions and not least listen to the international human rights bodies, including those set up by voluntary organisations. On the other hand, the Institute should not deal with the individual cases, but must remain the responsibility of the institutions responsible for this task, such as ombudsmen. It shouldn't change, but this institution should have a different role. I do not think that there will be a lack of information for the institution – not at all. I think it is important to think about what is actually in the bill that is on the table, namely that the institution should have the task of placing great emphasis on the situation of people with disabilities. This is really the only area that is strongly emphasised in the proposal. This is because the International United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is important and will play a major role in this context. There really is a need for more intensive work to address the problems that we have discussed and on which we have a certain debate. We see in the media that there are problems with the rights of people with disabilities. But there is an incentive here to really look a little closer at the problems involved and to carry out proper investigations into the concrete problems, often of different kinds, that exist in the field of disability. In this respect, we must use the expertise that actually exists and listen to the positive experience that has been gained in some countries, not least in our neighbouring countries. I believe that this is an important task. Another task of the Institute would be to look at the situation of national minorities. We have a number of minorities here in Sweden which have special status and which have been clearly defined by the Council of Europe. Sweden has, of course, ratified the Council of Europe's conventions, including the one on minority and language issues for these groups. This is an important area. Let me mention two examples. The first concerns the Roma. The Roma are a national minority in Sweden, but the situation of the Roma is still not satisfactory in terms of respect for human rights. The Roma groups in Sweden are outside. It is an alienation that is very clear. The Roma do not participate, and they are not invited to participate in public life and political discussion in the way that would be desirable if they had the same rights in practice as we do. There is a real task here for such an institute to try to drill through what it is because it takes so long for us to ensure that the Roma get full rights in practice in this country and break the alienation that they really feel. I know because I know a lot of them. It would be an important task for such an institute to look into this issue. The same applies to the Sami. Of course, we have quite a lot of discussion about them at the moment, but there are still issues that have not been resolved well. This applies not least to land issues. There would be a need for some kind of reform which makes it absolutely clear what kind of consultation needs to be carried out before measures are taken that violate or might violate Sami reindeer husbandry and so on. Something is going on there, but something more would be needed to clarify the real problems and come up with good solutions. I would like to argue strongly that the issues I have mentioned – the rights of people with disabilities, the rights of the Roma in our society and the opportunities for the Sami people to have a voice for their own interests in Swedish society – come up on the agenda in a different way than so far. I believe that this human rights institute would be a great asset.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-993	Madam President, I would like The form of government, one of our constitutions, gives us in this country protection of our freedom to be who we are, to believe in what we want and to tell others what we think. It is about freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the prohibition of discrimination being a fundamental basis for how we want Sweden to be. It is about the public not being able to restrict our rights and freedoms. This is something that we really have a lot of focus on based on the situation we are in with the pandemic, but I will talk about something else. The committee's report deals with a series of motions concerning these freedoms in a very broad sense. However, I see that some motions do not seem to be about really protecting freedoms, but rather about wanting to restrict freedoms. We in the Green Party have been thinking about what happens when, for example, a municipality restricts individuals' freedoms and rights to be protected by the public. When we saw how municipalities forbade veils, we asked ourselves how the intentions of the Constitution on religious freedom can be protected for individuals living in the municipality in question if the municipality is faced with such prohibitions. What protection is there at national level that can stop such development without otherwise restricting the right of municipalities to self-determination? What has happened since last autumn when these bans came? The Administrative Court has decided that the decisions of Staffanstorp and Skurup are contrary to the provisions on freedom of religion in the Constitution and the European Convention, and the decisions have been repealed. The Court of Justice writes: a common feature of all fundamental rights is that they are – and should be – difficult to limit. In the recitals, reference is made to a previous opinion by our own committee, which states – as we continue to do now – that it is an obvious starting point that everyone has the freedom to dress as he or she wants and that legislation banning veiling in society or for children in certain activities should not be considered. The decisions are subject to appeal, and we are following the continuing process of seeing what protection looks like and whether it is strong enough. We can also note that in the debate on women's freedom and rights, it is unclear who defines freedom for the woman who, by choice, wears a veil. We ask ourselves: What does freedom mean for that woman? Who will define that freedom? Is women's freedom a homogeneous and narrow definition, or is it up to each one to decide for himself? The Green Party believes that freedom is linked to the individual's own will and desire, not something that can be determined by others. To force someone to wear religious symbols is wrong, and just as wrong is to force someone to take them off. If so, what other garments should politics force women or men to take off? This is something you need to decide for yourself. Madam President, I would like This was only a downlash in the broad range of motions dealt with in the Constitutional Committee's report. I support the committee's proposal.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1002	Madam President, I would like Today is earth's day, as I said. In Sweden we sometimes boast that we have the best environmental legislation in the world. However, when we begin to examine our environmental laws, it soon becomes clear that we are making exceptions after exceptions. This applies to total defence, mining, large-scale fishing and forestry. This also applies to our biggest emitters. Looking at environmental legislation, it will also soon become clear that it is often about limiting how much damage we do to nature rather than looking after the good of nature. Madam President, I would like We have had our national environmental objectives for more than 20 years. We're achieving one, maybe one and a half. We must therefore realise that no new technology or efficiency can in itself reverse the trend. What we need now, Madam President, is to change our view of nature – simply stop seeing nature as a dead object and start seeing it for what it is: a living subject full of life. Madam President, I would like There are an estimated 10 to 100 million species on this planet, but only one has rights. It happens to be us, Homo sapiens sapiens sapiens. I believe that we need to take a more compassionate and empathetic role than one who merely controls, oppresses and destroys nature. We can do this by extending our rights to include other forms of life. This may sound impossible, but it is already a reality. Ecuador is the first country in the world to have implemented this in its constitution. In 2018, the Supreme Court of Colombia decided to recognise the Amazon as a living legal entity. Bolivia adopted a law on Mother Earth rights in 2010 and has established a ministry and appointed an ombudsman for the rights of nature. In the United States, some thirty municipalities have local regulations that recognise nature's rights. The list is long, and I do not have time to take up all the examples during my short time here in the speaker's chair. In conclusion, Madam President, nature's rights mean a shift in the way we think and a fundamental change in the legal system. Such a shift sets completely new ground rules and is probably one of the most important steps mankind can take to truly create a sustainable future. That is why in my motion I have called for Sweden's form of government to be supplemented under Chapter 2. Fundamental rights and freedoms with a new paragraph, Protecting nature, with this text: Nature, including ecosystems and native species, shall be guaranteed the following rights: This bill should not interpret that nature has any obligations, requirements or responsibilities. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1010	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Constitutional Committee deals with 150 motions from the general period of exercise. We have already dealt with issues similar to 100 of them, which is why we are dealing with them in a simplified way. So what this report goes deeper into are issues that are new to the committee this parliamentary term. One of these questions is a proposal from the Moderates to increase the independence of the Swedish courts. It relates to the debate that we have just had here on human rights and freedoms. Anyone who listened to this debate knows that we have an ongoing Constitutional Law Committee, the 2020 Constitutional Law Committee, tasked with investigating, among other things, how to just extend the independence of the courts. However, we Moderates believe that this investigation should have been given an even larger and more far-reaching mandate than it is now, or perhaps more specifically, in terms of strengthening the independence of courts and judges. Sweden's constitutions form the basis of our social contract. The basic laws are not investigated very often, and therefore it would have been good if the current investigation had been more extensive. Such an investigation should, in addition to the directives it already has today, also look at more far-reaching proposals on how to strengthen the independence of courts, how to strengthen the independence of judges, the position of the Law Council, the judicial review and how individuals' rights and freedoms can become more robust. The 2010 constitutional reform strengthened the constitutional independence of Swedish courts. The reform was decided in full agreement between all parties of the Riksdag, and it created a good and solid basis for the courts to carry out their judicial tasks without the influence of the wishes and expectations of the political power. However, following the entry into force of the constitutional reform in 2011, authoritarian parties have advanced their positions in several parts of Europe. A lot has happened since then. In Poland, the executive and legislative bodies have been systematically given the opportunity to influence the composition, powers and functioning of the judiciary at political level. Judges have been suspended, reduced or replaced by decisions on, among other things, a reduced retirement age. New ways of restricting judicial power have been greatly increased and used in Europe since the last constitutional reform. Similar developments have also taken place in other countries in Europe, Hungary and Romania. The independence of the Swedish courts is not directly threatened by these authoritarian forces in other countries, and there is no imminent national threat in Sweden today. But that is precisely why we now need to make these reinforcements. We can never assume that what has happened in other countries in Europe can never happen here in Sweden. It is important that we create as robust a distance as possible between the government, the parliament and the courts, for example when it comes to the appointment of judges. It is also of the utmost importance for a democratic rule of law such as Sweden. We need to consider setting up a Council that is independent from parliament and government – a Council that, in our opinion, should consist of judges and which, for example, can appoint the Head of the Board of Justice. The supervision of the courts also needs to be reviewed and the roles of the JO and JK investigated. The location of the court grant in the State budget is also relevant. We believe that it should be below the area of expenditure that we call the Kingdom government and that is prepared by the Constitutional Committee. HD and the HFD, our highest courts, should have an increased influence on who is appointed Justice. These are some of the proposals that we would like the Committee of the Fundamental Rights to examine and consider carefully. In the light of the tone that can sometimes be heard in the debate on democracy in Sweden today, I think it is worth noting in particular which parties it is that consistently present in the Swedish Parliament proposals like this in order to actually strengthen the independence of Sweden's courts and judges. With this in mind, I would like to support our reservation in paragraph 9 which deals with this particular proposal.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1024	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 2, although we naturally support all our reservations in the report. Madam President, I would like The government formation after the 2018 election was a lengthy process, even from a historical perspective. I remember how impatience spread among the country's voters while the process of forming a government was going on. Concerns in local and regional policy were also evident, as it was difficult to plan for the future when the formation of government was so uncertain. The whole situation was due to the parliamentary situation that arose after the election results had been established. The traditional cooperation parties could not achieve a clear majority in the parliament itself, which created conditions that the voters could not have predicted. Some parties, for example, could gain disproportionately great influence on government policy given their comparatively low voter support. There were many talks between the parties of the Riksdag to find a solution that could be accepted by the Riksdag. No less than seven President rounds were carried out. Finally, an agreement was reached on the basis of what the collective parties were against rather than what they were for. On 16 January, Speaker Stefan Löfven proposed as Prime Minister, and two days later the motion was adopted by the Riksdag, with the situation in the country calming down somewhat. This way of forming a government, on the basis of what one is against rather than on the basis of what one is for, is completely foreign to us Swedish democrats. We have always intended to cooperate with other parties on substantive issues where we feel the same. Cooperation on individual issues does not mean that you have the same views on all issues or that you have the same ideology. Nor does it mean that the ideology of the other party is contaminated. It is a way of negotiating in a elected parliament and giving and taking. Points of concern have always existed, but there will still be differences between parties even if they cooperate on individual issues. But cooperation requires, of course, dialogue, and it has been difficult for us in the past. Fortunately, it has become easier in recent times, especially during this parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like Our hope is that the future formation of government will be based on common interests as to what direction Sweden must take in order to get the country out of the many problems we face, such as crime, insecurity, division, segregation, inaccessible welfare, unconditional integration policy and so on. Solving such problems should be the basis of each party for future government cooperation, that is, what we actually want to achieve. When we have such problems as we have today, it is simply not good enough to form a government based on what one is against. It is not worthy of a democracy in which all public power should be based on the people. Madam President, I would like In the form of government, there are certain frameworks for how the process of government formation is to take place. However, there are no deadlines, which in theory means that a government voted out by the Riksdag can continue to rule the country until the next ordinary elections. Our view is that some kind of a longer time limit for the formation of government should be introduced into the form of government. In this way, lengthy processes leading to concerns among voters and business can be avoided. The precise design of such a limit should be examined within the framework of a parliamentary committee.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1034	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7, but of course we are also in favour of reservation 8. Madam President, I would like In recent years, politicians have sold out large parts of our common property. These are schools, health centres, pharmacies, apartments and much more. In several cases, these sales have been made at sub-prices. We have simply read out what is ours and which we jointly own. Let me give you a few examples. SMHI sold a 5 1⁄2 million shipping service last year, despite annual revenues of over 40 million. In Uddevalla, eleven preschools were sold to a company for just over 3 million in 2008. Ten years later, the company owned a total of 35 preschools and was acquired by a school group for 239 million. Vantör's home service was sold out for SEK 70 000 in 2007. Nine months later, the new owners made a profit of over 5 million. Madam President, I would like This is, in fact, quite appalling. It is clear that there is a need for stronger protection for our common property. Our constitution today provides strong protection for private property, but the protection of what we own together is considerably weaker. It is a problem that the assets that have been built up for the common good for a long time can be sold out very easily, with a voice's overweight. It is true that common property should not be sold out at sub-prices. Yet it happens regularly. It has also been noted that there have sometimes been purely incorrect sales. The problem with this form of decision is that once something is sold, it is usually not possible to buy it back. And if it is possible to buy back, the price tag is vastly higher. It is not reasonable for this type of decision to be taken by a simple majority. In some contexts, we have regulations that make certain decisions a little more difficult to make, for example when we hand over power to another decision-maker, for example when it comes to EU matters. The view of the Left Party is that a qualified majority or two elections should be required when selling joint property above a certain amount. Then the voters will have the opportunity to decide. We believe that such protection should be included in the Constitution and should apply at both state, regional and municipal levels. In order to avoid going around such protection by dividing a sale into several smaller steps, there should also be specific rules on what counts as a single sale. For example, it could be based on the rules for what counts as a single procurement. Madam President, I would like There must be an end to this welfare sale.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1043	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to enter the debate. However, I would just like to comment on a few points that have been raised in previous speeches. The government formation after the last election was very complicated and took a very long time. At the same time, I think there is reason to be a little impressed by how the Swedish Constitution passed that test. As many political scientists have pointed out, what we were dealing with in those months was a rather comprehensive reorientation of the political system. Such a reorientation of the political system does not happen very often. When new structures are born, it may have to be allowed to be a process. Was there a disaster during those months? No, it worked pretty well. The transitional government did not abuse its power. A government was formed in time. The President used his muscles and put increased pressure on the parties. Finally, there was the threat of extra elections, which are the tools of the President to press the parties for reconsideration and also to make uncomfortable positions. Unlike Mikael Strandman, I think the constitutional rules proved to work very well in a very difficult situation. That is why there is no reason to go ahead and review that system. Ida Drougge raised the issue of the independence of the courts. I'm on the committee that's now investigating it. I agree with Ida that it is important to look at how to strengthen the independence of the courts and, as the Committee is investigating, what can be done to perhaps put some gravel in the machinery in the event of constitutional changes. There may be a need for qualified majority voting and clearer rules on this point. The ultimate power is always with the people. If the people want to do something persistently, in my opinion, very stupid, we cannot by rules prevent it indefinitely. But we can put some gravel in the machinery that gives people the opportunity to think for once. We'll look at that on the committee. I think that's the right thing to do. I think that the steps that the committee is working on, including the independence of courts, are a step in a wise Swedish tradition. Then we will have to evaluate it and think about further major radical steps. Unlike Ida Drougge, I am a reformist, not a revolutionary. This is a good step. I support the KU's proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1050	Madam President, I would like We don't usually ask for a line, but there was one thing I had to ask about. It may be a problem if the President belongs to the same party and in some way would like to prolong, delay and slow things down and not have new President rounds. How would you solve it?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1052	Madam President, I would like In the end, the majority of Parliament owns the issue. In my opinion, the parties are faced by the President's strike, as you might call it, with a new situation in which the parties are being pressured to reposition themselves. I don't really see the risk that Mikael Strandman sees. On the other hand, Mikael Strandman raises the question that has sometimes been discussed, namely that we do not have an instrument to dismiss the Presidents. Perhaps this is something that a future constitutional investigation needs to look at. In my view, however, a situation with a President who strikes is also manageable for the parliamentary majority.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1054	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Hans Ekström. What we want to avoid is a situation that we have seen in other European countries. There are countries, such as Belgium, where the formation of government has taken years. It is a bit of this that we have put forward our proposal. I noticed myself very clearly when I took the bus from Norrtälje into Stockholm how people, although not in an unpleasant way, questioned the whole thing and thought this was a sandbox, that it was silly. I took on some of that and thought you could at least look at the question.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1056	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that people were surprised because it had not happened in Sweden for a very long time. In the example of Belgium, mentioned by Mikael Strandman, it is the king who owns the process. It has lived with this process for very long periods, while society has worked. The king does not belong to any party; he hardly even belongs to any of Belgium's language groups, unlike everyone else. Yet the system works. I'm a little afraid that you're going after changes in the form of government when things work. At this point I am a little more conservatively laid than Mikael Strandman.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1059	Mr President, I would like to It has only been a few weeks since I was elected as a member of the Constitutional Committee. It is with great curiosity and eagerness that I have taken on the task and further deepened myself in, among other things, the details of our constitutions that set the framework for how political decisions are made. As the basic rules of the rules of our democracy are at stake, there are specific requirements aimed at preventing premature changes to the constitutions. Therefore, two equally obedient parliamentary decisions with an intermediate election have long been required to make some changes. The first decision adopts the draft Constitution as a suspension. The second decision may not be made earlier than that after the first decision there have been elections to the Riksdag in the whole kingdom and the newly elected Parliament has gathered. In addition, there should be at least nine months between the time when the matter was first notified in Parliament's Chamber and the elections, unless the Constitutional Committee decides on exceptions. Such a decision shall be taken no later than in the course of the proceedings and at least five sixths of the members must vote in favour of the decision. It is worth recalling these rules of the game when we are today debating the Constitutional Committee's 24 report on constitutional issues. It deals with about 150 exercise requests from general exercise time in the last two years. I would like to raise an issue on which the Green Party has been exercising, namely the protection of public service in the Constitution. Its function is important in society. Since the 1960s, Sweden has a public service broadcasting activity characterised by independence, impartiality and objectivity. With its broad mission to review the powers, to reflect conditions throughout the country, to carry out a comprehensive child, educational and cultural mission, public service contributes to citizens being well informed and able to make informed decisions. This strengthens our democracy. Mr President, I would like to Public service has an extremely important mission to review the Riksdag and the Government. There should never be any doubt that this review is independent of policy. In this way, the public will be given transparency in the exercise of power and it will be possible for the public to demand responsibility. At the same time, in our surrounding world, we have seen how authoritarian governments, shortly after taking control of the country's former public service, have been able to transform it into government-led propaganda channels, as part of a dedemocratic process. We are not immune to such a development taking place in Sweden as well. Although Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio are today given a strong independence in the legislation that regulates the business, laws can be changed with a single club law in the Riksdag. It opens up to the party that quickly wants to push through radical changes for public service and change its ability to act as an independent and reviewing broadcaster. We in the Green Party have therefore wanted to introduce protection for the independence of public services in the Constitution too, so that the possibilities for a government that wants to control the content of broadcasters' broadcasts are made more difficult. We believe that it is important that it be implemented. Unfortunately, the 2018 Freedom of Expression and Press Committee failed to gather sufficient broad parliamentary support for strengthening the constitutional protection of public services and was therefore unable to make such a proposal. There is still no broad parliamentary majority in Parliament for this. I regret this because the vulnerability that exists because the current legislation can be changed with a simple club team in Parliament will remain. I would like to emphasise that the Green Party will continue to pursue this issue and safeguard the independence of public services. Public service must be beyond the various spheres of society's power. This is particularly true of the political sphere. Having said that, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1071	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I lend my voice to Linda Modig's words. Prior to the 2018 elections, the Center Party, together with the alliance parties, suggested that the possibilities for civil crisis legislation should be explored. Since then, we have maintained this position in, among other things, committee movements. The Center Party now wishes to re-emphasise the issue of the introduction of legislation to deal with peacetime crises. During the Corona crisis, it has become clear once again that existing legislation is not always appropriate or sufficient in the event of major crises. In some cases it even prevents effective crisis management. Authorities lack the means to implement what is needed or forced to break laws and regulations. Preparations are A and O in effective crisis management. It enables exercise and planning of how to act rather than having to invent the wheel during active crisis management. The Swedish constitutional emergency preparedness is limited to strengthened legislation for increased preparedness in the event of war and danger of war. The rules of Chapter 13. The government's form of war and danger of war allows the highest governmental bodies to take the measures required by the situation in war and danger of war and in such extraordinary conditions as are caused by war or danger of war. However, there is no such thing as too much pressure on society in peacetime. Nor is there a similar, coherent or coordinated arrangement for the Swedish administration system or local and regional elected assemblies. Mr President, I would like to The 2008 constitutional investigation proposed in its report that specific rules on how to deal with civil crises should be included in the form of government. Among other things, the proposal in the 2008 constitutional investigation meant an increased regulatory power for the government in certain civil crises. But this is left out of the bill because of widespread criticism. An alternative could be to develop the current so-called constitutional readiness in a way that does not involve a change in the division of competences between parliament and government. Such a system presupposes that measures that may be necessary can be anticipated to a greater extent. Regardless of the route chosen, it is clear that the issue is complex and that further investigation requires thorough and thorough consideration in the light of the experience gained in dealing with the current pandemic. Today, 22 April, it is four months since Prime Minister Stefan Löfven announced at a press conference that the government will set up a parliamentary committee to review how future governments will have greater opportunities for action in times of crisis in peace. He said he was prepared to review the government's powers in peacetime crisis situations. The government has not yet come back on this issue, and for the Center Party it is urgent to highlight the importance of such work getting under way as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the Center Party's reservation 6 in paragraph 15.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1080	Mr President, I would like to Hans Ekström was skilled in that he let a little stupidity slip out right at the end of his speech, so that I didn't have time to press the button for reply. Wanting to strengthen the independence of courts and judges is anything but revolutionary. If anything, it is to prevent revolution from happening quickly. 20 out of 28 countries in the EU have a central administration of the courts managed by an independent council that is not under government and parliament. We do not have that in Sweden. This is done by the National Board of Justice, which is directly under the government. The supervision of courts is carried out by the JO and JK, which are under parliament and government. The dismissal of judges takes place today under the Government's Board of Responsibilities. Investigating the separation of these three points between government and parliament, on the one hand, and judicial power in the form of judges and courts, on the other hand, is anything but revolutionary. That's all I wanted to end by saying.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1085	Mr President, I would like to This evening's last debate, which would have been yesterday's last debate, concerns the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 2020 21:U15 Middle East. It is a motion report with motions from three general periods of exercise: 2018/19, 2019/20 and 2020/21. The report contains a total of 100 different motions. We Moderates have two reservations in the report. I shall begin, Mr President, by saying that I am in favour of reservation 5, but of course I am also in favour of reservation 1. I would like to say to any listeners that there is much more to read in the report itself about what we Moderates think. I'll try to be relatively brief, considering tonight's late. The fact that it is Thursday also means that there are many colleagues who are going to their hometowns tonight. As I said, the motion report contains three years of exercise, 2018/ 19, 2019/ 20 and 2020/ 21, but I can unfortunately note that many of the older movements, which were written during the general exercise period two and a half years ago, are still valid. It is still the same problem, the same difficulties and the same conflicts. It means the same hardships for the people who are affected. It also means, Mr President, that the international community has failed in its mission to alleviate hardships, alleviate the hardships of war and ensure that there is a stop to abuses of politics and abuses of extremist views. What is also, unfortunately, important to say in these contexts is that the outside world cannot solve problems and solve wars if there is a lack of will in the countries concerned. This requires that there are political leaders who want change and that there are structures that make it possible to achieve change. Another thing I want to say is that the world has not for a very long time been as changing as it is today and that the free world and open society have not been faced for so long with as great challenges as today. This is evident not least in the current situation in the Middle East. The abuses committed in the region against human rights and the ongoing conflicts being fought in the Middle East are by no means new. It is in these many bottoms, layers and components that are hard to understand for us outsiders. I am thinking of dictatorship, war, political weakness, religious extremists, mismanagement of the economy, corruption and much more. In addition, there are often conflicting groupings. But one thing is clear: peace, an end to the current conflicts and the accountability of extremists for their actions are prerequisites for lasting peace and respect for the principles of the rule of law and human rights. We Moderates firmly believe that peace in the Middle East is not something that Sweden itself can contribute to. International cooperation and multilateral relations are needed. Work within the EU and cooperation with the UN are needed. Sweden's involvement in the EU's southern neighbourhood should, quite rightly, generate credibility in multilateral cooperation for a broad European commitment. It is in Sweden's interest for the Middle East to develop into a prosperous region, free from extremism and free from instability. I very often have contact with various minority groups from Iran and Iraq. Their descriptions clearly show that we must assist. These are persecutions that have been going on for a long time. I do not want to mention any group. If I miss any group, it is the same as not seeing that group being discriminated against. I would like to say that this is a great deal of discrimination. The regime in Iran has in a large number of cases acted threateningly against individuals living outside Iran. Of course, Iran's approach can never be accepted. Further problems for the exiles are that they can never, no matter how much they want, end their citizenship. Once Iranian citizen, always Iranian citizen. Unfortunately, it also makes it impossible for exiles to obtain dual citizenship in another country. It does not allow Iran's legislation. The fact that a regime in this way is holding its citizens in an iron grip is not compatible with international agreements. Sweden should act here. Furthermore, the regime in Iran is one of the most destructive regimes in the Middle East. But it is very rarely debated here in Sweden. I find that boring. Iran is a major financier of terrorist activities, supports war and also threatens to wipe out Israel. Iran's influence over Iraq has increased in recent years. I would also like to mention that Iran has been developing economic relations with China for a long time. It should be troubling the outside world. China is Iran's largest customer when it comes to buying oil, for example. There is much to say about women's rights. I would like to emphasise once again the right of girls to education and to be children– not wife and parent. It can't be said enough. Another country that also exists in the region is Iraq with its great natural resources in the form of oil. It is the world's third largest exporter of oil. But due to mismanagement of the state economy, the country is one of the poorest. 60 percent of the population live on less than $6 a day. It is not just public finances that are mismanaged. It is also widespread corruption. I just read a report from Transparency International showing that Iraq is in place 162 out of 180 when it comes to corruption in the world. This says a lot about how poorly managed the economy is. This, in turn, makes it difficult to get capital to the country. Which company wants to invest and build a business when the company is at risk of widespread corruption? This corruption is manifesting itself in many ways. For example, there is an informal tradition in Iraq that parliamentarians should offer party-loyal voters and their relatives work within state authorities and in politics. It is also a form of corruption. The protests in Iraq have been extensive since October 2019. There is an incipient work and an ongoing opposition in the country that wants a change under the slogans: The people wish the fall of the government, Free Iraq and Iran out. Here it is important to work to support forces that can become democratic and do not evolve into some form of new dictatorship, for then nothing is won. It must be a peaceful long-term solution. I want to say something before I move on, because time passes, about the terrorist organisation that exists in the Middle East. Daish is destroyed, but it's still there as a threat and can flourish. The international community must therefore ensure that those who have committed acts of terrorism are held accountable for their actions. This should be done on the ground in the countries where they have committed the crime and nowhere else. This is important. It's about reconciliation. But it is also a question of accountability. Finally, I would like to say something in my speech on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We Moderates believe that Sweden should contribute to a peaceful solution to the protracted conflict between Israel and Palestine. Sweden should work with the EU together with the UN to bring the conflict to an end. But Israel's right to security must be respected. It is unacceptable for Palestinian leaders and others to question Israel's right to existence. Israel must have its right served. Sweden itself must also strive on its own to play a constructive role in relations with Israel and Palestine. The way in which the Swedish recognition of Palestine took place, imposed by the Social Democratic Government, was badly handled. In fact, it was, to put it bluntly, terrible. This has led to lengthy frozen conflicts with Israel with which we are living today. I think that Sweden would have a lot to gain from better cooperation with Israel. This applies not least when it comes to Swedish entrepreneurship, research but also vaccinations. We can even see how Israel has done to manage to vaccinate its population in a short time. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot more to say. However, out of respect for speaking time, I thank you very much for the floor.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1112	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate on the Middle East is taking place at the same time as the international situation is increasingly characterised by great power competition and the abolition of a rule-based world order. Through the history of the Middle East, the domination of great power has had a major impact on the region. We are still seeing this today, and it supports a number of conflicts in the region that are tending to become more and more protracted. Peoples who strive for independence and development tend to have strong forces against themselves, forces that continue today to engage in empire-building and play against each other in a cynical game. One of the clearest examples of this is Turkey under Erdo中an, which is increasingly acting with empire-building ambitions. Furthermore, Turkey has managed to play with both Russia and the West in order to achieve its objectives, often at the expense of other peoples. Turkey's increased ambitions of power correlate with its increasingly authoritarian and aggressive behaviour. There is oppression of peoples in the country but also oppression of other peoples in other countries. Mr President, I would like to The Kurds have been denied their own homeland and in some cases they have even been denied the right to be recognised as their own people. They have been faced with aggression from the major powers in the region, not least Turkey, and they have been persecuted by many power-hungry leaders in the region. The Kurds are today the largest people, with up to 35 million people missing their own state. It is a people who for decades have fought hard against dictatorships and oppression. They have met everything from Turkey's modern high-tech army to IS improvised cult of death. Nevertheless, the Kurds have always offered resistance and have been a hope for many of those who seek to escape oppression and misery for decades. They have on occasion received support from the West and have in many cases become the most faithful in the fight against brutal groups in the region. However, support has been sensitive to different political cycles, and all too often we have seen how quickly they have been turned away. It is time for the support to become clear and for Sweden to declare that, under certain conditions of course, we support the right of the Kurds to increased autonomy. Mr President, I would like to Even today, Christians happen to be the most persecuted group in the world, so the Swedish Democrats, as we know, are repeatedly pushing for their legitimate protection, including through targeted support for these groups in the Middle East and increased autonomy. But it is not just financial support that is important. Now on Saturday, the day after tomorrow, April 24 is the anniversary of the 1915 genocide. The least, and I repeat the least, we can expect from our government at this point in time is a symbolic mark recognising this horrendous genocide. This is not the case, and we can see that year after year. The Social Democrats have promised their voters to recognise this genocide. They still haven't. As early as 11 March 2010, the Parliament issued a clear statement to the government to recognise the indescribable crimes for which the Ottoman Empire was responsible starting in 1915, but not. Our spineless government sits silently, as if the systematic repression of, above all, various Christian communities had never occurred and as if about 1.3 million people had never been murdered. This is remarkable and unforgivable. It shows that, despite all the fine words and declarations on human rights, there is not even the ability to stand up for fundamental recognition when it really is, and that is shameful. It was not very long ago that we heard Sweden's Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson announce the government's ambition to ban denial of the Holocaust. Is it not high time, then, that the government itself recognised the genocide in 1915, or should it be allowed to be denied by the government? I would like to remind the government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, of the genocide that was used as an inspiration by the Nazis when they planned to systematically and indescribably exterminate the Jews of Europe. It is high time that these peoples got redress and that the abuse of them is recognised by the outside world. This is particularly relevant now that Turkey is nostalgicly looking back at its empire days. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to remind you of more recent events that should have resulted in the action of a government that claims to value the protection of human rights, namely the Islamic State's campaign of terror in Iraq and Syria, which has shown a form of ruthless brutality that the world has rarely seen. The reign of terror of the Islamic State has been marked by murder, torture, theft and slavery. Brutality has had no boundaries, and the monsters who were or are part of this sect are marked by indescribable evil. The IS has, as is well, been largely wiped out purely territorially, but we must not forget that they are still not completely defeated. Similarly, we must not forget that all the damage and suffering that they have caused cannot be undone. The fact that, by means of a resolution, among others, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has recognised the abuses committed by IS as genocide is therefore not surprising. It has a legal and international significance, and it also has political significance. Above all, however, it is of enormous symbolic importance to the victims and to the relatives of the victims. That is why the decision has been a matter of course in the Council of Europe. One might think that the Swedish Government could also show the same unequivocal support for the survivors by following this resolution, but here too we can see that this is not the case. Once again, I would say it is shameful. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 2 but, of course, I also support the second SD reservation in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1131	Mr President, I would like to The Middle East is the cradle of our civilization. It was here that the first farms arose between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers. It is from here that we have received written language and mathematics, which originates here, as well as many of the world's religions that have been born here. Few geographical areas in the world have as much political dynamism as the Middle East. What is happening in the Middle East is often what has been defining for Swedish parties' view of our environment and what role we believe Sweden should play in it. Often it results in many places in the Middle East becoming game plans for proxy wars between global and regional powers. The most prolonged ongoing conflict in the world is Israel's occupation of Palestine. Already through the process that led to the proclamation of the State of Israel in 1948, the breeding ground for today's conflict was created when hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were expelled from their homes. Since the six-day war of 1967 Israel has occupied the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and East Jerusalem in violation of international law. The conflict is not a conflict between equal and equal partners. Israel is one of the world's largest military powers whose military apparatus is supported by the United States, and under international law it has a greater responsibility as an occupying power. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the acquis of international law, including the ban on attacks against civilians, covers all parties. Israel's occupation does not in any way excuse rocket attacks on Israel, attacks on civilian Israeli targets or Palestinian groups committing human rights violations in Palestinian areas. Israel's violations of human rights, international law and the Palestinian people not only continue but are becoming increasingly serious. The blockade of Gaza is progressing, as is the construction of the wall that has long been condemned by the UN. The number of illegal settlements on occupied land is growing unhindered, and the expulsion of Palestinians from East Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley is increasing. No peace seems to be in sight, and as long as Israel refuses to respect the Palestinians' most basic human rights, it will not be possible to achieve peace. Through its consistent violations of international law, Israel appears to be genuinely uninterested in abrogating the occupation of Palestinian land that has been going on for decades as the key to a lasting peace in the Middle East. The Left Party believes that Israel must withdraw from occupied territory, that the blockade against Gaza must be broken, that settlements must be evacuated and that a free and democratic Palestinian state should be established within the 1967 borders. The starting point of the Left Party is international law and respect for human rights. That is why, both inside and outside the Riksdag, we have drawn attention to and condemned Israel's gross and widespread violations of human rights. At the same time, we have not hesitated to distance ourselves from the violations of international law and human rights committed by Palestinian groups. The Left Party sees that Sweden can play a crucial role both in a future peace and reconciliation process and in building a Palestinian state formation. Sweden's recognition of Palestine as a state was an important step, and the government should be commended for that. In the near future, there will be several trials of corruption against Israel's Prime Minister Netanyahu. It is obvious that his strategy is to cling to power in order to avoid being judged. He draws this support from the most extreme Orthodox parties in the Knesset. There is a will in Palestine to hold elections, on the one hand elections to Parliament and on the other hand elections to the President. This is necessary in order to restore confidence in citizens' right to influence. At the same time, it is clear that Israel, as an occupying power, can put a stop to such a process. The world's pressure on both Palestine and Israel will be crucial for Palestinian elections to be held in May and June respectively. The explosion in Beirut in early August 2020 highlighted the widespread mismanagement and corruption in the political system in Lebanon. Long before the explosion people had gathered in large demonstrations and mass meetings to protest against corruption and inequality in Lebanon. People from different religious and political groups had come together to show their dissatisfaction with the ruling political elite, and the demonstrations were the largest in nearly 15 years. Among other things, a 17 - mile - long human chain was formed from north to south to show unity throughout the country. Tightening and raising taxes on phone calls via apps are said to have triggered the protests. But it was only the tip of an iceberg of very high youth unemployment and serious shortcomings in basic public services such as electricity, water and high-cost care. Lebanon is a country characterised by economic inequality. The richest 0.1% owns as much as the poorest half of the population. At the same time, the country is currently in a serious economic crisis. Lebanon has large foreign debts, and repayments of the loans weigh on the public purse. Permanent depreciation is needed by the outside world in order for the country to get on its feet. This small country has also been one of the great recipients of refugees from the war in Syria. More people should share that burden with Lebanon. The protests against the Syrian regime began in January 2011 as part of the Arab Spring. In large parts of the country and in larger cities, hundreds of thousands of people gathered to demand the resignation of President Bashar Al-Assad, democratic reforms and social justice. The protests were broad, popular and peaceful, but were met with gross violence and abuse on the part of the regime. At the end of 2011, fighting broke out between the regime and armed groups within the opposition. Ten years of war have passed in Syria. During the Syrian war, abuses have been committed by several warring parties. External parties such as the United States, Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey have all contributed to aggravating the conflict by pumping in support to their respective allies in Syria. However, the main responsibility for the escalation of violence rests with the regime through its repression and brutal responses to the demonstrations of the opposition. Russian and Iranian military support has been crucial to the continued holding of power by the Al-Assad regime. Sweden must work to ensure that the war crimes committed during the war in Syria are investigated by the International Criminal Court regardless of which grouping is suspected of having committed the abuses. Although the war in Syria is now more low-intensity than before, the country is still in conflict, and the humanitarian situation is very difficult. Sweden and the rest of the world have a great responsibility to contribute to a long-term sustainable peace and reconstruction so that the victims of the war can have dignified living conditions. Above all, it is important that Sweden supports the development in the north-eastern parts of Syria called Rojava, which is led by a Kurdish-dominated government. Despite the presence of the war, they are working intensively to rebuild welfare, local democracy and justice systems. Through both political support and assistance, Sweden can contribute to the reconstruction of the area. One question is about the Swedish citizens who have travelled down to Syria to fight for the terrorist group IS. Sweden must take responsibility for the Swedish citizens who are in Kurdish camps in northern Syria. This can be done in cooperation with the Kurdish government to bring those responsible for crimes to justice in either Syria or Sweden. Everyone has the right to a fair trial, and we must ensure that the guilty are judged. Children should be taken home immediately. The UN and Save the Children who are in place in Syria are warning that the situation is urgent. The Left Party has repeatedly questioned the government's failure to bring home Swedes who are in the camps in Syria. A major problem for Kurdish-dominated self-government is the constant military threat from Turkey. Only last month Turkey bombed the area. Turkey is also responsible for the transit of many who went down to fight for IS. Turkey also supports a number of military militia groups, particularly in the Idlib region. Turkey's action in the war in Syria has always contributed to prolonging the conflict. The neighbouring country of Iraq has also been greatly affected by the war in Syria. The country has still not recovered from the invasion of the United States, and its political system is characterised by a power struggle between the interests of the United States and Iran rather than the interests of the Iraqi people. This has led to great frustration and political dissatisfaction over unemployment and lack of well-being in particular. In 2019, young people in particular began to demonstrate around Iraq for their rights. They were treated with brutal violence and killing by the police and the military. The UN has reported that over 500 demonstrators were killed and nearly 7,800 injured. The Iraqi Government has apologized for the violence and killings, but those responsible have not been held accountable. The result of the revolution in Iran in 1979 was a fierce dictatorship. The violations of human rights by the Iranian regime are numerous and extensive. The Left Party has for a long time been paying attention to the situation in Iran and the regime's abuse of ethnic and religious minorities, women, trade unionists and LGBT people. Sweden conducts a comprehensive export promotion activity to Iran. Among other things, Amnesty has criticised this activity for not being linked to the work on human rights. In February 2017, Stefan Löfven became the first Swedish Prime Minister to visit Iran, then together with then Minister of Trade Ann Linde. Neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor ministers responsible for democracy, gender equality or trade union issues took part in the trip. The government's priorities were clear. It is clear that the purpose of the trip was to increase Swedish exports and that human rights issues were subordinate. Great caution must be exercised when trading or investing in a country such as Iran. Sweden's export promotion must never contribute to the benefit of the regime in Iran or to the violation of human rights. After Trumps's screw-up, both the United States and Iran now appear to be on their way back into a nuclear treaty. It is good that Iran does not acquire nuclear weapons. There's enough nuclear weapons in the world as it is. The agreement must not, however, contribute to the silence of international criticism of Iran's use of the death penalty and extensive and cruel violations of human rights. Today Yasmine Posio would also have talked about the Gulf states, the war in Yemen and Saudi Arabia's crimes there. These parts of the Middle East have the Left Party come back to in another debate, for example in the debate on arms exports. Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of reservation number seven.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1166	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask Håkan Svenneling a few questions about Israel. We Moderates want a two-state solution. We also want Jerusalem to be a divided capital city for two countries. Does Håkan Svenneling share this view? So to my second question. Does Håkan Svenneling really think that the government handled the recognition of Palestine as a state well? There was no foundation in the Riksdag, but the elected and legislative assembly was completely bypassed. Does Håkan Svenneling think this was a correct and good process? I would like to have a comment on that. Israel is a democracy. Israel is in a conflict-affected region and, most recently, Israel was attacked by missiles from Iran. When such attacks occur, it goes without saying that a country wants and must defend itself and its people. This shows how important it is to bring peace to the region. Without lasting peace, there will be trouble spots. I would like to say firmly that Israel's environment, specifically Iran, has a great responsibility for achieving peace.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1171	Mr President, I would like to There are such things in the Moderate analysis that the Left Party shares, and there are other things where the Left Party and the Moderates disagree in view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I think I will be able to account for these in this change of line. I think it was a good thing that the government recognised Palestine as a state. It was perhaps even a little late for a two-state solution to be possible. The development has made it more difficult and difficult to get this in place. But now we have an administration in Washington that hopefully can give renewed hope to that kind of process. It's basically good. It can be discussed whether it should have been established more clearly in the Riksdag. When the confession came, I had spent a week in Parliament, so I have a little bit of a bad memory of exactly how the process went. But it is clear that it is important that the Riksdag is informed by the Government in view of the upcoming major and important decisions. Whether Jerusalem should be the capital of two countries is, in my view, an interesting issue which I hope can be addressed in a peace process between Israel and Palestine, precisely in order for it to be resolved in a peace process, not in any other way. That is where I think Trumps's move to the embassy has been a way of burning the conflict rather than creating peace and reconciliation. Israel is absolutely a democracy, although it can be discussed whether it is healthy for a democracy to have as many elections as Israel. I believe that Israel's democratic problems are largely based on Prime Minister Netanyahu, who has led the country for long periods of the last 20 to 30 years and who is accused – not in a corruption case but four, the third even being secret because it is so serious. I believe that Israel has some things to improve in its democracy, but they are absolutely a democracy.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1177	Mr President, I would like to I do not defend corruption wherever it occurs. It is important that there are processes for this. I also believe that there must be peace in the region. It shows how important a peaceful solution is precisely because there are military attacks on a regular basis. That's not how a life can go on, because war gives birth to war. The best way to combat oppression and war is for people to feel hope and confidence, and this is where I believe that the EU and the US can contribute when it comes to a peace process between Israel and Palestine but also in the region as a whole. There cannot be a long-term peace between Israel and Palestine as long as the conflicts continue and Iran acts as they do today, as a destabilising factor with great resources. Nowadays, they are also a nuclear power that has increased its production and enrichment of uranium in order to produce additional nuclear weapons. This shows how serious the situation is in the Middle East. I hope that there can be peaceful solutions. I also hope that Sweden's relations with Israel can improve. Israel is the only strong democracy in that region, and then it is important that Sweden has good relations with that country. It also sends a clear signal against the anti-Semitism that exists across Europe.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1181	Mr President, I would like to I think it is positive that Margareta Cederfelt wants to contribute to peace between Israel and Palestine and that she sees opportunities for the EU to contribute to such a peace process. For my part, I have signed several roll-calls recently, including a letter to Joe Biden that he will take hold of and try to revive the peace process. I hope he and other world leaders will take on board these calls to try to move forward. I think it will be difficult as long as Netanyahu continues to have such great power and influence in Israel, but that can change one day. The nuclear issue is interesting. It should not be forgotten that Iran's efforts to acquire nuclear weapons are based heavily on Israel's possession of nuclear weapons. The dynamics of the nuclear weapon in the region of the Middle East is an aggravating circumstance that raises and creates an increasing level of conflict. I hope that we can ensure that Iran does not acquire nuclear weapons but also that Israel dismantles its nuclear weapons. What I hope from the Moderates is that in their policy for Israel – Palestine becomes a little clearer about that there are not two equal parties we are talking about. Israel is the occupying power and therefore bears the great responsibility. The Moderates need to be made clearer about the blockade of Gaza, about the construction of the wall condemned by the UN, about the number of illegal settlements that are increasing and about the expulsion of Palestinians from East Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley. It needs to be made clearer that a Palestinian state is to be established within the 1967 borders, and above all it needs to be clearer in its support for Palestine to be able to hold elections already in spring – in May and June. This is necessary in order to have a clearer state formation in Palestine. The existing state formation is not very democratic. They have an old leader who hasn't been re-elected in many years. The Palestinian leadership needs to be renewed so that young politicians, women and ethnic minorities can enter a Palestinian parliament to a greater extent and have a new President.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1187	Mr President, I would like to Allow me to begin by asking for the approval of reservation number 8. Of course, we also support the second reservation from the Christian Democrats. The Christian Democrats are working for a new Swedish Middle East policy. We are pushing for re-established relations with Israel. We condemn Iran's devastating warfare and financing of international terrorism. We are acting to end the persecution of Christians and to recognise the genocide of 1915 and 2014. We are taking action against the systematic spread of anti-Semitism and support for terrorists by the Palestinian leadership. We are making it clear that despotism and Islamism in Turkey disqualify the country from membership of the European Union. In foreign policy too, the Christian Democrats are a clear opposition party. Mr President, I would like to Unlike the government, we embrace the negotiation process that has led to peace between Israel and important parts of the Arab world. The committee's report devotes a few words to this normalisation. Yet it is a whole new political dynamic that is now being shaped in the Middle East. The agreements with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco open up opportunities for extensive trade and growth, but also for deeper and more general recognition of Israel's right to exist. As a result of skilful diplomacy, the United States has moved forward positions in a way that decades of European mediation have never succeeded in. The new Middle East that we are seeing today indicates a significant and historic development. Mr President, I would like to Several governments and political leaders around the world welcome what is happening. Good hopes grow that more Arab countries will follow. At the same time, it is clear that political governance in Palestinian areas is marginalized. To a large extent, it is a self-chosen marginalisation. Mahmud Abbas and his regime have deliberately refused to engage in any dialogue with the White House in recent years. The way in which the Palestinian leadership has chosen to act after the new agreements have been concluded also contributes to marginalisation. Unbalanced outcomes of treason and stabbing in the back have been combined with rash decisions such as leaving the rotating Presidency of the Arab League Council, in anger at the fact that the Arab League Member States have not unitedly supported the condemnation of the peace agreements with Israel. For too long Mahmud Abbas and other anti-Semitic Palestinian representatives have been allowed to put obstacles in the way of peace in the Middle East. From the British Peel Commission in 1937 to the UN's partition plan in 1947 and the peace agreements of recent decades, Palestinian leaders have dismissed elaborate settlements and proposals for a two-state solution. Both in Camp David 2000 and in the Annapolis process in 2007 the Palestinians were offered an independent state, including 90 percent of the West Bank and with East Jerusalem as its capital. And yet they said no. It goes without saying that negotiations with the Palestinians are both inevitable and desirable. But it will not be possible until leadership is in place which unequivocally recognises Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state and which once and for all puts an end to terrorism. Without a Palestinian leadership that breaks with Hamas, with Islamic jihad, with Hizb ollah and other terrorists – without a clear will to negotiate and compromise – there will be no settlements. Mr President, I would like to The closeness between Israel and important Arab countries shows that a new time has come. Contrary to conventional wisdom, it is possible to normalize relations and make peace in the Middle East without starting with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. There is every reason to welcome this to the outside world. What we see is a development which, in the long run, means greater security for both Israel and its neighbours and for the whole of the Middle East. That, Mr President, is basically what the current normalisation is about. To this normalization – to these peace agreements – the Swedish government has demonstrated a strange attitude. Through a few words on Twitter, the obligation has been announced that what is happening now is to be welcomed. But there is no commitment, no recognition of the courageous political decisions that have been taken, no support for a continued process and for more peace agreements in this spirit. Mr President, I would like to This is not good enough. It is an irrelevant, one-sided and dated political stance, which reinforces what I began by saying: Sweden needs a new Middle East policy.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1200	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the committee's report to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to The war in Syria is now in its tenth year. The conflict between Israel and Palestine has been going on for many decades. And in Yemen, since 2015, there has been a war that the UN has described as the worst in the world. Human suffering is enormous and the hope of a brighter future difficult to grasp. To continue working for fruitful peace talks in order to achieve a political solution is the way forward. The task has proved more than difficult. The blocking of the UN Security Council on some of the issues is not helpful. Peace talks have been held. And I wish half of those who sat around the tables were women. It is no guarantee that an agreement had been reached. But other perspectives, experiences and suggestions for solutions had been there. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take a start in the feminist foreign policy that the government has successfully pursued since 2014 and the principles it lays down on equal rights, representation and resources and the impact it has on efforts towards global equality and the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls around the world. War is a reality for many people today. To live on the run, to have been injured, raped and lost loved ones as part of wars and conflicts is everyday life. Women and children are particularly vulnerable in wars. Women's low status in many communities and traditional gender roles are often at the root of women's particular vulnerability. In wars and conflicts, women often live in a very difficult situation. It is often the women's responsibility to take care of the family and make sure that food is on the table. At the same time, women are affected by the violence that is spreading in the wake of the war. Women are subjected to abuse such as rape and abuse as part of warfare. Mr President, I would like to UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was adopted unanimously in 2000 by the UN Security Council. Seven subsequent resolutions were subsequently adopted. Together, the eight resolutions constitute the international agenda for women, peace and security. The resolutions state that the increased participation of women in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts as well as in post-conflict peace building and reconstruction is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable and international peace and security. Women in countries in war and conflict work for peace every day with good results, but often with little recognition. Studies show that inclusive peace processes are the best. But the formal and international peace efforts are still not equal. According to UN Women figures, between 1992 and 2019 women represented on average 13% of negotiators, 6% of mediators and 6% of signatories in major peace processes worldwide. Seven out of ten peace processes do not include female mediators or female signatories. Worldwide, the proportion of peace agreements written on gender equality increased from 14 to 22 per cent between 1995 and 2019. Peace efforts in 2020 also struggled to include women. For example, women represented only about 10% of negotiators in the Afghan peace talks, 20% of negotiators in Libya's political discussions and 0% of negotiators in Libya's military talks and in Yemen's latest process. A current peace process is led by a female chief broker. It is Stephanie William who is acting head of the UN support mission in Libya, marking that it is the first time in six years that a woman has this role. Mr President, I would like to During the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict, women have been driving the peace movement, and many times Israeli and Palestinian women have stood side by side in demonstrating for peace. Female activists and leaders were essential catalysts for the peace process leading up to the Oslo Accord. But a quarter of a century later, research shows how marginalization of women may have weakened the prospects for lasting peace. In order to achieve sustainable peace, it is important that women from both sides are once again given greater influence and meaningful inclusion and participation in the peace talks. Inclusive delegations and meaningful participation of women in all future peace negotiations between Palestine and Israel must therefore be ensured. Operation 1325 writes in its policy recommendations on Syria that since the war in Syria started in 2011, there have been several peace negotiations. But women's participation in peace negotiations has been marginal and only encouraged on an ad hoc basis. Although the current UN Special Envoy for Syria has contributed to the establishment of the Women 中s Advisory Board, which consists of women representing civil society and which the Emissory regularly consults, the Women's Advisory Board has not yet participated in formal peace negotiations. It is also important to ensure the participation of Syrian women, like all women, in peace negotiations. It is not just a matter of numerical representation, but participation should be meaningful and actually lead to influence in decision-making. In relation to this, Syrian women's rights activists report that they lack sufficient information to influence ongoing negotiations. Women's participation is also important in the reconstruction work, including transition mechanisms, criminal proceedings, truth commissions and institutional reforms in Syria. Mr President, I would like to The meaningful participation of Yemeni women in future peace negotiations is crucial for long-term sustainable peace. Despite the efforts of UN Women to establish a Women's Pact, women's participation in the negotiations has been low and concentrated mainly on side meetings, in parallel with the official peace talks. Feminist foreign policy has a clear focus on strengthening women as actors for peace and security. Women's influence and meaningful participation in peace and security is a matter of rights – and an issue of efficiency. Like democracy, peace is not possible if half the population does not participate and does not enjoy the same rights, representation and resources as the other half. Therefore, feminist foreign policy and the work for peace, human rights, democracy and the rule of law go hand in hand. It is also about pushing for changes in stereotypical gender roles, masculinity standards and patriarchal structures and normalizing gender equality. Men and boys should be involved in preventing conflict and combating gender-based and sexual violence. Mr President, I would like to Making change requires courage, perseverance and political will. Sweden should have clear political leadership in pushing the agenda for women, peace and security and bringing about concrete change together with other partners and globally. Peace processes must be inclusive. We have all the knowledge – let's use it to push for change, improvement, peace and faith in the future! Inclusive peace processes open up more possible solutions, become better anchored and more sustainable. It is more than time for women to have the same place and influence and to be listened to in peace negotiations and all processes relating to peace and security. Who knows – maybe we can achieve a sustainable peace in the Middle East?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1217	Mr President, I would like to In 2009, the Congress of the Social Democrats decided to recognise the genocide in 1915. In 2010, the Swedish Parliament decided to address an announcement to the government about recognising the genocide in 1915. In 2014, the current Prime Minister, Social Democrat Stefan Löfven, promised his Social Democratic voters in Södertälje that the genocide of 1915 would be recognised in government positions. Shortly thereafter, in 2018– yes, it was a few years after – Stefan Löfven announced that this was not the case. Mr President, I would like to I wonder what it's like for Pyry Niemi when you're backing off this line. There are voters who have relatives from the ethnic groups who were brutally murdered, and all of a sudden you cannot honour them by doing something as simple as acknowledging that this genocide has been committed when you are in government. How do you feel about Pyry Niemi? Does he share the widespread criticism that several other Social Democratic municipal peaks have directed against Stefan Löfven and the government?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1219	Mr President, I would like to I say, as the committee has said for several years: the committee's principle is still that historical events should be defined through research, free debate and judicial trials. I support the committee's view on this issue.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1220	Mr President, I would like to Should we interpret this as denying the genocide of 1915?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1221	Mr President, I would like to I repeat: I support the Committee's view of principle that historical events should be defined through research, free debate and judicial trials.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1222	Mr President, I would like to I note that in his speech, Mr Niemi did not mention the religious persecution in the Middle East with a single word. There was nothing about the persecution of Christians. There was nothing about the genocide carried out by the Islamic State in 2014. There was nothing about going into what is Christendom's cradle to a situation where Christianity and Christian cultural heritage are disappearing. This is a development we have seen for a long time. It's a development that's human, religious, political, reprehensible. It is a development that fundamentally affects us and the rest of the world, because this is ultimately about respect for religion, for people's right to practice their religion and for human dignity. During the years of Islamic state genocide in Iraq, not a single word was mentioned in the government's foreign declarations that Christians were victims. Now it is again the case that Mr Niemi does not mention the persecution of religion with a single word in his speech on the situation in the Middle East. I wonder why.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1225	Mr President, I would like to I note that Lars Adaktusson did not mention in a word women's participation in peace processes – and indeed women's rights – in the Middle East. But enough about it! Religious persecution is terrible. I want to be very clear about that to Lars Adaktusson. All people should have the right to practice their religion based on their own faith. There we are in complete agreement, and it is important to mark for me. Of course, those who commit atrocities against people who practice their religion must be tried in the International Criminal Court. We even have the right to judge people for genocide even in Swedish courts. We therefore fully agree that such persecution is not compatible with human rights and the freedom to practice their religion. That kind of persecution should be absolutely condemned; there, too, we are in complete agreement. The fact that I did not mention this in my speech had to do with putting my focus on women's participation in peace negotiations and in the processes that are going on in the Middle East. That is why I did not bring it up on this occasion. At the same time, however, I note that Lars Adaktusson did not mention anything about women's participation in peace processes. Why didn't Lars Adaktusson?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1228	Mr President, I would like to I think it is excellent that Mr Niemi is addressing these issues. These are important questions. Now, however, that is not what we were going to discuss, but what I mentioned was religious persecution. I wouldn't have brought it up unless this was a pattern and a behavior we see all the time. It is an act that is hard to understand when one considers the enormous suffering involved and the consequences. It is hard to understand that during the four years, 2014 – 2018, when this repression, persecution and genocide were at their worst, there was no room to even mention that Christians were being persecuted and that Christians were the victims of the genocide. There was no room in a single line to mention it in the Social Democratic foreign declarations. I understand that not all the issues can be addressed in all the speeches, but this is about a pattern, Pyry Niemi. It is a question of deliberately opting out of a terrible humanitarian situation, not mentioning it and not raising it, as so many other political assemblies have done, from the European Parliament to national parliaments all over the world. Statements have been made and resolutions adopted. It has condemned this and acted against it. You don't even mention it. It is a great disappointment, not only for me, but for all the people who follow developments in this area of horror.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1232	Mr President, I would like to Persecutions of people who practice their religion – regardless of their religion and whether they are Christians or Muslims – are horribly reprehensible. You should never persecute or murder people because they practice their religion; there we are in complete agreement. This is happening everywhere in the world today. We see persecution of Christians in some countries; we see persecution of Muslims in other countries. We see current conflicts where this occurs. Of course, that kind of persecution should be condemned, because freedom of religion is just as much a human right as other types of human rights. It should not be the case that people are persecuted and in certain situations – in many situations – perhaps also brutally murdered because they have a certain faith. In many situations this takes place in forms that we cannot even look at, because it is a matter of such brutal abuse. We are in complete agreement on this. In this case, however, it is also a matter of looking at the whole. To persecute people who are on the run and who have fled under threat of not being allowed to practice their religion, I am prepared to condemn– I think it is terrible that this is happening. But it is about all religious groups and the right of all religious groups to exercise their faith in a dignified and sensible way without being persecuted.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1235	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for Pyry Niemi. The first question is about how Pyry Niemi and the Social Democrats view the accountability of those who went down to Syria and Iraq in particular and participated in IS, or Daishs, atrocities and committed terrible crimes against humanity. Here it is important that it becomes a burden of responsibility. What does Pyry Niemi think about this? That's my one question. The second question is about Sweden's and Israel's, to say the least, frosty relations. If the relations were bad before, they became very bad when the government, completely without foundation in the Swedish parliament, recognised Palestine. I wonder how Mr Niemi views these bad relations and whether Mr Niemi sees that the government and the Social Democrats have a great responsibility to ensure that relations between Sweden and Israel are improved, that there can be fruitful cooperation and that our countries can have an exchange among themselves as two democracies.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1238	Mr President, I would like to Those who commit crimes or have committed crimes in Syria – or those who have travelled there on terrorist trips – and who, for example, can be proven to have done so in court, should be judged on the basis of the Court's actions. As I said in my previous speech, when they have returned to Sweden and have actually been proven to have committed crimes, they have also been convicted in Swedish courts. My view in principle is that it is not the parliament and the government that should judge this type of person. If it concerns Sweden, we have a free judiciary, a prosecutor's service that prosecutes and so on. That process is known to Margareta Cederfelt. If it can be proven that people have committed cruel crimes, committed genocide, persecuted Christians or other things in Syria and these people come back to Sweden, it is up to the prosecutor and the judiciary to handle the matter. As far as Israel is concerned, I do not think that relations are frosty. Nevertheless, I think that the Swedish Government has a good conversation with the Israeli Government. Then it is clear that it could have been better. We are in a situation where Sweden and Israel continue to have talks between governments. We have trade with Israel, and we also have exchanges in various other forms. Sweden still stands up for a two-state solution. Sweden stands up for Jerusalem, as the EU has said, to be a shared capital of Israel and Palestine unless Israel and Palestine agree on something else in peace negotiations. So I do not share the view that it is frosty, but it could have been better.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1244	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is not we politicians who judge people, Pyry Niemi, but courts. I haven't told you anything else. I have not talked about what penalties should be imposed or what the scale of penalties should be in this context. However, I have said that these people should be tried, or dealt with, in court. I would like to see people who have gone down to fight for IS also be sentenced – or that the case can be brought to court – on the ground in the country where the crimes have been committed. This is an important part of the justice process. On the second question I mentioned, about Israel, I would like to see better cooperation between Sweden and Israel. I do not think anything else but that the relationship is frosty and that there is no positive climate, and I find this very sad precisely because Israel is the only democracy in the region. Sweden would have a lot to gain from being able to collaborate on higher research, innovations and vaccines, for example when it comes to covid, because Israel has managed to vaccinate its population. There is another reason why I want to raise the relationship with Israel. We have a growing anti-Semitism in Sweden. This is where the government's actions are of great importance. One way to actually indicate that anti-Semitism does not belong in Sweden is for the government to develop cooperation with Israel.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1247	Mr President, I would like to I have no objection in substance to the possibility of those who commit crimes in Syria, for example, being tried there. If there is a functioning judicial system and there is an opportunity to find evidence on the ground, where people have been subjected to the crimes or where there is evidence of this, then it is more reasonable geographically to do so in the way that Margareta Cederfelt mentioned. That's where we're in complete agreement. Of course, nothing is so good that it cannot be improved. Relations with Israel can be improved; I am fully aware of that. I know very well that there may be a new entry into our talks with Israel. But it also requires, as in all bilateral talks, that the parties dance to the same music and think in a similar way in order for them to sit down at the negotiating table. Then we need to find areas where we can actually discuss and find good cooperation. It can certainly be about research; I think it is a very interesting area to reflect on. It can certainly also be around vaccine research, or why not vaccine manufacturing. Now, as Margareta Cederfelt knows, Sweden has made a joint procurement with the EU, so we are now behind it. But in the future it is certainly possible to find other collaborations on health care development between, for example, and in talks with, Sweden and Israel. I'm not ruling out anything. The most important thing for me is to set an agenda that feels achievable and that you have an ambition to find common solutions. It is important that, in this context, Israel too, like us in Sweden, can meet in talks like this. That is why I believe that we are still in a position where there is a basis for dialogue. But everything can be improved.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1251	Mr President, I would like to When Mr Niemi chooses the feminist foreign policy as the starting point for her speech, one must actually ask how Yemen's women benefit from Sweden's greatly increasing arms exports and how it contributes to Resolution 1325, the Women's, Peace and Security Agenda. In the January agreement, the government parties and the Liberals and the Center Party have entered in paragraph 70 that your principle is that there should be no arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition warring in Yemen. The agreement was concluded in 2019. Sweden exported the previous year for 700 million. In 2019 they exported 11⁄2 billion, and last year they exported 3.3 billion. Why is this? Well, that's because you have something called Global Eye and have approved such an export to the United Arab Emirates. One fifth of Swedish arms exports now go to the Saudi-led coalition also with paragraph 70 inscribed. This is because, among other things, the Swedish Government has never made a decision on paragraph 70. It has never been pointed out with the whole hand and said: this is the policy of the government. Instead, this is a document that you have with three other parties that do not apply. This makes Yemen's women have to wonder, because the feminist foreign policy is basically very good. But in the Middle East, of all places, which we are discussing here and now, the double standards of feminist foreign policy are clearer than anywhere else. The government also has the Presidency of the last Development Conference, which failed badly to achieve funding for Yemen's humanitarian needs on the basis of the war that is going on there. Yet the government beats its chest both for its policy in Yemen and for its policy in the Middle East. That's why I'm asking Pyry Niemi about this double standard.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1257	Mr President, I would like to I find it difficult to determine whether Swedish arms exports have affected the situation of women in Yemen and their participation in peace processes. I can't answer that right now. But perhaps Håkan Svenneling will have the answer in the next change of line, if he can say that Yemeni women in a simpler way have been able to take part in the peace processes. We have regulated arms exports, and Håkan Svenneling knows that very well. It is governed by clear authority, and there is a very strong test – probably one of the strongest in the world, I would like to emphasise. As a direct answer to the question, I can say: I do not know how women in Yemen have been affected by this. I have no idea. What I do know, however, is that Sweden supports Yemen and the peace efforts that are there. What I also know is that there is a great deal of support in terms of humanitarian, that is, financial support for the people of Yemen, from the Swedish side. Håkan Svenneling also knows this well. So I cannot answer the question as to whether Global Eye has prevented Yemeni women from participating actively in peace processes, as Håkan Svenneling suggests.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1261	Mr President, I would like to I mean from reports that I have read that Erieye and Global Eye have been instrumental in maintaining the blockade that the Saudi-led coalition has had against Yemen. It has made food, gasoline, fuel, and other supplies difficult for them to enter the country. Sweden has been active in a good way from the Swedish government in peace negotiations around Yemen, especially when it comes to access to the port of Hodeidah, which has been important for humanitarian supplies to reach Yemen and to the capital Sana. It is clear, however, that the blockade is there and that it has contributed to a great humanitarian suffering. Many people are starving and millions of children are having an incredibly difficult time right now. Pyry Niemi is a bit of a comeback kid here in tonight's debate as a former Foreign Affairs Committee member who is now back. That is why he did not hear the ISP draft in committee today. There, however, they raised two points concerning the Middle East which concern me. One was that in the letter that the government has just put on Parliament's table, it is clear that two new arms deliveries are approved to Saudi Arabia despite the government's announcement that it will be over. There are two permits linked to international cooperation. That's all you're gonna say, because it's classified, and I don't know anything more than that. But I do not understand why we should export more weapons to Saudi Arabia and to Saudi-led coalitions, especially when paragraph 70 exists and especially when a decision should be made in the government that the principled approach should actually apply in reality. The second is that there is no feminist foreign policy when you come to women and assessment. There, women are included as part of human rights, and then feminist foreign policy does not have an impact. Here the government can do more, and that is what I hope for. I hope that Mr Niemis's fine and beautiful words about feminist foreign policy will also be put into practice when it comes to Yemen's women, when it comes to arms exports to Saudi Arabia and when it comes to assessing where to deliver weapons.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1269	Mr President, I would like to I take note of what Håkan Svenneling says about feminist foreign policy, because there are many different steps that need to be taken. Of course, you might find it strange that a country up in the Nordic countries as Sweden as the first country in the world expresses a feminist foreign policy. I can legitimately argue that it has made an impression in many countries, and I believe that Håkan Svenneling is also aware of this. It has made its mark in many parliaments and also in a great many governments. Then the conclusion may be that in some local areas, for example, or in regions, it will be difficult to pursue feminist foreign policy. But there must also be little effort to achieve the big steps. It is just as Håkan Svenneling says: Sweden has been very active in gaining humanitarian access to Yemen. Håkan Svenneling knows that very well. We have acted actively, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very active in these issues. I regret that, in such a situation, we are not reaching full ground with the feminist foreign policy to support the millions of people who have ended up in very difficult situations in Yemen based on the current circumstances and on the war that is going on there. But that has been done, and there are still strong attempts, and it is also being contributed financially and humanitarianly to allay the need and perhaps in the long term to bring about a long-term peace. I was not on the agenda today, so it would be to emphasize myself to say what I know or do not know in the question. I have not read the documents, and I have no idea what is behind the confidentiality of the two shipments that you mention to be carried out. I know a lot about a lot of things, but I leave this question unanswered.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1275	Mr President, I would like to As we look at this report, which I first heard referred to as a motion report from several years, and listen to the debate, it is more like we would have had a committee report covering the whole of the Middle East with all its different complex realities. Actually, that's not the case. You can see, Mr President, if you read the report that there are motion proposals for a peace force to the Strait of Hormuz and for the establishment of a safe zone to protect ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria. Such issues have so far not been included in this debate. These are other issues that attract the most attention. I am happy to start in the historical context that also my colleague Håkan Svenneling started with, about the Middle East as the cradle of civilization. That's really the way it is, isn't it? There is a history that is many thousands of years old, with many different empire builders who have been around in the area. It is a history of war and conflict and of the birth of different religions. We have also experienced changes in the Middle East in the last century to what we see now. After World War I and World War II, the Middle East was created more or less according to the structure we see today on the map. However, I would like to highlight the Kurdish people. The Kurdish people are still spreading across several countries – Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Syria. It is indeed a challenge to find an inclusive process in the Middle East peace process to ensure that the Kurdish people have their rightful share of democracy and human rights. What has happened in the Middle East and is still happening today is characterised by many conflicts and wars. Syria, mentioned, has had ten years of war. Hundreds of thousands of deaths have been claimed. 14 million people are on the run. Unheard of crimes have been committed by the terror cult Daish in both Syria and Iraq. It is a fight that we are still trying to bring to this day with our presence in Iraq in order to build the conditions for peace and opportunities for development, regardless of which religion you belong to. In this work, it is also important to highlight what we have emphasised in the committee's report, namely the importance of ensuring that impunity does not prevail. I think it is right and proper for us to be involved in gathering evidence. Our participation in the UN evidence gathering mechanism for crimes committed in Syria and crimes committed by Daish in Iraq is valuable and important in order to bring justice to all those affected. It is of course also important that we contribute with investigators from the Police Authority to Unitad and that we may also find a cooperation agreement that will enable us to use their evidence even in Sweden if that is the case. It's about giving people the opportunity to move forward through a legal process and get their case tried, hopefully via the ICC. We have called on Iraq to do so. Syria would be associated with the ICC so that it would be possible to have the questions examined in this way. We shall see if, in due course, it is also possible to have a UN resolution which might refer this to a special tribunal. Many people with different religious and ethnic backgrounds have been hit extremely hard by what has happened during Daish's ravages most recently. In this context, I would also like to underline what we in committee are writing about Syria and a political solution in the near future. Such is not likely, but there are hopes. A political solution is the only prerequisite for moving forward and also for us to be able to participate in reconstruction. That is indeed the case: when a comprehensive, credible and inclusive political transition process is negotiated between those involved in the Syrian conflict, we can also be involved in supporting reconstruction. We're not gonna take the costs. We are not going to take it upon ourselves to build up what Russia and others have now crushed. It's important. A solution in place; then we will be able to participate. The debate has also raised questions about Israel – the Palestine conflict. It is clear to us that in a region such as the Middle East, characterised by authoritarian states, Israel is the exception. Israel is a democracy, although democracy in Israel has challenges. We see this when you strangle the possibilities of various organisations to operate and other things. It is, of course, a signal that is not good. On our part, it is important to emphasise that we want to see a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict involving two states. We also see a negotiated solution as possible in order to clear up border crossings and Jerusalem as the capital of two states. That presupposes that we get good political leadership. We hope that we can have an election in Palestine that will create the conditions for that. Of course, we also hope that we have a political leadership in Israel that creates the conditions for such solutions. We regret in a special opinion, Mr President, that Sweden chose to recognise Palestine in a way that did not promote the conditions for Sweden to be able to participate in a peace process. With the way that recognition came about, it became counterproductive. We are among the first to regret this, and we do so in the committee's report in a separate opinion. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved, Mr President.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1289	Mr President, I would like to When debating the Middle East, I think it is important to start with what is most central. Apart from Israel, at least if you look at most of the region, the rulers have tried a number of different political systems over the years. It has attempted religious dictatorship, secular dictatorship, fascism, ethnonationalism, chemicalism, panarabism, communism, Islamic republics, colonial monarchies, mafia rule, caliphate and emirat. However, there is one system that has never been tried in most countries in the region, namely liberal democracy. Liberals in Europe are in parliament. In the Middle East, liberals are more often in prison. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that if it does not become a stronger foundation for values such as liberalism, democracy, secularism, progressive values in social life, equality and so on, it will be impossible for the Middle East region to emerge from the destructive, very bloody, brutal and violent spiral that has characterised large parts of the region for a very long time – several hundred years in practice. In addition, a rather good illustration of the problems, not least for minorities in the Middle East region, is the situation of the Christian population. A hundred years ago, Christians made up somewhere between 10 and 20 percent of the inhabitants of the Middle East region. Today it's a little shard. Most of them are in Egypt, the Coptic population, and there is a dynamic Christian population that is quite large, relative in any case, in Lebanon. There are also Christians in Israel, around Erbil and the Ankawa region in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq, and in Syria there are some as well. Pogroms and purges against Christians at the end of the 19th century, culminating in the genocide of Armenians, Assyrians and Syrians during the First World War and then triggering an emigration, flight and so on until the great purges of the Islamic state in the present, the Iran and Iraq wars and the consequences of the invasion of Iraq in 2003– all of this has led us to see in real time, right in front of our eyes, how a multi-thousand-year civilization is torn up with its roots. It is impossible to view the situation of Christendom in the Middle East merely as individuals leaving. This must be seen in the context of the fact that it is a civilization, an indigenous people, that a masse has made exodus from the region. The first churches were built in Levanten and Mesopotamia 2,000 years ago. Today, these churches are built on the ground in Botkyrka instead. It is a sign of this tremendous tragedy. If we look at other minority groups, we see similar fates in different ways. It can look different for different groups. They are large to varying degrees. Some can defend themselves and others cannot, but it is an extremely difficult situation for many minority groups in Iran, Iraq, Syria and elsewhere. What is at the heart of open, liberal society in the broad sense – one does not have to call oneself liberal, but one might just as well be a fairly good environmental party or Christian Democrat – that is, democratic society which has a far too weak base in the Middle East as a result of dictatorship and oppression is tolerance. The core is tolerance to what is different, to other religions and other directions, to those who may be physically weaker and to those who are unarmed and so on. It is tolerance that is the key word in this. You don't create tolerance just with free choices. You don't create tolerance just by having a new constitution. Tolerance develops through enlightenment, education and other types of values. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say that in a few days' time, a new round of trials will begin in Turkey against Kurdish politicians, not least Selahattin Demirtaş, who is the leader of the Kurdish party HDP. Selahattin Demirtaş received approximately 10 per cent of the voters' votes in the elections in Turkey in 2014– 2015. He was arrested four and a half years ago and has been in prison ever since. It is extremely important that Sweden is very clear in the requirement for Demirtaş to be released. The purpose of Turkey to keep him prisoner is, of course, to clear a competitor of Erdo中an out of the way. But the aim is also, in practice, to terrorise the whole Kurdish issue. That is the long-term objective: to try to link the Kurdish issue to terrorism all the time through these kinds of prosecutions against Kurdish politicians. It is completely unreasonable and something that the outside world cannot accept in any way. At the same time, Mr President, it should be said that Turkish state power has gradually retreated from its official policy of denial. In the 80's, the Turkish official stance was like this: There are no Kurds. Then what are they? people said, and they said, "We call them mountain Turks." Then, in the 90s, the Turkish side softened a little and said: We admit that the Kurds actually exist, but there is nothing called the Kurdish language – they have no language of their own. But what is it? people wondered, and they replied: It is a local dialect of Turkish. To be honest, it is about as clever as claiming that Finnish would be a dialect of Swedish. Then the Turkish government softened a bit further and said: Yes, but we admit that the Kurds exist, and the Kurds also have their own language – but there is nothing called Kurdistan. Now we arrive around 2000 – 2005. It was only then that a Kurdistan was formed, namely a federal region in northern Iraq. Then the Turkish government had to retreat a little more and said this: Yes, the Kurds are there, we agree to that. And they also have their own language, we accept that. In fact, there is also Kurdistan, but not in Turkey, but only in northern Iraq. There's this question somewhere now. Turkey is shuddering and twisting and turning about how to deal with the Kurdish question, but the only answer that is always being found is more repression, more harshness and more brutality. It continues to drive Turkey into a dead end. Here, Sweden and the European Union must be extremely clearer, not least because Turkey is in fact a candidate country. Mr President, I would like to There are, of course, a number of other areas that can be addressed in this kind of speech. We can talk about repression in Iran, the terrible wars in Syria, Libya, Yemen and so on. We can also talk about the breakdown, the oppression of women, the situation of sexual minorities, children growing up in refugee camps without hope and dreams, radicalisation, Daish ravages and much more that I unfortunately do not have time to mention in this speech right now.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1309	Mr President, I would like to We are nearing the end of this debate, almost 24 hours later than we originally thought. I'd like to pick up a few things that we might still have in common. For example, we want the Middle East to develop into a stable, democratic and prosperous region. The UN and the EU have a very important role to play in achieving this. We are also all well aware that many of the conflicts in the Middle East are being used by other parties to achieve their own interests and that it is blocking the work of the UN in the region. The Middle East is a region with few and inadequate democracies. It is therefore particularly important that Sweden contributes with long-term aid to strengthen democracy and human rights, including within the framework of the UN and the EU. Aid is needed, especially in countries with difficult conditions for civil society. Although it is in difficulty, the international community needs to ensure that the inhabitants of the many more or less permanent refugee camps in the Middle East receive training and the best possible prospects. Sweden will of course support democratic elections, peace processes and mediation in the region. It is crucial for the region that states in the region and the outside world focus on its development, cultural exchange and trade and act in the best interests of the region. It is becoming increasingly clear both to the states in the region and to outside assessors that those parts of the economy that are not concerned with the extraction and sale of oil must be developed. This can, for example, be about renewable energy production, knowledge and modern technology linked to it. However, in order to be an attractive place for companies that are part of global technological infrastructure, such as IT and energy, the reliability of states is increasingly required. States with a lack of democracy and human rights are not reliable as trading partners. That is why a developed democracy is crucial. It is critical for the democratic development of the EU's close neighbourhood that the EU consistently stands up for democracy and human rights. It can therefore be important for the EU to adopt a law on human rights and environmental due diligence, that companies should be obliged to account for the impact of their products on human rights in the countries that buy them. In this way, companies in the Middle East that produce goods and services for the European market must also have a production that protects human rights and the environment. On the basis of human rights, democracy and freedom, the outlook in the Middle East is still disappointing. The war in Syria has been going on since 2011. The war in Yemen is in its seventh year. In Palestine another generation grows up in refugee camps. In Iran, the human rights situation is very serious. In Turkey, the political party HDP is banned, leaving the Istanbul Convention. Minorities are oppressed, the principles of the rule of law are violated, women's rights are violated and freedom of expression is restricted. The freedom of the media is also limited. It is an area of the world where it is particularly difficult for the media to operate. Not for any of the conflicts in the Middle East is a simple solution within reach. Achieving peace and reconciliation requires broad and inclusive political processes and long-term sustainable political solutions to the conflicts that have so long destabilised this part of the world. In the report, the committee stresses the importance of Sweden and the EU being involved in helping to resume meaningful negotiations between Israel and Palestine and that there is no viable alternative to a two-state solution. Both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to freedom, development and security within safe and recognised borders. Violent behaviour is one of the main obstacles to conflict resolution. The committee notes in the report that the EU, the UN and Sweden reject both terrorism and disproportionate violence. Sweden supports the process through assistance to the poor and vulnerable in Palestine and in the refugee camps and through support to strengthen institutions, democracy and civil society. The solution to the conflict in Syria is political, and the committee stresses the importance of the international community acting together to reach a solution. The committee reiterates the importance of the UN Security Council assuming its responsibility for a peaceful solution in Syria and notes that the Security Council has been too passive for a long time. The committee expresses support for a political process facilitated by the UN and results in credible and inclusive transitional government in Syria, the adoption of a new constitution and the holding of free and democratic elections. The Government's regional strategy for the Syrian crisis is an important tool to help alleviate the consequences of the conflict in Syria and for the Syrian population. Sweden is also one of the largest donors of humanitarian aid in the Syria crisis. Documentation of war crimes is very important in all conflicts but perhaps especially in conflicts such as that in Syria, where the regime is bombing its own population. Although the international community cannot agree on effective measures, the risk of being convicted of war crimes is something that will disturb the sleep of any leader who violates human rights. Documentation also provides the opportunity for fair trials. It is important that Sweden continues to work to improve the situation in the camps in Syria and that those in the camps are brought to justice if they are suspected of crime. Children should also be given the protection to which all children are entitled. It includes the prospect of a good future. Sweden's development cooperation, our support for conflict victims, should be characterised by a rights perspective and poor people's perspective on development. The perspective of rights means that human rights and democracy should be seen as fundamental for development. This report also raises humility in the face of the difficult tasks facing those most affected by these long-standing conflicts. This also applies to the difficulties of the international community in providing the necessary support for people who wake up every day in the midst of these conflicts to see a brighter future. Mr President, I would like to In doing so, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the report.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1328	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps one issue is particularly topical when discussing the Middle East and the major problems that we see there. It is about what the government calls feminist foreign policy. It is a region where we see widespread violations of what we would see as fundamental women's rights and freedoms, if you say so. There are a number of examples of the government acting in a way that, from my point of view, does not at all promote the situation of women. We have discussed in several other debates that aid is being channelled to organisations that do not stand for women's rights. Camilla mentioned something in her speech that is why I am standing here right now. It concerns the Syria strategy. The war in Syria has shocked us all. We have all somehow touched on the war in Syria in our speeches here today. One of the reasons is the ruthless actors in the region. But one thing that is rarely discussed is the Swedish strategy to promote vulnerable people, not least women and children, in Syria. The Swedish Syria Strategy is largely based on channelling aid to neighbouring countries, around Syria. Refugee camps in countries around Syria are therefore supported, but it does not go very directly to the women and children who are in Syria, which is in fact the majority of the refugees. My simple question to Camilla Hansén is whether she sees any problems with the Swedish Syria strategy.
i-DGy7ZpWEhvxPuBAE1iZ4w1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the question! I believe that the Swedish Syria Strategy is important. It supports people in Syria but also countries around it. Many who are fleeing Syria are in the countries around them. It is clear that Sweden's aid and aid should be put in the right place at all, in order to provide support to those who really need it. That is the important thing about Sweden's aid in the world and to conflict-affected people.
i-9TtyeZx4KNNsgHutYg4A87	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for your answer! This is what's a little interesting. The government is happy to say that you should target the support where it is needed and that those with the greatest need should get it. But the government's policy shows a completely different one in reality. The Syria strategy is a pretty clear sign of that. It supports not only a Swedish but also an EU-wide strategy that limits the possibility of, for example, supporting vulnerable people in Syria. It is clear that one should try to avoid money falling into the wrong hands, for example with the regime. However, we see widespread problems with the fact that one cannot operate in Syria. It is, however, where most of the Syrian refugees are. Although very many also go to neighbouring countries, the vast majority are in fact still in the country. This is exactly what's complicated. Now I unwittingly went into what was my second question. Does Camilla Hansén see any problem with the sanctions being imposed there? Or could they be loosened in order to reach the women and children in Syria?
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1338	Mr President, I would like to The Syria Strategy can also support people in Syria and around Syria. It is important to be able to do both. Naturally, it is difficult to operate in conflict countries. Markus Wiechel says that it is difficult in some parts of Syria, and that can certainly be true. Sanctions are a complex subject. We have sanctions because we want to mark against errors, but it is also important that sanctions are actually used in the right situations and targeted at the right people and not affect the civilian population. I think it could happen anyway.
i-04ef4adcce141dc4-1341	Mr President, I would like to Now that I am going to make this evening's last speech, I will focus entirely on the refugee situation in the Middle East. Over the past two decades, the number of people fleeing as a result of war or persecution has increased from around 34 million in 1997 to around 80 million in 2019, according to the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR). Thus, the number of people on the run has far more than doubled. The biggest increase has occurred in recent years, mainly due to the war in Syria that broke out in 2011. This has been mentioned earlier here this evening. Over 6.6 million Syrians have fled the country. Of them, about 118 000 are asylum seekers. In addition, barely 6.2 million people are on the run within Syria. This means that over 12 million people are on the run in the area just because of the war in Syria. 3.6 million refugees there are in Turkey. In addition, we have mentioned during the debate, for example, the war in Yemen and the situation in Somalia, Iran and Iraq, which also generates a lot of refugees. Less than 1 per mil of the 12 million Syrian refugees are asylum seekers. That says something. The vast majority of these refugees are therefore waiting for the situation to be stabilised so that they can return home. But in the meantime, years after years of life pass by. We have all seen pictures from the gigantic refugee camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, where children play in clay puddles between endless rows of tents, sometimes in the blazing sun and sometimes in snowslake. The environment is, to say the least, poor. The schooling is flawed. The parents are abandoned if they are alive and present at all. This isn't a good environment. The risks of further violence and extremism being fattened are extremely high. The dense rows in the tent camps risk being a breeding ground for infectious diseases. In the event of fire, disaster is a fact. It is therefore important to make extensive humanitarian efforts, not only to provide the refugees with water and food for the day and a blanket to pull over when the night cold is creeping on, but also to safeguard human dignity. Children need a good education so that they can maintain the hope of a brighter future. Adults need meaningful employment. Their skills need to be exploited, both in the refugee camp and in society at large. They need to get started with their lives, be included and become active citizens of society, become part of civil society in the country where they are waiting for the situation to calm down in their home country. After all, there are a number of refugees who do not live in refugee camps near the border but live in cities around the countries and have ordinary civilian jobs. In this way they become part of society and contribute their skills. That is where we should be pursuing our refugee policy. Those countries that have become hosting millions of refugees without fault need, of course, the support of the international community to deal with the acute humanitarian crisis. At present, no one dares to predict when the war in Syria, for example, will calm down so that the refugees can begin to return. Therefore, host countries need to be encouraged and also supported to include refugees in local communities. In this way it can contribute to the development of both the individual refugee and the host country. Mr President, I would like to We are dealing with the Middle East today, but the situation with refugees in large numbers is just as topical in Africa, Asia and Latin America. These are some of the reasons why the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should continue with generous and effective aid. This is not the time to cut back on aid, but to improve and calibrate it so that it is right and can help to reduce conflicts and build peace, democracy and strong civil societies, where the population has human rights and freedoms, health care and good conditions for the development of women and men, and for girls and boys.
