i-ccc35fd96e60b744-5	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked the Minister for Finance about the government's work on implementing the EU's disposable plastic directive. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Tobias Andersson wonders whether the government will take steps to proceed with the memo on the implementation of the EU's disposable plastic directive and other measures for sustainable plastic use, or whether the government will take measures to stop this plastic tax, as the questioner calls the proposed littering fee. Tobias Andersson has also asked whether the government will take steps to overcome the problems raised by the referral bodies. Furthermore, Tobias Andersson has asked what measures the government will take to ensure that the proposed fee is better correlated with the actual cost of municipal waste management, so that it meets the directive's requirements for cost-effectiveness, transparency and proportionality. The memorandum on how to implement the Single-Plastic Directive has been consulted, and the work is now being prepared to take into account, among other things, the comments received during this referral. The proposal for a littering levy is not intended to constitute a tax but is based on the requirement of the disposable plastic directive for producers to pay for the handling of waste arising from their products. The purpose of the consultation procedure is to highlight the possible consequences of a proposal if it is implemented. After referral, all comments are considered, and the matter is then prepared within the Government Office to take account of the comments. How and what changes may be made is too early to say because the matter is under preparation. The EU Directive requires producers to provide full cost recovery for the litter resulting from the littering of their products. Sweden, together with all the other Member States, has supported this directive in its entirety. If the referral points will result in adjustments to the fee proposed in the memo is still too early to say, as the referrals are still being analysed and the matter is still being prepared within the Government Office. There is also currently a lack of precise data on the costs to municipalities of littering. According to the submitted proposal, the fee will be reviewed as soon as possible after implementation and thus adjusted after the municipalities have reported on their costs and a new waste measurement has been carried out. The implementation of the disposable plastic directive and other measures for the sustainable use of disposable plastic are part of the work agreed by the government and the cooperation parties the Center Party and the Liberals in the January Agreement. Plastic litter is the main source of microplastics in the oceans, and the government is therefore taking this issue very seriously.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Swedish Democrats are the party in this House that has strongly opposed the continuing movement of power from individual Member States to the EU. We have repeatedly opposed the swelling of the EU and the increase in supranationality and costs. Madam President, I would like This is nothing new, but with that said, I would like to say that there are issues that we believe should be on the table of the European Union. These are cross-border issues where cooperation allows for more efficient work and better results. Trade is probably the clearest issue, but then there will probably be climate and environmental work. Against this background, Madam President, the single-use plastic directive of the European Union does not have to be a bad thing. On the contrary, it can be a good thing; this could be just such an issue that deserves to be discussed at European level. Unfortunately, however, we see repeatedly how the government succeeds in implementing the directives that could have been good in a way that makes them bad. I am not alone in my view on this – on the contrary, a majority in the Swedish Parliament has addressed announcements to the government to stop overimplementing EU directives. Simply: Stop taking what could have been good and complicate it by adding additional burdens for Swedish traders or citizens! Try to start from what the directive actually requires without doing more than that! Unfortunately, the government has not listened to the Riksdag. That is why, Madam President, I and many people are concerned about what the government might do with the disposable plastic directive when implementing it. This is illustrated not least by the fact that a number of consultative bodies strongly criticise the Government's memorandum Implementation of the EU Single Plastics Directive and other measures for the sustainable use of plastics. First of all, they criticise the weak link between the proposed producer liability fee imposed on industry and the service provided to businesses in return. The Government proposes that they or the authority they propose be given a mandate to provide regulations on the obligation for producers to pay fees to cover the general costs of the management of waste that has been littered and information on littering or otherwise be financially responsible for waste management and management information. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Entrepreneurs and the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce are some consultation bodies that believe that the link between fee and service is so weak that the fee is in fact a tax. Taxes are adopted in Sweden through laws adopted by the Riksdag, while fees can be levied through regulations. The Government memo proposes that the fee – or tax, as I would describe it – should be levied through a regulation. This has caused much criticism of the proposal. I interpret Per Bolund's somewhat insidious response as the Government's intention to proceed with the proposal from the memo. This would mean that the government would completely withdraw from established practice and order by introducing taxes by decree without parliamentary approval. Against this background, I would like to ask the Government to tell us why the memo advocates such a general authorisation and whether he can promise that the Government will take account of the very serious criticism that has been levelled at the new litter charge.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-24	Madam President, I would like I can share Tobias Andersson's view that the Swedish Democrats stand out in Sweden's parliament when it comes to opposition to the EU. Unfortunately, I can also say that the Swedish Democrats stand out when it comes to strongly combating measures for a clean environment, which is something that I very much regret. I have lost count of how many debates I have had here with Swedish democrats who constantly want to weaken environmental work and do less to protect our environment. This is something that worries me and which I find somewhat difficult to reconcile with what the Swedish Democrats say is their ideology, i.e. to protect our country against negative influences, for example. We know that environmental and climate impact is one of the biggest threats facing our country, but the Swedish democrats are missing in this work. There does not seem to be an end to how many reasons there are to discourage and say no to various forms of environmental regulation and legislation. In this case, as Tobias Andersson probably knows, a directive has been adopted at European level. Directives decided at EU level are to be implemented in Sweden, so the answer to that question is that we will implement the disposable plastic directive. However, it is equally obvious that we do not send referrals for fun or for show, but we send referrals just to get comments from the referral bodies and be able to take them into account in the implementation. This is what we are doing now. We have received referrals from over 100 referral bodies. The answers are mostly positive, unlike the picture given by Tobias Andersson. Then there are, of course, comments, as they do in all consultation sessions, even in this case. They are included in the further work. However, I think it is simply wrong to describe this as a tax. It is, of course, a fee, which is also decided at European level. It is in line with the basic principle that governs environmental work, i.e. that the polluter should pay: polluter pays-principle en. In the same way that we pay the cleaning fee for the municipality to take care of the waste we produce at home, it is in this case that, for various reasons, it ensures that products that contribute to littering come onto the market that will be financed. That is the fundamental principle, which is very clear in the directive, so that principle will also be implemented. However, as I said, we are still preparing the details of the Government Office. I would really like to stress how important it is not to reduce the work on plastic litter, which is one of the major threats facing Sweden and our planet. It is important to remember that 150 million tonnes of plastic have already accumulated in the oceans and that every year approximately 8 million tonnes of plastic are added to the oceans because of inadequate handling of, not least, plastic that ends up on our streets. This is not a problem that is someone else's somewhere else, as some people tend to say, but it is a problem for Sweden as well as for all other countries. Last year, a national litter measurement was carried out over a week. During the measurement, a total of 35 million debris were found in streets and squares and in nature. This is not an acceptable development. We simply need to take action. Then it would be fantastic if we had the Swedish Democrats as the cheerers and that they made suggestions on how we can do more to reduce plastic litter. Instead, we must devote a great deal of debate to the fact that the Swedish democrats question and want to delay and delay the work for a clean planet. There is something I really have to say I am sorry.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-34	Madam President, I would like One can, of course, support effective climate and environmental work without advocating the various symbolic taxes of the Green Party in this area. Per Bolund notes that a number of referrals have been positive, which is not surprising given how selective the government has been in the selection of referrals. For example, even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise was not asked to give its opinion, although this undoubtedly concerns their industry and their member companies. Then it is no wonder that you get positive referral responses. To be honest, Madam President, it is not serious to represent the government and then duck all questions about the government's own memos by referring to an ongoing analysis of the responses of the referral bodies. Per Bolund must at least be able to argue for the design of the memorandum. How did the government reason? What was the government thinking? Or did the government not reason and think at all, in view of how the memorandum was designed? The calculation model proposed by the government is strongly criticised by the consultation bodies and does not meet the requirements of the Single Plastics Directive. Per Bolund refers repeatedly to the one-time plastic directive as the reason for the memo. Yet the purpose of the one-off directive is being violated several times in the memorandum drawn up by the government. The fee shall be cost-effective, transparent and proportionate. This is not the case, however, according to the consultation bodies. It fails on all these points. Even the government's own favourite, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, discourages the system of littering fees and believes that the only proposal does is to move the cost of cleaning from municipality to producer. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that there is a risk that the littering fee can provide lopsided incentives in municipal cleaning work, as infrastructure (destination bins) and emptying are financed through municipal funds, while cleaning up will be partly financed through the littering fee. The current proposal could lead municipalities to choose to have fewer bins and less frequent emptying and instead to increase cleaning as it will be financed to some extent through the littering fee. ..................................................... In other words, in its memorandum, the government does not have any sound incentives to actually achieve the objective of the Single Plastics Directive. In short, the proposal seems to constitute a disguised tax and therefore joins in a series of fiscal symbolic taxes that the government has implemented with the environment and climate as a cover. The memorandum departs from the Single Plastics Directive on several points. For example, it is proposed that the levy, the tax, should be paid per unit of products placed on the Swedish market and not based on the trash actually collected, which is what is stipulated in the Single Plastics Directive. This means that producers will have to pay a littering fee regardless of what happens to the products. If they are collected in self-produced collection vessels – pay the fee or tax! If they spread in our neighbouring countries – pay the fee or tax! If they are thrown into the site collection and given to the packaging collection – pay the fee or tax! In addition, municipalities do not receive any incentives to promote efficient cleaning up. Is all this reasonable according to Per Bolund? I find it difficult to see how the government can justify its memorandum by referring to the one-time plastic directive, when it repeatedly chooses to depart from the purpose and the idea and the proposals for measures in the single-use plastic directive. I want it implemented. But I want it to be done wisely and effectively, and then we must listen to the consultation bodies.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-45	Madam President, I would like The last thing was to break in an open door. Of course, we are going to implement the directive effectively and wisely, and of course we are going to listen to the consultation bodies. That's exactly what we're doing. I am strongly opposed to Tobias Andersson's idea that it is not serious that we should not be behind a memorandum or an investigation and say that it is precisely that which is to be carried out. Then Tobias Andersson may not have understood how government work is done. This could be an explanation, because the Swedish Democrats have never been in a government. It is when the Government puts a proposal on the table of the Riksdag that it has a ready-made proposal to take a position on. Before there is such a ready-made proposal, it is a proposal that is in preparation. Then I can and should not precede it by saying bu or ba, yes or no or exactly what the design should be. It is a job in which we must rely on the very skilled officials in the Government Office who are helping us. I would also like to emphasise very much the respect for the fact that we have a remissance system in which we take in the views of broad interest groups and different actors in society. Contrary to what Tobias Andersson says, it would not be serious for me now to stand here and determine exactly what the finished product will look like when it is not finished. Of course, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, like any other consultation body, has the opportunity to make comments, and that is something that we welcome. The Environmental Protection Agency's comments, like all other referral points, will be included in the continued treatment. But it is very clear in the disposable plastic directive that it is the producers who will pay for the waste generated in outdoor environments through their handling. Here I would like to turn the question back: is this what Tobias Andersson is opposed to, that is to say that he thinks the principle is wrong? Then it is a discussion that can certainly be held but which should then be held at European level, because that principle is laid down in the directive. Somewhere I get the feeling that this is actually Tobias Andersson's question here today. I was clear in my interpellation response that we will have to do a gradual implementation of the directive, that is to say, first get a system in place, as is also proposed in the memo. If it then turns out that too much or too little has been taken into account in relation to the littering levy, it can be adjusted afterwards so that it really corresponds to the actual costs of dealing with litter. Of course, we should not withdraw more money than is needed, but we should not withdraw less money than is needed, because littering is a major problem that we need to address. Then I think it is too early to disqualify the municipalities and say that they will remove all trash baskets and only have people who are out cleaning the streets and squares. I think it would face quite a lot of protests from municipal citizens like me and, I hope, Tobias Andersson who does not feel comfortable throwing the trash on the ground but wants it to be easy to do the right thing. I also believe that the municipalities really understand this. I would also like to point out that the disposable plastic directive is an important measure to reduce litter. I would like us to be able to discuss how we can do more to reduce litter rather than constantly discuss how we can do less, which unfortunately seems to be the Swedish Democrats' entry into all environmental debates. From the government's side, we see that this is part but far from the only part. For example, we have introduced a tax on plastic carrier bags, which has greatly reduced the use of plastic carrier bags in Sweden. And it is clear that reducing the inflow of plastic into society also reduces the risk of it coming out in the form of garbage in streets and squares. We have beach cleaning allowance. We give funds to Keep Sweden Clean to prevent littering. We have also provided additional funds in our amending budget as a result of the increase in littering under the coronapndemine, which, of course, we must face. We also have proposals to introduce a cure even for low litter.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-54	Madam President, I would like I can only regret the fact that Per Bolund chooses to put words in my mouth and express how he feels that I may think instead of answering the questions I have asked about the serious criticism that exists against the memorandum the government has produced. Having said that, I fully understand that the dossier is being prepared, and I have also said so during the course of the debate. But Per Bolund must at the same time be able to comment on the memorandum the government has produced. Per Bolund does not need to precede the process and state what the final proposal that lands on Parliament's table should be. But Per Bolund should be able to comment on the proposal and the design of the memorandum that the government has chosen to produce. Against this memorandum there is plenty of criticism, but Per Bolund has so far chosen not to answer. Instead, he has discussed how I might reason. The fee the government wants to impose is confusingly similar to a tax, even if Per Bolund refuses to accept it. It shall be based on the number of products on the market and it has no correlation with actual costs and any direct consideration for the undertakings which are to pay the fee. In the investigation, individual producers do not receive individual compensation, but the money to be paid by the producers under the proposal is to be used to deal with litter in general and not specifically to clean up the products for which the producers are responsible. My final questions to Minister Per Bolund are therefore: Does Per Bolund intend to ensure that the municipalities only receive cover for their necessary costs in order to deal with litter and not all their costs in this area? How is it ensured that the most effective methods and measures for collecting the most litter are used?
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-62	Madam President, I would like I find it sad when the debate is devoted to distorting each other's message. On the contrary, I have given the answers that can be given at this stage. Tobias Andersson will have to wait and ask a new interpellation when the proposal is ready if he wants ready answers to all the questions. I have made it clear that there should of course be a correlation between the fee and the work carried out and the costs that the municipalities have for waste management. Tobias Andersson has still not commented on whether it is reasonable that those who have products on the market that contribute to littering also have to pay the costs. This is the basic principle of the disposable plastic directive, and the government is behind it. Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats do not seem to do so. This concerns me, because they are questioning the very basis of the entire environmental work, that is to say that it is the polluter, that is, the one who causes the environmental problem, who should also bear the cost. Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats may think that it is the taxpayer or someone else who should bear this cost. I don't share that assessment. Plastic littering is a major environmental problem that deserves to be taken seriously without confusing the debate or raising side issues. We need to deal with the major problem. We have 150 million tons of plastic in the oceans that breaks down into microplastics that end up in the fish we eat and the water we drink and affect our health. Not taking this issue seriously is a betrayal both of people of our own time and of future generations. I am once again concerned that the Swedish Democrats are devoting all their energy and time to delay, hinder, stop and hinder the introduction of measures that can actually reduce environmental problems here and now. The Green Party and the Swedish Democrats are fundamentally different here. We devote our energies to doing more to save the environment and climate. The Swedish democrats are doing less, and I regret that.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-68	Madam President, I would like First of all, Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, in its work on producing regulations and decisions relating to weapons issues, is based on the laws and regulations that are now laid down and, secondly, whether the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been given the task of starting from the arms directive even though the Parliament has not made a decision on the same. Sten Bergheden has asked me, firstly, whether the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the government's support in moving forward with the arms directive despite the fact that the Swedish Parliament has not yet taken a decision on the matter and, secondly, whether I intend to take any initiatives regarding the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is apparently already working on producing regulations and decisions on weapons before there is a parliamentary decision on the arms directive. I will respond to the interpellations jointly. In Sweden we have a long-established model where the task of producing detailed regulations is in many cases delegated to expert authorities. An example of this is that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is allowed to announce the requirements that hunting weapons and other hunting agents must meet. In its work in developing such regulations, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, in its role as an expert authority, must consider all relevant aspects. Of course, what may be relevant to consider differs from case to case and may change over time. An important starting point in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's work with the current regulations has been the hunting law's provisions that the hunting should be conducted so that the game is not subjected to unnecessary suffering. Of course, EU law can also be a relevant aspect. The fact that the Riksdag has not approved a proposal with proposals for amendments to other parts of the arms legislation does not restrict the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's right to make regulations regarding the requirements that hunting weapons should meet. It does not affect the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's ability to take EU law into account in its area of responsibility. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that no decision has yet been taken on this issue. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has produced a proposal that has been referred. Stakeholders have been given the opportunity to submit their comments, which are then included in the basis for the decisions following the referral.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-75	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. We now stand here once again to discuss the hunt for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Ever since I entered the Riksdag, I have been forced to follow one proposal after another from the Government that resulted in an aggravating for Swedish hunting and sports shooting. I have had to follow the minister after the minister who has been wrong in substance and has been ill-read and where the token has not really wanted to fall down. Hunting and shooting are frustrated. There has been a loss of faith in politics and, like me, one wonders what this is all about. Why does the government not put gunpowder on what is more acute and that set Sweden on fire? Of course I'm talking about gang crime. Putting restrictions and over-implementing laws and regulations to make it more difficult for law-abiding arms owners is not the way to stop the illegal weapons in the hands of criminals. I will repeat this every time I stand in the speaker's seat and speak on this subject. The government's stubborn struggle to make hunting and shooting more difficult makes the authorities go in the same direction. The government has set the bar, and the authorities follow even though it is the Riksdag that is Sweden's highest decision-making body. It is just such an example that we are discussing today. A letter from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has been published publicly on social media, states that they must relate to the amending directive to the EU arms directive, although Sweden has not yet taken a decision on it. Our assessment is that, at this point, we must relate to the amending directive, even though Sweden has not yet decided on how to deal with all aspects of the directive nationally. In our opinion, the changes we are now proposing that are linked to the directive (we are also proposing other amendments that are not affected by the directive) have a limited impact on most hunters. ..................................................... Furthermore, we see no convincing reasons for allowing hunting with the weapons expressly provided for in the directive to be prohibited. ..................................................... This approach seems very strange as the implementation of the EU's amending directives is not supported by the Swedish Parliament. The Swedish Parliament has repeatedly shown that the Government's proposal to implement the EU's weapons directive is not acceptable and that it affects hunters and sportsmen in Sweden negatively. There are several examples of this, which have been mentioned by the Moderates, among others. Regulations should be based on existing laws and regulations, not on something that is thought to be implemented. The fact that, despite Parliament's clear will, the Environmental Protection Agency is working as if the directive has already been implemented, I have to question strongly, and that is precisely why we are here today. When drawing up regulations and decisions on arms issues, we should reasonably start from the existing laws and regulations that are in place today. The big question is why it does not act after this and why it has not done a clear impact assessment. Then one would see that this will have a negative impact on Hunting and Shooting Sweden. You might want to listen to Hunting and Shooting Sweden before you come up with a proposal like this for a referral. The right things should be developed instead of the referral bodies correcting them afterwards.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister, although I already hear that the Minister is backing up a little and trying to protect himself with the fact that no decisions have been taken yet. No, but we can actually expect our works and authorities to have facts and data that are consistent with Swedish law before things are sent out for consultation. Sweden is a democracy, and power is based on the people. Here in the Riksdag we make decisions, and here in the Riksdag we make laws – laws and rules that apply to government, government agencies, government agencies and the inhabitants of the country. In fact, it is the Swedish Parliament that is the highest decision-making body in Sweden, not the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I assume that Swedish law applies, both within the Government and within the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's walls. When it is sent out information and documents from our authorities and works, we must of course be sure that these documents are correct, comply with Swedish law, do not speculate on what might happen in the EU next year and follow the debate and decisions taken here in the Swedish Parliament. How are hunters and shooters to be able to rely on government works when tasks are not accurate and authorities and works override the laws and decisions of the country? Then we are really in trouble and on a sloping plane. Madam President, I would like Of course it could be wrong. Data may go out that are incorrect, but then one usually corrects and corrects them so that it minimizes damage and restores confidence in the authority or the work. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to introduce clear official responsibilities which mean that individual officials must not act in any way without risking penalties for this. But obviously the S-MP government is trying to delay and delay that amendment. The fact that the government does not think it is serious if a staff member goes outside the regulations or clearly makes mistakes in his/her handling is remarkable in itself. I assume that Sweden's people and companies want to be sure that information, proposals or measures coming from an authority are actually correct and comply with Swedish legislation and nothing else. Madam President, I would like When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sends out regulations on weapons and weapons accessories, it chooses to interpret the EU directive as it was in the first situation, as the Riksdag has said no to three or four times and said it is an over-implementment. The EU has corrected the directive, and the Swedish Parliament has said that we should implement the arms directive at a minimum level. This has not been the Government's proposal, which has been clearly rejected by Parliament on three to four occasions. Nevertheless, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sends out information relating to the old.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-93	Madam President, I would like Of course, our authorities, like everyone else, are based, I hope, on the laws and rules that apply. I find it rather remarkable to stand and claim that there is something else that applies and to question an entire authority and say that you are acting against the law. That, of course, is not true. I'm also a little surprised to hear that you don't listen to actors. That is precisely why we have a consultation procedure – to send out proposals and get comments back on these proposals and, if relevant, to make changes to the proposals. In this respect, I would like to point out once again that the proposal is in the process of being consulted and that all those who have views on the proposal have every opportunity to express their views and thus also to influence a possible future decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I would also like to point out that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is, of course, acting within the law. They act in the same way as they have for many decades, i.e. the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for proposing regulations and changes regarding which weapons may be used in hunting. It is a principle that has applied under moderate-led governments just as under the current Red-Green Government. The question must go back to Sten Bergheden and Marléne Lund Kopparklint: Do you think that the principle that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should not regulate which weapons may be used in hunting should be changed? Does this mean that it should be completely free to use any weapon in hunting, or how should you interpret this rather high tone on the issue? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has to act under the Hunting Act. It is legislation that is affected by EU directives, but the proposal that Members referred to concerns other parts of Swedish legislation. It is about the Arms Act, the Armaments Act and the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods. There, the Swedish Parliament has not supported the arms directive, which is worrying and means that Sweden is now closely examined by the European Commission. We'll see how that process moves forward. I have to say, I'm a little surprised by the tone. It sounds like this would be a huge restriction on the possibility of hunting in Sweden. Let us remind ourselves that these are two types of weapons which, according to analyses and assessments by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has been working on hunting issues for many decades, are basically not used at all and are non-existent in hunting contexts. These are semi-automatic single-handed, central-ignition weapons, shotguns and semi-automatic rifles, where the plunger can be removed without tools and without reducing usability. It is not weapons associated with hunting, but rather with other forms of activity, at worst illegal. It is worth recalling the basis of the Weapons Directive, which is the tragic events of terrorist attacks in Paris in 2015. Attempts are being made to reduce the risk of the kind of weapons used in acts of terrorism coming into the hands of illegal operators. As I said, it is no wonder that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is acting. It does the same as it has always done and regulates which weapons can be used in hunting. They are right to do so, and that has been the case under previous governments.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-101	Madam President, I would like I think it is a bit bleak to accuse myself and my colleague, Mrs Sten Bergheden, of basically endangering falsehood when we have black and white, in a letter from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, that one must relate to the amending directive, even though Sweden has not yet decided how all aspects of the directive should be dealt with nationally. This is what we are discussing here today – that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is following something that has not been decided on. It is a fact that this has been written and is based on it. Then I get a little worried when I hear the minister talking about the illegal weapons. It is an extremely small part that falls into the hands of criminals, to whom I was at the beginning of my speech. The illegal weapons in the hands of criminals are smuggled illegally into Sweden. It's not weapons coming from law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. I think it is important for the government to distinguish between these two things. Madam President, I would like In the reply given by the Minister, he points out that Sweden has long established a model where the task of producing detailed regulations is in many cases delegated to expert authorities. An example of this is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which may provide regulations on the requirements that hunting weapons and other hunting agents must meet. It is therefore particularly important that existing laws and regulations should be taken into account today. Here, Madam President, the Minister is on an important note. Expert authorities should be based on relevant aspects such as existing laws and regulations, not something that they believe the government wants to introduce. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has produced a proposal that has been referred, and interested parties will be given the opportunity to submit comments. However, it is sad that it is they who have to submit comments and correct errors that are included in the referral. There is a lot to say about the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's referral of new regulations on weapons, weapons accessories and ammunition for hunting. And yes, the Environmental Protection Agency writes that if it should turn out that convincing arguments are put forward against the amendments, it would have to make a completely different assessment with regard to the amending directive. But this is where it becomes so wrong that you start from something that has not been decided on. Then I think we should discuss why we are doing this at all. During this term of office, attempts have been made to introduce several things that frighten law-abiding and important hunters and sportsmen, so that they are concerned about how to carry out their activities. Certainly these new proposals for regulations affect Hunting and shooting Sweden. Madam President, I would like As I understand it, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is of the opinion that they have the right to interpret how the arms directive should be implemented in Swedish law, even though the Riksdag has said that the Government's proposals are over-implemented. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency bases its regulations on an investigation – Ds 2018:1. Specifically as regards category A, it is a combination of semi-automatic weapons and warehouses of a certain size that the Weapons Directive regulates and not, as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency claims, semi-automatic weapons with large storage capacity that become category A and thus prohibited. The Environmental Protection Agency prohibits some weapons anyway, as there are no reasons to allow them. And this is where it gets so wrong.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-110	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Minister is not so familiar with the substance of the matter, given his speech here earlier. I can try to sort out some things for the Minister, so that it might be easier to understand what has happened. We actually have good weapons legislation in Sweden that works and that hunters and shooters follow. This is the legislation that we have decided on here in the Swedish Parliament. Then the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the police make corrections when assessing which weapons are out there. We have not decided on any other legislation. However, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sends out a referral on an EU directive that is incorrectly interpreted, and as the Swedish Parliament has said no to three four times and said that it will not implement at that level but do a minimum implementation here in Sweden. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency still defies this and sends it out for a referral and assumes that this rule will apply. With regard to the last part, the EU itself corrected certain things in order to enable Member States to adjust their arms legislation. Return with a minimum implementation so that we can get this through in the Swedish parliament! This government has not done so, but has added further things. I can go into all these details and explain it to the Minister, but I do not think we have time for that. We'll have an interpellation debate on that part. What the Minister says is a little remarkable. Now this is out for a referral, and then it will be corrected. But is it really the case, Madam President, that it is the consultation bodies that are going to correct the poor expertise of the Environmental Protection Agency on this issue? It is well assumed that works and authorities have the expertise and actually comply with the legislation in force and do not speculate and think about what might happen in the future with regard to both the arms directive and a possible ban on lead. We do not have a ban on lead in Europe. We do not have a ban on lead in Sweden. Yet the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sits and speculates on what can happen in the future. That's hardly an authority's job, is it? In fact, an authority shall rely on the laws and rules in force and comply fully with them. It is clearly stated in the Authority Regulation 2007:515 § 3:中 The Authority's management is accountable to the Government for its activities and must ensure that it is carried out effectively and in accordance with applicable law.It does not say that the Authority should do so or do so if the Authority is aware of it, but it does say that it should ensure that the activities are carried out efficiently and in accordance with applicable law. It hasn't happened. I did not get answers to my questions that I previously asked the Minister. What steps will the Minister take to ensure that this is not repeated? It is perfectly reasonable for us to maintain our trust in our authorities and our works. Will the Minister take any initiatives to ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency actually goes out and corrects the data? It normally does authorities and works in a good way when they do wrong. How does the Minister intend to restore confidence in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in the country's hunters and shooters, when on point after point you misinterpret Swedish laws and go your own way? Not least, we have had an interpellation debate recently on the wolves. It has been decided that there should be 170 to 270 wolves. Yet the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Government have approved that we have over 400 wolves in Sweden.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-118	Madam President, I would like I am quite surprised to hear the tone of the moderate Members. Of course, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, like all other authorities, has a general obligation to comply with applicable rules and laws. So does the Environmental Protection Agency. To say otherwise, I find it quite remarkable. Their activities are also examined by the Swedish National Audit Office, just like the activities of all other authorities. If we go against the legislation, it will of course be very clear. However, I would like to emphasise that this is not the case. The fact that the Swedish Parliament did not approve the Government's proposal for the implementation of the amended weapons directive does not change the current Swedish legislation. We should be able to agree on that, right? We have Swedish legislation today. According to it, it is the task of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to develop regulations for hunting weapons. It has, once again, been for a long time. Nor are there any changes in this regard. If Members wish to amend it, they may press for changes to the legislation in force. It would also be strange if the Environmental Protection Agency ignored current EU regulations. This applies generally but, of course, also to the work of the Agency with regard to regulations for hunting weapons. The fact that Parliament has not approved a bill with legislative proposals relating to the implementation of a directive is one thing. The fact that an authority takes into account parts of this directive in its work on regulations within the current mandate is something quite different. I think that Members are confusing two different issues, and I hope that this is due to a misunderstanding. The first concerns the need for new legislation. The second concerns updated regulations within the framework of existing legislation. And one doesn't actually stop the other. Once again, the weapons involved are, in practice, extremely rare. The idea that this would mean a major restriction on the possibility of hunting in Sweden, therefore, I certainly do not support it. According to the information we receive from the Environmental Protection Agency, I would say that these weapons are practically non-existent among hunters. The fact that these are semi-automatic single-handed central ignition weapons also means that it is a bigger calibre than the permitted arms, which have edge ignition. It is definitely not a common hunting weapon, and according to what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says it knows, it is not used at all in hunting. So this is a little surprising. Perhaps Members can underline why it is so important that these very weapons must be used in hunting. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has, as has been said, the opportunity to amend its proposals, but the information available now does not show that this is the case. Again: The background to the amending directive, which has not been implemented in Sweden when the bill was voted down, was the terrorist attacks that took place in Paris in 2015 and where automatic weapons were used. The aim of the Directive is to have a coherent and coordinated approach across the EU to prevent the most dangerous firearms from being used in criminal cases. It is important to remember that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations already contain things that are not only justified for hunting reasons. Among other things, there is a requirement for semi-automatic rifles to be of a civilian type which, in construction and appearance, intends to mimic conventional hunting weapons. So they're not supposed to be military. It is a provision which is not justified on grounds of hunting. There are also limitations on the calibre of single-handed weapons, the size of the warehouse in certain respects and that the firearms must not have laser sights. So this principle and this way of working have existed for a long time. That is also why it is a little difficult to understand the outrage shown by the moderate Members in this debate.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-127	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister why the Minister believes that Hunting and shooting Sweden is reacting so hard to what has come out now and is being referred. If there is no reason, how could thousands of people have reacted like this? Have all these people misunderstood things? Or is it actually the case that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has not gone out and asked the question and conducted a thorough investigation? This is going to affect Hunting and Shooting Sweden. Time and again the Minister goes into talking about illegal weapons that end up in the hands of criminal people. But then it's about weapons being smuggled into Sweden – illegal weapons – and not about the weapons of law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. What we are debating here today is that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has had something that has not been implemented in Sweden. That's what you're reacting to. After that, Madam President, I would like to discuss how Swedish norm-making power is actually designed. It cannot be right to base regulations on proposals that the Riksdag has voted against, for what should the role of the Riksdag be? I can also note from the Minister's reply to me that the Government obviously has no objection to an authority thus short-circuiting the normal democratic order. If a no in Parliament is not enough, what do you need to do to prevent the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency from banning a lot of hunting weapons and imposing restrictions on Sweden's hunting and shooting? This is done despite the fact that the Riksdag has said the exact opposite through several announcements.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-131	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is a little remarkable that representatives of this government, most recently the Minister here, confuse legal hunters and sportsmen with terrorist activities with illegal weapons across Europe. Our hunters and sportsmen are checked every 24 hours whether or not to keep their weapons. What the government cannot do is control our terrorists and the serious criminals in this country, so they can wreak havoc in our streets and squares. Do not confuse them with Sweden's hunters and shooters, who are law-abiding people! If they had not been law - abiding, they would not have had any weapons. Do not confuse them with terrorist activities carried out with illegal weapons, which this government has handled very badly during its seven years in power! It is remarkable, Madam President, that an authority can send out regulations based on an EU directive that is not implemented – and also misinterpreted. I find it remarkable that this is being sent out and asked the consultation bodies to correct it to a state authority. One should be able to assume that the information and expertise that comes from a Swedish authority is factually correct and complies with Swedish law, which has been taken in the Swedish parliament – and just as I said, it should be according to applicable law, not speculating right or any future law. It's supposed to be legal. I commend the Minister to read through the replies of the referral bodies, Madam President, and actually to see what they have said. It may help both the Minister and the Environmental Protection Agency in their continued work.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-135	Madam President, I would like Again: What has happened is that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has produced a proposal in current legislation and within its mandate, which has been the same under quite a few governments – governments that have been red-green and even governments that have been led by the Moderates and consisted of other parties. It is not legislation that has been amended, but it is the same principles that apply and the same rules that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency works on. Of course, I assume that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reads all the referrals and takes into account what is stated in its final decision. I think it is good that we have a consultation procedure and that we have the opportunity to bring in information and knowledge from all parties. I also think that Sweden's hunters do a great job. Of course, we know that hunters are law-abiding and try to follow all the rules that apply. However, I also think it is important to emphasise that we have regulations at European level that try in various ways to prevent dangerous firearms coming into criminal use. That is a principle which I hope the moderate Members will also fundamentally support. It is nevertheless important to point out that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has a mandate to lay down rules on which weapons may be used in hunting, not only to protect animals from unnecessary suffering but also for other reasons. As has already been said, there are weapons that are banned, such as military weapons. It is important to point out that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency obviously works within the current Swedish legislation. It is the task of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to develop regulations for hunting weapons. It has been so for a long time, and there has been no change in that respect.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-139	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me if I can develop my opinion as I did in this House on 30 April of this year on the death cases in the Dominican Republic. Mats Green has also asked me whether I am prepared, in the course of my duties, to take any initiative, in particular in the light of what appears in the documents published by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, to clarify this case. Let me start by stressing once again that deaths abroad are among the most sensitive cases the administration has to deal with within the framework of the consular mission. These cases are always given the highest priority, and this has also been the case in these two death cases. I can assure you that we are always trying to provide as good assistance and support as possible in each single case on the basis of the consular mission. As far as Mats Green's first question is concerned, I am happy to develop the reasoning somewhat, but at the same time I would like to emphasise that in our previous interpellation debate, we went largely through the information available on the case. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the foreign authorities, makes careful assessments of the possibilities we have to best assist in a matter, whether it is a matter of practical handling in connection with a death or whether it is a matter of contact with foreign representatives and authorities. I would also like to stress that we are always in favour of consistent and legally sound management and that we always take our contacts with relatives and representatives of foreign states very seriously. During the previous interpellation debate on 30 April this year, I informed Mats Green that, in this case, we have repeatedly pointed out to representatives of the Dominican Republic the importance of these cases being dealt with urgently and that the circumstances are being investigated. This has been mentioned both on the ground in the Dominican Republic and with the country's ambassador here in Sweden. On Mats Green's second question, on new initiatives, I can say that I myself, as late as 11 May this year, had a meeting with the newly-responsible ambassador for the Dominican Republic in Sweden. I could then personally stress the importance of thorough investigation of the circumstances surrounding the deaths. The Ambassador assured me that she would continue to raise the issue in her contact with the Dominican Foreign Office. We will therefore have reason to return to representatives of the Dominican Republic on this matter. All the information we receive on this matter will, of course, also be given to relatives. Assisting Swedish travellers who end up in an emergency or die abroad and having contact with their relatives is one of the core tasks of the foreign administration. However, it is important to make it clear that there are tasks outside the consular mission. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the foreign authorities cannot review autopsy protocols and police reports. This is a matter for law enforcement authorities and medical expertise. Nor can we act as legal advisors or representatives of individuals or intervene in legal proceedings abroad. Of course, the desire to know as much as possible about the circumstances of a death as a family member is quite understandable, especially if this has happened in unclear circumstances. Here, the administration of Trikes can assist the relatives in asking for documentation from local authorities and hospitals. However, it is not the task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the foreign authorities to check the accuracy of autopsy reports or to comment on the content of police reports. For police matters, relatives must contact the local authorities directly. They are responsible for any investigation and for whether the documents can be made available to relatives. In many countries, it may take a long time before any information is given. I understand that it can be very heavy and frustrating for family members not always to get a full understanding of what has happened.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-146	Madam President, I would like I must thank the Minister for the read-out of the interpellation response. I hope that today, unlike in the previous interpellation debate on the unexplained death of the Swedish couple Silva in the Dominican Republic, she will answer the questions asked and discuss the substance of the matter instead of reading from the same written answer in advance regardless of the questions asked. Respect, Madam President, for the substance of the matter and for the family requires it. On the basis of the answer that the Minister has just read out, I have a number of obvious questions. On my first interpellation question, the Minister now answers that, in our previous interpellation debate, we basically went through all the information available in the case and that she does not want a new discussion on it. Quite frankly, Madam President, that is a rather misleading statement. I then had a number of questions about the material in the Silva case, over 200 pages, that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had had to hand out to Jönköpings-Posten the day before. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs first refused to disclose anything at all but was forced to do so after an appeal procedure was initiated. That material confirms all the information that JP has stated for more than a year. The Minister is now saying that we have gone through all the data in the case. I then asked a number of questions about these, Madam President, but not a single one of these questions was commented, let alone answered, by Ann Linde. I note that neither today nor during the last debate in one word has the Minister touched on the extradition of documents by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and what appears there, including the fact that several Foreign Office officials, but not the Minister, note that there are major questions and ambiguities regarding the information provided by the Dominican authorities on the death of the Silva couple. I would like the Minister here today to comment on what emerged from those documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like The minister answers that she had a meeting with the Dominican ambassador and demanded that the deaths be investigated thoroughly. That is a good and hopefully half a step forward, even if it happens more than a year after the unexplained death of the Silva. Several weeks after their death, their bank accounts were vacated, to name but a few within the walls of the Dominican authorities. Madam President, I would like If, from an official Dominican point of view, minor adjustments are in fact only repeated the evasive, incomplete and sometimes directly incorrect non-answers that have been given so far, I assume that Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, will not passively settle for this. If you do, it'll just be a diplomatic game for the galleries.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-151	Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear, so that there are no misconceptions whatsoever about my answers to Mats Green's questions in this interpellation. The answer to Mats Green's first question, if I can elaborate on my opinion that I gave in the Chamber on 30 April on the death cases in the Dominican Republic, when I informed him that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had been in contact on several occasions with representatives of the Dominican Republic, is as follows: Each individual consular matter is handled in accordance with the rules and regulations in force. A death case is always a top priority. In complex cases, the contacts that we consider to be necessary are made. For example, there may be contacts with local authorities or representatives of a foreign state. In the current cases, from the very beginning we had established a contact with the local police via our honorary consul in the Dominican Republic. After we had informed ourselves of the events in more detail, contact was also made with the then Dominican ambassador in Stockholm. The purpose of this meeting was to clarify how seriously we looked at it and that we were anxious that these cases were dealt with thoroughly and promptly. After the first meeting with the ambassador, several other meetings were held with representatives of the Dominican Republic. As I said myself, I had a personal meeting with the newly appointed Dominican ambassador as late as May. I then repeated these demands and the demand for an investigation that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has brought forward all along. So it is not a requirement that is a year after. The Ambassador assured me that she would again raise the issue with the Dominican Foreign Office. We will therefore have reason to return to representatives of the Dominican Republic in this case. The answer to Mats Green's second question is whether I am prepared, in the course of my duties, to take any initiatives to clarify this case, is that I have already answered that question. My message was very clear all along. We want the circumstances surrounding the deaths to be thoroughly investigated as far as possible so that we can communicate that information to the relatives. Having said that, of course, we do not have the means to intervene in judicial proceedings in another country. I understand more than the sadness and frustration that family members feel about not getting full clarity. That is why we will continue to follow this case in our future contacts with the Dominican Republic.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-158	Madam President, I would like To say that you have answered a question and then to do so are completely different things. I'll have to repeat my last question that I didn't get answered. That is also the most important issue. If, from an official Dominican point of view, with minor adjustments, we simply repeat the evasive, incomplete and directly incorrect non-answers that have been given so far, I assume that Ann Linde will not passively settle for that answer. That's my question. I would still like the Foreign Minister to answer it. Madam President, I would like We have so far discussed the management of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in relation to the Dominican Republic in the Silva case. Relevant in the case is also the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, where the minister is head of department, own handling of the matter in Sweden. This applies in particular to the behaviour towards the media in general and to the Jönköpings-Post in particular. This action is in contrast to the lack of action against the Dominican Republic in this case. So it is not only the case that when her own department is examined, the most irritation has been mixed with silence from the Foreign Minister. It has also been the case that the official Ministry of Foreign Affairs has contacted Jönköpings-Posten's editor-in-chief Herman Nikolic in writing to give his view on freedom of the press. Nikolic reports on this in Jönköpings-Posten on 15 May this year. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated, among other things, that the newspaper's publications were not correct, even though they forced the documents from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to prove that they definitely were. It was said that the newspaper did not choose correctly from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. That the newspaper reporter would have summarized his impressions differently. Above all and most remarkable, Madam President, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs announced that it wanted to review the interview in advance before it was published. The irony is that this was made by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs just a few days before World Press Freedom Day on 3 May. Madam President, I would like For those of us who were heads of authorities, such behaviour and an approach towards the media would have been unthinkable, unsustainable and unacceptable. Not to mention how smooth it would have been for politicians if you could make demands to review and approve parts of the report where you occur. It is really worth its own fair, its own interpellation. I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain here whether she, as Head of Department and most responsible, is behind the actions and written statements of her department. That question, together with my previous question on the Dominican question, I would appeal to the Foreign Minister to take this opportunity to answer.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-169	Madam President, I would like In response to Mats Green's question as to whether we passively accept the answers we receive from the Dominican Republic, the answer is no. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has never passively accepted the answers we receive, but we continue to ask and ask for clarity in this. I have on several occasions explained to Mats Green what the consular mission means, what help we can assist Swedes with abroad and what limitations exist given the consular framework. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that when there is a death abroad, the foreign administration gives the highest priority. It is, as I mentioned earlier, among the most sensitive cases that we have to deal with. Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the foreign authorities are doing everything they can to facilitate the family members with the necessary practical handling of the consular mission. In the media context, I have received comments that, like the interpeller Mats Green, I read in response to consular matters and that this would be a sign of disrespect. Let me be very clear. It's just the opposite. Out of respect for the family members and the sensitive situation, I do not want to risk saying anything that could make the situation worse in this situation. With regard to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' contacts with Jönköpings-Posten, I can assure you that this has been done correctly and that it is entirely justified to see our own quotes, in order to avoid misunderstandings. The answer to Mats Green's question is: I support the way in which our communications authority, our communications department and our consular service have handled relations with the press. The mission of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs when a Swedish person dies abroad is primarily to ensure the identity of the deceased and to ensure that the closest relatives are informed via the Swedish police. The foreign authorities can also help relatives to obtain the necessary documentation for, for example, repatriation of the deceased and inform the Swedish Tax Agency about the death so that they can register the person who died in the population register. If there is a valid travel insurance, relatives can get help from the insurance company. When you turn to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you must be treated with respect and proper action. Our consular service is provided in an equivalent and legally secure way no matter where in the world you are. Conditions and regulations in different countries differ. Sometimes it can affect the conditions for the consular mission. But I can assure Mats Green that the Foreign Service is always doing its best to assist Swedes abroad who are in need of consular support.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-181	Madam President, I would like We have an answer here today. It is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs supports, to say the least, the remarkable view that apparently the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs has with regard to the view of a free press and the ability of the media to report on the facts from the circumstances that exist. This is, as I said, worth its own fair. There will also be its own fair in the form of an interpellation about it. Madam President, I would like Forgive me, but I cannot help but find it rather remarkable that the Foreign Minister seems to see this case in full as a practical and administrative matter when two Swedish citizens died. There is no mention of the very question of how these deaths happened and the completely incomplete answers that have so far been presented by the Dominican authorities. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs generally makes the impression of being annoyed by having to spend some of his precious time discussing this. Maybe it's a completely wrong impression. But that is probably the impression most people get after following this for more than a year. I hope that we can move forward in new debates and discussions, particularly on the foreign minister's handling of the issues and communication with relatives. I also hope that we will see improvement and that we will see another constructive dialogue from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and its head.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-186	Madam President, I would like The Ministry of Foreign Affairs handles thousands of consular matters annually. Our main task is to assist Swedes abroad who have ended up in various emergencies with advice and support. Of course, this includes family members who have suffered the worst — the loss of a family member or a close relative. Thanks to good relations with other states, including the Dominican Republic, we can deal with sensitive matters that are important to us, such as this emergency case, without affecting the intergovernmental relationship. Tragic deaths abroad are nothing that risks the relationship between countries, although we make very clear demands for answers. Diplomatic relations are a prerequisite for helping and supporting each other in the event of accidents and deaths affecting citizens in our respective countries. Of course, there must be respect for the laws and regulations in force in the country in question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot intervene in the administration of justice or the exercise of public authority in another country. Similarly, we assume that other states will respect our independence. Having said that, there is nothing to prevent us from ensuring that the handling of consular matters is right and that the rights of Swedes are safeguarded.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-190	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what initiatives Sweden, as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN, intends to take in order to bring those responsible in Ethiopia and Eritrea to justice on charges of war crimes. She has asked me whether I and the government intend to work to ensure that international law enforcement bodies demand responsibility for the systematic rapes suffered by Tigrean women and children. Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I and the government intend to carry out humanitarian operations for the women and children of Tigray who are victims of rape or other war crimes and in which case they will persist. She has also asked me whether I and the government intend to raise in the UN the issue of Yazidian children and women who have been victims of IS/ Daish and who live under constant terrorist threat from both supporters of IS/ Daish and from their own culture of honour. I fully share Amineh Kakabaveh's concerns about the data on sexual violence in Tigray and have spoken several times before about the serious developments in Ethiopia in the Riksdag, including on a number of parliamentary issues( 2020/ 21: 2513; 2530; 2432; 2458; 1493) and in an interpellation( 2020/ 21/146). Conflict-related executable violence is a serious crime and constitutes a violation of international humanitarian law. The Tigray conflict has now been going on for six months. It has led to a large number of dead, destroyed infrastructure and a very large number of refugees and internally displaced persons. The humanitarian situation is acute and, according to the UN, has worsened in the last month. The UN estimates that 4.5 million people are in need of humanitarian aid only in the Tigray region. On 22 April, the UN Security Council underlined how the security situation in Tigray remained an obstacle to the ongoing humanitarian efforts. We call on all parties to ensure security, rapid and unhindered humanitarian aid and access to all affected areas so that rapid and adequate assistance can reach people in need. I am appalled by the extensive information available on terrible and gross violations of human rights and human rights in Tigray, including the systematic use of sexual and gender-based violence in the conflict. I also mentioned this in the meeting with the EU Foreign Ministers on 19 April. Human rights abuses and violations are reported to have been committed by all parties to the conflict, including Eritrean military. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said on 4 March that the reported acts may constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity. Sweden and the EU have consistently demanded that independent investigations of the data be carried out and that those responsible be held accountable. The Prime Minister and I have expressed this in talks with our Ethiopian counterparts Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Demeke Demeke. I welcome the joint investigation now under way in Tigray, which is a collaboration between the Ethiopian Commission on Human Rights and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Violence against women and girls is one of the issues to be investigated – this has been particularly emphasised by Sweden. Sweden supports this work and will follow it closely. We are prepared to take further action to hold those responsible accountable. Sweden has increased humanitarian aid by SEK 65 million and supported resources through Sida and MSB due to the great needs of Tigray. Sida's humanitarian aid to Ethiopia amounts to SEK 175 million in 2021, including support to the United Nations Refugee Agency and UNICEF. In the light of the data on sexual and gender-based violence, Sweden is now strengthening the UN Population Fund with a second session from MSB – this to contribute capacity and expertise linked to sexual and gender-based violence. In parallel, Sweden has relocated resources and thus increased aid for the protection and support of women and children who have been victims of violence, including in Tigray. Together with the rest of the EU, we have consistently called for an end to violence and the protection of civilians and for independent investigations and accountability for reported violations and human rights violations in Ethiopia. Together with the United Nations, the AU, the United States and other actors, we continue to work actively for a solution to the conflict and full respect for international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law. S verige is closely following the situation of Yazidi and other persons belonging to ethnic and religious minority groups in Iraq. Sweden actively highlights the human rights situation of persons belonging to these minorities in bilateral contacts with Iraq and within the UN and the EU, including the situation of Yazidian women and children who have been subjected to Daish's extensive and systematic abuse.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-202	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a comprehensive response and an account of Sweden's work and what we contribute to such wars and conflicts! I am very pleased to hear that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have raised these issues in both the EU context and meeting with those responsible in Ethiopia. It is important that we push these questions. The reason I wrote the interpellation is that it is not only in Tigray that abuse and war crimes occur. This also happens in Myanmar and in other parts of the world. We do not always know what is happening with regard to the abuse of women and children. This was last done in Chile during the protests, for example. We have raised the issue here many times. There are many tigreans, women, who live in Sweden and who, just as we are appalled by the current situation and what is happening with their relatives and acquaintances. It is important to prevent rape in war. It has been agreed both in the UN and in the Statute of the International Criminal Court in The Hague. It states that rape and sexual violence can constitute war crimes during armed conflicts and genocide in peacetime. The Security Council has adopted nine resolutions on women, peace and security, five of which focus in particular on sexual abuse in armed conflicts. Resolution 1820 is perhaps one of the most important breakthroughs. Yet, despite all international agreements and resolutions, there are brutal and horrendous war crimes and rapes against women and young girls, but also against boys. During the violence in Tigray, northern Ethiopia, tens of thousands of women, girls, and children are said to have suffered rape and abuse. Last November, the country's president, the peace prize winner Abiy Ahmed, ordered military action against Tigray to control the province and combat the TPLF, the Tigrayan Liberation Front, which has a great influence over the almost independent province. Even the Eritrean army joined. It is very good that we have initiated and implemented various sanctions against individuals, both in Eritrea and Ethiopia. It has to happen. Sweden must also require Ethiopia to leave the area. They are an occupying power, which is very important to mark. Many people are happy about what Sweden and the EU are doing. The United States has also done some things. But perhaps it is not enough, and then you have to be very clear with both countries. Those responsible must be brought to justice for real. We hope that this investigation will lead to some form of accountability soon.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-211	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh raises the issue of accountability. For the government, accountability for abuse and violation of human rights is essential. The abuses and violations that have been reported risk creating deep wounds in the population for a long time to come. We have highlighted this repeatedly with various representatives of the Ethiopian Government, who then said that these issues are a high priority and that they should devote resources to the judicial system for them. We will continue to work to ensure that those responsible are held accountable. Our focus is that international investigation mechanisms should be used to investigate human rights abuses and violations in Tigray. If necessary, this should also be done within the framework of the UN Human Rights Council. The EU and other countries highlighted the human rights situation in Ethiopia during the last session of the UN Human Rights Council, and we are pushing for the Council to remain engaged. We are engaged in a close dialogue with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights as well as with the Ethiopian Commission for Human Rights through, in particular, the Swedish Representation in Geneva and the Embassy in Addis Abeba. Together with my EU colleagues, I met with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in March, Michelle Bachelet, and we talked about the situation in Ethiopia, including the reports on gender-based violence. The situation in Ethiopia is a priority for the EU. On 11 March, the EU adopted Council conclusions on an approach to developments in Ethiopia. Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto has travelled to Ethiopia several times and continued to repeat the EU's call for independent investigations and accountability for human rights abuses and violations committed in Tigray. Haavisto reported on these visits to the EU Foreign Minister's meeting in April. Sweden emphasised at the meeting the importance of the EU continuing to insist that those responsible must be held accountable, including those responsible for the practice of sexual and gender-based violence.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the report and for all the important initiatives. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also go down, because it is of great importance to be there himself and to state what it is like. Especially since we in Sweden claim that we have a feminist government and a feminist foreign policy, it is important. As I said, this is not the first time this has happened. Since World War II, abuse has taken place. The UN has reported that in at least 19 countries war crimes have been committed against women and rape in war, and there may be even more. The question is why wait until this happens and then investigate. Why are the EU and the UN not prepared? This occurs in the historical African zone in countries such as Congo, Nigeria and many others. It occurred during the genocide in Rwanda, during the Vietnam war, during World War II, during the Yugoslav civil war and during the Iraq war. It's happening in Syria. Not only Daish but also Turkish militias abuse women in the Kurdish part of Syria. This is happening today in Tigray and Myanmar. Nor do we always know what the situation of women is. That is why I believe that the EU and the UN should be prepared. We should make sure that there is such preparedness before. When a conflict is underway in an area where you know that this is happening, you should immediately indicate that it is not okay. We have a lot of resolutions and international agreements that many countries have signed, but they are not respected. Clearly, they are not respected in any of these civil wars. Assaults have occurred against Yazidi women, as Nadia Murad told us about when she met the then Foreign Minister. We have discussed several times in the Swedish Parliament the 5,000 young girls and children who became victims of Daish's sex trade. Nemam Ghafouri, the relay doctor who unfortunately lost his life in the struggle for the rights of the Yazidian girls, told us at a cross-political seminar in the Riksdag on 8 March that reconstruction is very important but that for the most violent is very taboo cultural. The women who have been subjected to violence and oppression from Daish or others in Tigray – so do my friends – don't tell me that openly. This is terrible. There is not even medical or humanitarian aid to be provided. You live with trauma and disease for the rest of your life. It is good to build up society, but it does not help, for example, the Yazidian women and girls who are oppressed by both their own society and Daish. Therefore, I hope that Sweden is running their cause and that those who have had children with men from Daish can have the opportunity to come to Sweden and other countries in order to survive and get help and support.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-221	Madam President, I would like Sweden works closely with the EU, the United Nations, the United States and other international actors to ensure that we have coordinated international pressure on investigations and accountability. The UN Security Council has also expressed strong concern about the data on sexual violence against women and children in Tigray and called for investigations to identify and hold the perpetrators to account. We continue to have close contact with the UN in New York. We also have a long-standing relationship with Ethiopia and strong inter-ethnic ties. There is great interest in Ethiopia in Sweden, both here in Parliament and through the frequent contacts that I and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have with the Ethiopian diaspora. I have regularly held a dialogue with several members of the Riksdag on developments and challenges in Ethiopia. Amineh Kakabaveh thinks I should go to the area. A trip was actually planned, but it had to be postponed due to the pandemic. I still have a plan to go there. Amineh Kakabaveh also raises the issue of accountability for serious crimes committed by Daish. That is, of course, of great importance. We have supported the establishment of the UN investigation team for the crimes committed by Daish in Iraq and the Levant. I would also like to say, with regard to Yazidian women, that the government shares Amineh Kakabaveh's concern about the situation of Yazidians in Iraq. The Yazidian community has long been vulnerable and marginalised among the religious minorities that exist. This was brought up again during the Daish offensive in 2014 in Sinjar. This led to large-scale expulsion of the Yazidian population. Hundreds of thousands of Yazidi fled. Over 6,000 women and children were abducted and over 3,000 Yazidi were killed. Today, seven years later, many are still missing. Since our time in the UN Security Council, Sweden has been actively promoting accountability for these serious crimes committed by Daish against Yazidian women, against children and also against men. Here, our support for the establishment of Unitad, which is the UN Evidence Collection Mechanism for crimes committed by Daish, is an example but also that we have staff contributions to Unitad.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-227	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, there is reason to come back to these questions. I sincerely hope that this is the last time that rape and sexual abuse are committed against women in wars where women's bodies are used as bats. The worst and most terrible humiliation is to rape enemy women. We have seen this and it has happened in many countries. We have many resolutions, and we have very many envoys. At the end of January, the UN Special Envoy against Sexual Violence expressed strong concern about the situation in Tigray. She said this is going to go on and, unfortunately, it's going to happen again if we don't do something right now. This is an emergency, and the UN must set up groups and other things in advance. You should have these measures in advance and not afterwards. Afterwards, it is good to investigate who has committed the crimes, but it does not say much about Eritrea's role in this. We in Sweden very rarely express ourselves critically and impose sanctions to mark against the individuals in Ethiopia, for example, and also Eritrea who have committed these crimes. I wonder if Sweden will. Several countries, such as Germany and Denmark, have taken such initiatives, and I hope that we will join them.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-231	Madam President, I would like In addition to investigation and accountability, we also need to work to ensure that those who have been abused receive the support they need. The EU has recently increased its humanitarian aid by EUR 53 million to the most vulnerable in Ethiopia. Sweden has also increased its humanitarian support to meet the needs of Tigray. Through Sweden's development cooperation and humanitarian support, we contribute to efforts for gender equality and sexual and reproductive health and rights including efforts against gender-based violence. We have stepped up efforts to combat gender-based violence and to support survivors. By seconding a resource via MSB to the United Nations Population Fund, Sweden is now further strengthening the capacity to support those who have been victims of sexual and gender-based violence. Sweden has already seconded a person who works with this at UNICEF. In development cooperation, we have a series of actions for democratic development, respect for human rights, gender equality and the rule of law. We support, among other things, the Ethiopian Commission on Human Rights and the judiciary. Sida has been able to allocate funds within development cooperation to prioritise and directly support investigations that are now being conducted by the UN and Ethiopia's Human Rights Commission. Sweden will always work to hold responsible for abuses and violations to account as well as for peaceful development and respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. We will continue to demand investigation and accountability and work towards a halt to the conflict and people's suffering in Tigray. I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for once again addressing these very important issues that need to be discussed in Parliament's Chamber.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-237	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to take any action in relation to the data on the exclusion of persons with severe disabilities from Samhall for the benefit of persons with mild or no disabilities, whether I intend to take any initiative to initiate a review or investigation to map out the working environment and working conditions of employees at Samhall, using appropriate methodology, and whether I intend to take any initiative for a broader review of the policies of persons who, for various reasons, cannot be on the labour market without specific support, including Samhall as part of a whole. In addition, Mrs Quicklund has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to improve the very difficult work environment situation for Samhall's employees and whether I will work for Samhall to return to her original position. The government has made a number of decisions in the process of reviewing Samhall's mission. It is important that Samhall's activities work well and that the protected jobs are used for those for whom they are intended. The government has taken several measures to ensure that the right target group is referred to Samhall. The Government has clarified the regulations for instructions to, among other things, protect work at Samhall. In order to be assigned to sheltered work, the Government has clarified that a person's work capacity should be so reduced as to result from a disability that the person cannot find another job, and the person's needs should not be met by other interventions. To ensure that instructions to Samhall are made in the right way, the Government has given a number of assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen. First, the Public Employment Service will review the definition and target level of priority groups so that those with the greatest need are given the highest priority. Secondly, the Public Employment Service will review the coding of disabilities with reduced working capacity. Thirdly, Arbetsförmedlingen must follow up the instructions to Samhall to ensure that it is the intended target group that is assigned. Finally, the authority has also received a mandate regarding situations where people have both a lack of knowledge of Swedish and a disability that results in reduced work capacity. The Government has also revised Samhall's ownership instructions on several points. For example, it is now stated that, in order to enable a broad supply of tasks adapted to the needs of different employees over time, the company should seek business opportunities in a number of industries. It is also clarified that increased turnover aims to create enough jobs. Samhall's economic objective has also been revised so that the long-term return on equity will be 5 per cent instead of previous 7 per cent. Several measures have therefore been taken regarding the management and follow-up of both the Swedish Public Employment Service's instructions to the company's workplaces and the company's operations. At the same time, it remains to be seen what Arbetsförmedlingen will come up with on the basis of the assignments submitted and if there is any reason to take further action. The government has high expectations of state-owned companies and wants them to act exemplaryly in their work with sustainable entrepreneurship. This obviously includes a healthy and safe working environment as well as good and decent working conditions. As owners, we follow the companies' work through sustainability analyses and regular and structured ownership dialogues. Within the framework of the ongoing dialogue with Samhall, we discuss safety and health including the company's work to ensure that all employees have a good working environment. This ownership dialogue and follow-up will continue. Samhall's owner's instructions have also been revised by the fact that assignment targets have been introduced for dedicated employees as well as the employment rate within the company. These changes will enable the government to follow this issue better. Employment at Samhall is just one of several actions in labour market policy for more people with disabilities to get into work. In 2020, on average, more than 65 000 people had employment with wage subsidies or protected jobs with other employers. The Government estimates in the budget proposal for 2021 that the funds for these efforts will increase in the coming years and that it will allow for an increased number of people with salary contributions with other employers. The Government has also proposed funding for 1 000 more people in the contracted work preparation service Introduction to work, which is expected to go largely to people with disabilities. In addition, the Government has made several changes to subsidised employment, which constitute important contributions for those who have long periods of unemployment and cannot find work in any other way. At the moment, I have no further information to give on planned actions, but we are following this issue very closely.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-249	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It contained several interesting confessions – some explicit, some a little more implicit – about the problems at Samhall. It was also presented with some tasks given by the government and some adjustments to the guidelines. That's good. At the same time, I must say that it is not possible to get away from a sad feeling about this. On point by point, I can see that the small measures and the twisting that the Minister described are problems that have been mentioned for quite a number of years now. Not least I myself have been one of those who have pointed out the problems. And I have not done so by mumbling in the beard, but I have done so in this House and for various Social Democratic ministers. It has been about the working environment for some of the employees at Samhall, which has raised concerns. It has also been about the very one-sided focus on presence in certain industries, especially the cleaning industry, and the problems that this has caused for the not insignificant group at Samhall that does not go well with the tasks and conditions involved in cleaning. Linked to this last problem, it has also been about who is the target group for Samhall's activities, about who Samhall is really for. Is it reasonable that many persons with disabilities of different kinds have not been considered to be fit at Samhall? It has also been about how the persons are assigned from Arbetsförmedlingen. And it has been about the method to follow the development at Samhall. It has been pointed out that there are problems with relying directly on the internal employee barometers and the like carried out by Samhall's management. When I look back, I can see that the answers have varied. Sometimes the government has had the entrance that the problems are regrettable but not systematic. Sometimes it has been said that something should change, but then not much has happened. It is remarkable and rather tragic that neither the criticism that has been present in this House, the flag of unrest by trade union representatives nor the reportage of several trade union newspapers over the years seem to have been particularly active. Perhaps the mission review programme has now moved a bit. We will see what happens with the effect of the things that the Minister is now mentioning. In my interpellation, I noted a few other things that the Minister said in connection with the programme. It sounded like there was no problem. It was said that there was no evidence that the problems would be systematic, that they were anecdotes and so on. So we'll see. But it is sad that so little has happened before, even though the criticism does not apply to any new phenomena. I would like to emphasise that the reason why I am not reassured is that it will be difficult to do anything about the problems if the government does not have a clearer idea of what to do, gives the signals and makes the necessary decisions for it. I will come back to that, but I think we need to see that we are approaching a point where the whole idea of Samhall, the whole concept, will otherwise be called into question and difficult to defend, even though there are very good and important things being done. This is a serious situation, for which I believe the government has a great deal of responsibility.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-258	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Moderates invited or called the Minister to the committee a week ago to give the Minister and the Government the opportunity to explain their very difficult situation, which Samhall is currently in. It is largely linked to what came up in the TV program Mission review. During the committee meeting, I asked some fundamental questions about the activities and statistics that I had asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to produce. The Minister was unable to answer those questions at the time. That is why I have asked for this debate today to clarify what did not come out then. A lot of people are asking questions about Samhall right now. It seems extremely relevant that we can have this discussion on a very serious issue. The problems of the misconditions and health and safety problems and the fact that Samhall has left his original mission have been known for a long time. Hence, the Riksdag, on a proposal from the Labour Market Committee, also announced to the Government that it would return with proposals for measures to enable Samhall to return to the original mission. We have not received an answer to that, even though it was in December 2019. The government says it's prepared. But we keep waiting. For the uninitiated, I can give you a short story about Samhall. It was established in 1980 through regional foundations. The main activity was production. In the 1990s, it became a state limited company with the criterion that people should be employed here who had such extensive disabilities that they could not get any other job – it is today about 25 000 employees. It was the original idea. What really happened, given what we have now learned through SVT's mission review? I'll give you a few quotes from there: Those with real needs don't come into Samhall, not a chance. You want the best staff. They're supposed to be able to stand and walk, and they're supposed to be strong. Zero quality insurance. The state doesn't care about Samhall-- it also falls back on the government. Of the employees, there is a significant increase in non-European births while the proportion of people born in Europe is decreasing. Language problems are the reason for the instruction to Samhall. And Samhall has gained an increased influence over Arbetsförmedlingen. Samhall receives 6.5 billion regardless of diagnosis and need for adaptation. Other work integration social enterprises receive compensation based on diagnosis. So there is a difference between them. Agreements with companies are not public, and business takes precedence over people. There is a lack of workplace adaptations. They have old chairs and poor lighting for those with visual problems. However, this is compensated for, so it is truly remarkable. There have been extremely strong and outrageous statements from former and current managers in Samhall. It's descriptions from reality. On the basis of all these statements, I would like to ask the Minister for Labour how things could go so far. Why have the abuses that have been known for so many years not been remedied?
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-268	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellants who initiated this important debate. As Minister for Labour, I think it feels very good that there is a great deal of commitment to Samhall, for Samhall to develop and for the right target groups to have access to Samhall's jobs. It is absolutely central to Samhall but above all to all the 26 000 people who go to work every day and feel proud of what they deliver and contribute. During the spring, Samhall has received attention in several critical reviews and various reports. I very much welcome the fact that the problems are coming up on the table, Madam President, because that is how we can address the problems. I agree that the problems should be taken seriously. As I explained, we have, among other things, given a number of assignments to the Public Employment Service to review the instructions and the application of the rules. If there are shortcomings in the instructions, I feel confident that they will come up on the table so that we can do something about them. Now remains to be seen what Arbetsförmedlingen will find out based on the assignments that have been submitted and if there is reason to take further action. If that is the case, of course, we do not hesitate about it. Basically, it is about Samhall being there for those for whom it is intended. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the right target group will end up in the operation. That is why we have clarified the regulatory framework for instructions for, among other things, protected work. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the assignment that the Swedish Public Employment Service has received regarding the situation with people who have both a lack of knowledge of Swedish and a disability with reduced working capacity, which Saila Quicklund partly touched in her speech. It is important to say that this assignment does not include employment at Samhall, as the need for efforts to improve language skills should be addressed before being assigned to Samhall. Arbetsförmedlingen shall review its working methods and processes to ensure that appropriate interventions are given to persons with disabilities who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. People who have both a disability and a weak knowledge of Swedish should receive the right support to get a job and be able to work in a workplace. A starting point should be that a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language should be counteracted early, including to increase the possibility of work without other government interventions even when the person has a disability. I look forward to discussing with the Employment Committee, among other things, the results of the assignments we have now given to the Employment Service when we have them on the table. On this basis, we can continue the discussion and ensure that Samhall really exists for those for whom it is for. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to what Mrs Quicklund said about the mission and how Samhall has developed. During previous roles I have had the opportunity to follow Samhall's activities very closely. I also know people who work in Samhall and who have received their own job thanks to the instructions. It is important that Samhall develops as the labour market develops. It is also important that people get meaningful jobs, such as those that are really demanded in the Swedish labour market. I do not want to go back to sheltered workshops, but I think it is important that those who work at Samhall can do so in the labour market, also in competition with other companies. That is what gives real jobs, and that is what we should strive for.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-274	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to mention that the Minister referred in his reply to various assignments given to the Employment Service. I cannot help but think of the many debates I have had in recent years with representatives of the government, including the Minister himself, and of the government's working parties on the Employment Service. We have an authority that is now in chronic crisis and is unable to take on some of its basic everyday tasks. It is easier that there will be situations where the focus will be on getting people out of their own statistics, for example. Allow me, therefore, to maintain some scepticism about how it will work in practice. There is, of course, hope, and I would be pleased if this meant an improvement for those who have a job through Samhall or in the future will get it. In my last post, I was into something that is absolutely central. As a society, we need a broader ambition. It is about an ambition for a strategy for a more spacious working life, a working life that takes heights for which people live in real Sweden and which is also based on the understanding that people's work capacity can and will change over time. I really believe that Samhall can and should be part of the palette of measures. There may be other things, such as various types of wage subsidies, aids of various kinds and guidance, to use them. It can be about efforts made in civil society and in work integration social enterprises. For this to work well, it must be part of a coherent policy for full employment and development. It must be a policy based on what may sound like a flosskel but certainly is not, namely that everyone should be able to be needed on the basis of their conditions and that everyone should be able to work to 100% of their ability. It is a pity that we are a long way from this policy now. That is regrettable. But in addition to the related problems that have been in Samhall and which unfortunately remain, I think there is somewhere where the shoe really squeezes, if you take a step back and look at this. I am aware that some of the criticisms that come from the right and from the government's cooperation parties have some other motives than concern for those who need Samhall's support. It is perhaps more a question of representing the commercial competition interests that exist in some of the sectors in which Samhall operates. However, it will be difficult to deal with this when there is no clearer picture of what role Samhall should play in practice. I would like to emphasise this. This is something that has long been mentioned. The data that came out of the Mission review are not new in itself. It has been pointed out from various quarters that there is a systematic relationship between Arbetsförmedlingen and Samhall that does not match what is on paper and so on. Activities aimed at people with severe disabilities have been squeezed out. That is what prompted my question, which I would like the Minister to come back to. Is there an initiative for a broader review of policies for people who, for various reasons, cannot be on the labour market without special support and where Samhall forms part of a whole? I think that is really necessary, and I call for answers from the Minister on that.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-281	Madam President, I would like I come back to the questions I asked in committee. The Minister has now had time to prepare for them. We didn't get an answer there. Every third person within Samhall has a cognitive disability. This group, together with those with reduced learning skills, has increased dramatically. My question is: what classification is used in this context? What is meant by a cognitive disability? I know what is meant, but I call for what is meant in these contexts with regard to Samhall. It might be considered that these are issues at a detailed level, but they are not. This is extremely relevant because this group has grown so significantly. You must have a good knowledge of the diagnostic groups within Samhall before any adjustment is made. Something has happened in a short time, and an analysis is needed. Every fifth person has impaired learning ability. I would like clarification of that concept as well. At the same time, the number of employees with reduced or limited mobility has halved in five years. In 2015, they had 26 per cent, and by 2020 it is 12 per cent. That is a remarkable reduction, and I would like to have some comments on it. These details are important so that we really understand the cause and effect, as I said. The age range has also changed. In 2011, 60 per cent were over 45 years of age, and in nine years that group has fallen to 20 per cent. We can also look at gender balance. That is 65% of men and 35% of women, that is to say, a large excess of men. The Minister's analysis of this would be interesting. I'm filling up with voices around Samhall from the community. Managers have pointed out that there is no personal introduction of employees and no adaptation to each person's abilities. We're all going on the same schedule. Statskontoret sounded the alarm several years ago about a lower proportion of people with a disability and an increased proportion of foreign born with a capacity to work. The proportion of people in need of support and adaptation has decreased as the requirements have been tightened. This was pointed out by Statskontoret as early as 2017. In addition, the company receives a lump sum of several billions, and there are major problems with the compensation being paid out precisely in lump sums. It is difficult to follow what the money has been spent on; it is also remarkable. The Swedish National Audit Office states that it is not possible to derive from either the annual report or any other financial report how the compensation has been used. It is therefore a state-owned company that does not have that transparency. That is most remarkable, I must say. My question to the Minister for Labour from this point of view is: how can the government or the Minister for Labour tolerate this? It is therefore a question of tax revenue, and every dollar should be evaluated. Is it right, for the individual worker but also for society at large? The lack of transparency is remarkable. The Minister may comment on this.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-292	Madam President, I would like Each tax chandelier shall be used for what it is intended for. It is also central to the work that we are now doing from the government and in the missions we have given to ensure, among other things, that the right target group is assigned to Samhall. Of course, having good working conditions is also a very important starting point. I really do share Ali Ali's picture. We will create a working life where everyone can and is needed – a working life that provides opportunities to contribute based on their own ability, which provides both security, development and job satisfaction and where you have good conditions. This should apply to everyone in our elongated country, so it is an important starting point. Today we are seeing a two-way division in the Swedish labour market. This is why the government is taking a variety of measures to both meet the needs of people with a disability that involves reduced work capacity and provide the opportunity for anyone who has a lower level of education to replenish their skills in order to take the jobs that are emerging in the economy. There is no doubt that the labour market has changed. There are tougher demands today, as Saila Quicklund describes. This has also affected Samhall and the working life of its employees. In addition to major investments in, for example, education reforms and support for people in accessing different types of education, we also have a number of new reforms under way. One such job is establishment, which is also important if you look at the large group that is far removed from the labour market today, such as the long-term unemployed. The government is therefore taking a variety of measures to ensure the very working life we are talking about, where you have a job and the right to self-support – a working life where everyone can and is needed, quite simply. This is a very important starting point for me and the government. Madam President, I would like From the left, the discussion sometimes arises that business is a problem for Samhall. From the right, it sometimes sounds exactly the opposite: Samhall has such good economic conditions that they dump prices; they raise the issue of competition. I do not agree with the interpellants on any of these perspectives. I would like to say something briefly about how I and the government view the model of Samhall and why it is designed that way. The idea of Samhall is for people to get real jobs. Instead, in many countries fake jobs have been created, where people with disabilities end up in passivity. We don't believe it. People with disabilities should get real jobs where they can really contribute and are needed. That's how you get development, community and pride in your working life. For this to be possible via Samhall Samhall must produce what is actually needed and demanded in the labour market. This means, in practice, that it also competes with other operators for market assignments. It is obvious to us that the work should be adapted to the conditions for those assigned to Samhall and have a disability that entails reduced work capacity. That is why Samhall receives compensation from the state: in order to compensate and adapt the work of these individuals. Business should therefore never be pursued at the expense of employees. It is for those who Samhall exists, and the work should always be adapted to the employees' conditions.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-302	Madam President, I would like It's a recurring point of reference that we're not going back to a sheltered workshop. When it comes to industrial production of a simpler kind, the needs have changed, as has the functioning of the economy. But I think that we must then have a better answer to what those people who previously might be very well suited for jobs in this type of production should do instead, which can be safe and developing for them. Work by the government and Samhall is needed to move forward on this issue. The solution for too many people has been that they have said that it is great that we grow in the cleaning industry, for example, and it works well for some people at Samhall. But it works very badly for others, and they're the ones who get caught. For this to work, I mean that it is very important that you really listen to the employees and their union representatives. I really think it is important to emphasise that it cannot always be done in the same way as when you ask middle managers how they are doing at work. It takes effort and effort to find out the real problems and listen to people's different experiences of being at Samhall. I think, as I said, that there are a number of things that are good in what the Minister said, but I remain very concerned about how to solve these major structural problems. The Minister repeats some points of departure, on which we agree, but it is not enough to have good starting points if you happen to go the wrong way. I therefore hope that we can continue this dialogue.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-306	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I have to comment on this in a commercial manner. So it is a question of winning a bid because you can have low costs, for example SEK 150 per hour for two people who do lawn mowing. Then you agree with both fuel and the machines themselves. There is no one else who can compete with such things. Perhaps the most remarkable thing is that when Samhall's own staff do not have sufficient skills or abilities, they take in subcontractors, that is, completely healthy people. It is about cleaning at Arlanda and at SF's cinemas in Stockholm, where healthy people work in Samhall's organisation. It is extremely remarkable, and there are great questions about it. I would just like to make a comment on this matter of commercialism. I hear what the Minister says in the report on measures. Better late than never, you might say. It is good that the Minister has high expectations, and we will follow that. The Moderates have had many debates about Samhall, and we will continue to do so. There are major shortcomings in the working environment, lack of individual adaptations and unhealthy competitive situation. This is about Samhall choosing his employees. Persons with physical disabilities do not fit while persons without disabilities work in Samhall. The age structure has changed, as has the gender balance. People who are employed in regular cleaning companies work in Samhall, as I said. The list can be made long. The Moderates will follow this question. It is extremely relevant and important. Nevertheless, I would like to conclude by thanking the Minister for giving us the opportunity to discuss an extremely important subject.
i-ccc35fd96e60b744-311	Madam President, I would like Thanks to the interpellants! I would like to conclude by saying that I feel a great pride in Samhall. I welcome the fact that shortcomings and problems are coming up, because that is how we can also do something about them. I have also said this earlier in this debate. An important issue raised by both interpellants is the provision of meaningful work within a wide range of work activities that also respond to the needs of individuals. Both Saila Quicklund and Ali Esbati were on that issue. That is one of the reasons why we, the government, have given Samhall a mandate to just increase the breadth of different types of jobs depending on what kind of problems the individual needs to be supported with and find a good job from outside. As I said, we are now taking many different measures on the part of the government. It is about the working environment, the instructions and the financial conditions for the company, and it is about ensuring that Samhall is active in a wide range of different activities. All of this is important for Samhall to be able to offer meaningful and developing jobs where the individual gets a job based on his/her conditions. Problem to be addressed, point. But I do not want to let this get in the way of seeing that Samhall is an extremely important activity that we should also be proud of. My ambition is to continue to develop Samhall to become even better. You should be able to offer meaningful jobs with a good working environment for everyone who works there.
