i-e3dc8801dc93811e-0	Madam President, I would like Sweden has long supported the Afghan people. We did so during the occupation of the Soviet Union, we did so during the 1996-2001 Taliban regime, and we have done so in the 20 years that have passed since 11 September 2001. Swedish policy for Afghanistan's future is clear: we will do what we can to continue to support its vulnerable population, to counter a humanitarian disaster and its consequences, including a potential refugee crisis, and to save what we can from achievements to women's and girls' rights and education. We will not give aid to the Taliban, and we will not legitimise the forces that want to destroy what we have worked for. On the other hand, we will work towards an inclusive government and an active regional diplomacy. In the humanitarian crisis that is going on, it is the population that is being affected. Therefore, the government has moved SEK 300 million from bilateral development aid to humanitarian aid. What remains to be fought for in terms of peace, freedom and human rights should have our support as well as the millions of women and children who need food, care and education. The efforts we and like-minded people have made in Afghanistan have not been in vain. Our presence has contributed to security, which in turn has been a prerequisite for development aid. Afghans today have more education and access to health care. The enjoyment of human rights by women and girls has improved radically since the last Taliban regime. It is another country that will face the government that has taken over. However, the temporary government recently appointed by the Taliban does not include a single woman. The inclusive aspect, which the Taliban themselves have said the government would have, is very limited. This is worrying for women's and girls' enjoyment of human rights as well as for persons belonging to minorities. We must stand up for respect for human rights, for the principles of the rule of law and for democracy. We need to recall Afghanistan's international obligations. On this I have had discussions with colleagues in Europe and outside Europe, as well as on the need for humanitarian access which is crucial in order to avoid a humanitarian crisis. Nearly 20 million people in Afghanistan are in need of humanitarian aid. Clear messages must be communicated by the UN, the EU and regional organisations such as the OSSE, but also by countries in the region and by the US. We are all facing the same challenges: how do we relate to the Taliban in order to help reduce the suffering of the people? How do we avoid Afghanistan becoming a hub for terrorist groups again? And how do we avoid developments in Afghanistan having consequences beyond its borders? The security situation in the country is highly uncertain and we must all contribute to ensuring that it does not worsen. That is why the demand for an inclusive government, which reflects the entire population of Afghanistan, is so important. An aggravating humanitarian crisis, flows of refugees and terrorism are at risk of causing instability beyond Afghanistan's borders as well. The Central Asian countries have an important role to play in this. And we shall have a dialogue with them directly, as I have done and do through the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE. The Taliban's contacts with Russia, China and Pakistan can influence the power relations in the region, which is why Sweden must be attentive to developments and have close contacts with allies. Sweden will not abandon the Afghan people; it has our long-term support.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-11	Madam President, I would like Being a woman is not a crime, but for that you can be punished in Taliban Afghanistan. Being a journalist is not a crime, but for that you can be punished in Taliban Afghanistan. It is about this debate today – the new and harsh situation that has arisen after the Kabul government has fallen rapidly like a house of cards. Madam President, I would like Allow me to express respect for the skill shown by many from the Foreign Service, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Migration Agency during the difficult and dangerous operation of rescuing people out of Afghanistan during a chaotic evacuation. I would like to thank these women and men very much. But after that, there is reason to start listing the issues that require the government side to shoulder its political responsibilities. Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde has stressed that there have been up-to-date evacuation plans for Sweden's embassy staff. However, the planning and preparation for everyone else seems to have been lacking or to be a work that has started very late. Despite the progress of the Taliban, Sweden was waiting, while other countries were already many months ahead of Kabul's fall on 15 August. Self-critically the government must acknowledge the unworthy in all the time that was wasted on political quarreling with the opposition, when the Moderates already in July made concrete proposals on how the interpreters who previously helped Sweden now would be given help from Sweden? First, there was talk of constitutional violations and ministerial rule. Then the figure was claimed to be 10,000. After a completely unnecessary political conflict, the government changed and used the quota refugee system – as we had said, and just as the government ministers had opposed. Over 1,100 people have now been evacuated to Sweden. Of these, two interpreters have so far been involved. That brings a different question to light. Can the government say with certainty that all persons who have been admitted to Sweden have established and safe identity and do not pose a security risk? At least two people who have previously been expelled from Sweden were found at Arlanda Airport on flights evacuated from Afghanistan. Madam President, I would like The Taliban rule — a regime of only men and some who have been labeled international terrorists. The whole system is rocking. To this can be added previous years' drought, lack of food and other resources. A humanitarian disaster can be to wait until winter with the risk of large flows of refugees. From the Swedish Government, it has been said: Not a trip to the Taliban! And aid has been turned so that the money goes to the humanitarian and the emergency. It is a change that we are behind. That is why we are calling for a broader evaluation of the years in Afghanistan and not just what the government has said about a customary investigation into the military element. It shall be a broad investigation including the presence of civilians and assistance. Is the government planning a broad evaluation, or is it to be blown into unnecessary battle here too, just as it was done about the interpreters and their situation?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-20	Madam President, I would like It is a terrible and deeply tragic situation that we see in Afghanistan, where up to 97% of the Afghan population are at risk of falling below the poverty line as early as next year. The rapid and ruthless advance of the Taliban was and is worrying, and I think there are many of us who were shocked by the fact that the Islamists were able to take control of practically the whole country so quickly. In spite of this, we must not forget the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts which deserve great praise on the basis of the conditions. At the same time, we must show our full support for the veterans who today suffer from trauma after their foreign service. We must also pay tribute to the five Swedes who have fallen in Afghanistan. All the Swedes who have served there deserve an enormous thank you, and they should be proud of their historic contribution. Madam President, I would like Given the current situation, it is extremely important that we remember that it is only naive to believe that the Taliban would be a reliable negotiating partner. We have seen a number of examples of this. Ideology remains unchanged, and several former Taliban leaders remain. Infamous terrorists take power positions and implement the same elements that characterized the previous Taliban regime. Not least after presenting their new so-called government, we see clearly that this is the case: the entire five ministers are former Guantánamo prisoners of Al-Qaeda. As we are now going to work to help the civilian population in the country, caution is therefore required. The Swedish Democrats have constantly criticised the government for the lack of control over where Swedish aid funds go in one of the world's most corrupt countries. The latest EBA report clearly demonstrated how aid may have been counterproductive. It is clear that aid has largely not only been squandered and continued to fertilise corruption, but also may have countered the very purpose. In other words, our long-standing criticism is solid, and it is perhaps more important than ever that aid is strictly focused on the humanitarian, that is, food and medicines. Madam President, I would like Sweden's engagement in Afghanistan must be evaluated. I am not only talking about the almost obvious, namely an evaluation of the impact and consequences of aid, but, of course, I am also talking about our military contribution. Although our armed forces have contributed much good to individuals, it is not possible to escape the fact that it is also a fundamental failure of the strategy of military foreign intervention. It is quite clear that a good relationship with the United States was a more important factor for the operation in Afghanistan than concern for its future. The lives of Swedish soldiers must never be put at risk in efforts that lack reasonable goals.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-25	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank all those sent and their relatives who have committed themselves for 20 years to carrying out our decisions on the basis of the mandate of the United Nations. Sweden has been present with armed force, at the invitation of the Government of Afghanistan. Your efforts have made a difference to security and development, to open the doors of democracy to the Afghan people and to give women and girls strength, education, a face and a visible place in society. Change takes time. Freedom won and dreams lit live on. The Taliban's path to taking power raises many questions. Leaving Afghanistan together, in more orderly forms, would have been possible. The end of our joint operation concerns, among other things, crisis management, adaptability and planning. In the midst of the chaos that followed, great efforts were made. Thanks to everyone, from Sweden and globally, who with their efforts made it possible to evacuate over 1 100 people to Sweden and together over 120 000 people during 17 days! Madam President, I would like What we have seen happen shows that the international presence was necessary to provide the conditions for development, greater freedom and democracy, but it also gives us many more insights. One of them is the importance of creating an informed basis for the future. The Center Party wants to see a broad analysis of our 20 years in Afghanistan including everything from aid and diplomacy to military operations, including an international outlook. It must have a parliamentary dimension to ensure a sound basis for future decisions. Sweden is building security together with others, and we do not want Sweden to withdraw from efforts with the EU, NATO and the UN. The Center Party believes that Sweden's overall commitment has been so broad and comprehensive that a special parliamentary committee should be set up. Madam President, I would like We asked for this debate after following the action of the government. The Secretary of State has been clear: there has been an evacuation plan for the embassy staff. However, there seems to have been no contingency plans or a common attitude within the government regarding the evacuation of local employees. A few days before Kabul fell, one of the government's ministers even questioned the need to help the Afghans who contributed to our efforts and our local workers – this while other countries clearly demonstrated the desire to protect and give refuge to Afghans who have been part of international efforts. Many of those brought to Sweden should not have had to leave in chaos. More could have been evacuated to safety. Our twenty-year military operation in Afghanistan could have ended in a more dignified way. The responsibility is shared by many, but ultimately the government bears responsibility for Sweden's actions.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-30	Madam President, I would like The takeover of power by the Taliban is a severe blow to the already tried Afghan people. The takeover of power by the Taliban threatens small but tangible democratic progress made in the country. Women and girls in particular are at risk of being deprived of their economic and social rights, such as going to school, being able to choose their job, sports and access maternal health care – simply having the power over their own lives. The chaotic evacuation began too late and left behind many who had helped us and who needed our protection. We must now take responsibility for protecting all human rights defenders, women's rights activists, journalists and interpreters who remain in Afghanistan and are now in danger of being tortured and killed by the Taliban. Sweden must therefore immediately increase the reception of quota refugees from 5 000 to 10 000. In Sweden, Afghans who have received or are at risk of having an expulsion decision must immediately stay and be given permanent security here. Call it what you want – we have already expelled too many thousands to the Taliban whippings. Their lives are on your conscience. Sweden's support and assistance to Afghanistan must continue unabated. The international community now needs to back the UN, both politically and economically. Sweden, in cooperation with other countries, needs to push for a leading role for the UN. The UN is clear that it intends to do so. This is also true of many aid actors, and as a Swede one must be particularly proud of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee's work. If we do not support them, the drought, the famine and the coronapander will hit many Afghans hard. The whole idea of the US invasion of Afghanistan was based on an imperialist thought. The military exodus of the United States, Sweden and Western countries shows that the interests of the Afghan people were never put first. It is an inevitable end to a military operation that was doomed from the outset to failure. The Afghan people have now paid the price for this over-reliance on military solutions. Sweden's 20 years in Afghanistan is the largest and longest military operation we have carried out abroad. The proximity to NATO and the United States has seriously damaged Sweden's international reputation. Civilly, the aid has consisted of SEK 1 billion annually, and Afghanistan has been the country that has received the most Swedish aid for several years in a row. This must be thoroughly and seriously evaluated. Now that the government is not doing so, we in the opposition will join forces, from left to right, to ensure that it becomes a reality. The commitment to Afghanistan is great in Sweden. It is great with those who have fled, with those who are veterans and with those who now stand outside the parliament and demonstrate. Let us seize that and continue to support the Afghan people – not the Taliban!
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-35	Madam President, I would like These days we are honouring the victims of the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. The enormous thing that happened then has a direct bearing on what we are debating today. It was in Afghanistan's pine-clad valleys, deep caves and tunnel systems that the Al-Qaida terrorist network planned and trained. It was the refuge of the Taliban that 20 000 Islamic recruits arrived to learn from Usama bin Laden's message and deadly skills in what has been called a university of terror. Madam President, I would like We are all deeply concerned when we are reminded of the Taliban's reign of terror in 1996-2001. This is one of the most atrocious systems the world has experienced. Despite this – despite the public executions and the oppression of women – the new Islamic Emirate is exulting in some places. Propaganda and jihadist chat forums celebrate what is called the Taliban's historic victory. The new regime, in which more than half of the persons are on the UN sanctions list, is welcomed, as is the return of Al Qaeda to Afghanistan. This is a return that, according to terrorist experts, is inevitable. During the Doha peace negotiations, Taliban representatives claimed that relations with Al-Qaida were broken. However, this information has been rejected and refuted by the UN. The other day, therefore, the UN Member States were called upon to act, in particular the members of the Security Council. All the tools need to be used to face the global terrorist threat in Afghanistan," said Secretary General Guterres. The Western countries must unite to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a haven for terrorism, said British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Of all the challenges now associated with Afghanistan, the Taliban's connection to terrorism is among the most serious. If we do not realise this and do not respond to the calls for action, then the outcome is due – then what happened in September 2001 will happen again.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-41	Madam President, I would like We from Sweden can be proud of our long-standing presence in Afghanistan. It is precisely the focus on the Afghan people that Sweden has managed to keep all these years – that we from the Swedish side have kept our heads cool and put many other political goals aside to protect the Afghan people – who have made us so successful with many of the things we have undertaken in Afghanistan. It has been serious and long-term, and it has built trust. It has enabled the establishment of girls' schools. This has enabled us to ensure that there was basic care available to many of the Afghan people. This has enabled supplies to reach those who needed them. This has been because Sweden has had a long-term commitment that has remained regardless of what has happened in the rest of the country. We shall be proud of that, and we shall continue to do so. Madam President, I would like The terrorist terror regime that has now taken Kabul and is now ruling Afghanistan is a regime that considers it criminal to stand up for human rights and persecute people who do this. It is about journalists and about women who live ordinary lives and who thus exercise their human rights. The people in this regime are people who think it is criminal to act as an interpreter or to help countries like Sweden in their commitments in Afghanistan. Although we can be proud of humanitarian aid and of our long-standing presence in Afghanistan, I think one can be amazed at the lack of self-criticism in terms of evacuation and the situation that has prevailed recently. When we from Sweden have failed to get all the ones we had wanted out – when we from Sweden have acted too late and failed to see the signals in time to be able to act – we must be very self-critical. In this context, I would like to thank the Swedish Armed Forces, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and others who have been there and helped, both former ones, during our long-standing presence and during the evacuation. However, I would also like to criticise the political leadership very strongly. It has been characterised by being too little and too late, and there is a very great responsibility. Madam President, I would like Our presence in Afghanistan in the form of humanitarian aid must be allowed to continue, because the Afghan people must be given priority. But we should also be self-critical of recent Swedish actions.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-48	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that there is a great deal of commitment to Afghanistan in this House and around Sweden. The commitment is great, but it looks different. It is everything from family homes, good men and teachers who have received young Afghans in their homes and classrooms to one – after all these years of conflict – Afghan diaspora in Sweden and around the world who dreams of a different future for their country than we now see being painted. It is people that we now know need long-term protection in Sweden and in other countries. The engagement is shown through organisations such as the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which conducts education and health care in a damaged country. The commitment is also shown by all those who have participated in Swedish efforts for many years. For the Green Party, international engagement is well founded in our three solidaritys: with the planet, with the world's people and with future generations. With that basis, it is natural to assist the people who live in Afghanistan and their fight for equality, human rights and a free and secure life, just as any of us wants. Madam President, I would like to emphasise this very strongly: it is primarily about the people who live in Afghanistan; it is not primarily about the rest of us. But that said, international solidarity is something that serves the whole world well. Every country that is becoming more secure and democratic increases security for all of us. Many, not to say all, were surprised at how quickly the Taliban took power. As a matter of fact, few people say that they knew it was going to happen this fast. It could also have been felt that everything would have gone faster, easier and better in every way, but an emergency situation is an emergency.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-53	Madam President, I would like On 27 August, Sweden concluded one of its most difficult evacuations ever. The rapid advance of the Taliban, which surprised the whole world, created a situation that no one, either in Washington or in Europe, had predicted. For a few weeks we evacuated in close cooperation with other countries over 1,100 people from Afghanistan. We managed to resettle more than 660 Afghan citizens to Sweden against all odds. This included all of the embassy's local staff and guards with families as well as some former local employees who worked for the Swedish ISAF force, and their families. Sweden also helped EU employees to evacuate. We in Sweden were not slower in evacuating our local employees than most of the other countries that evacuated local workers from their embassies. I myself had talks with my Foreign Affairs colleagues in Pakistan and Georgia to secure permits and more. At the beginning of the operation, I also had long talks with the American administration. Among the Afghans who were resettled urgently were a number of women's rights defenders, human rights defenders and journalists who could come to Sweden as quota refugees. Of course, the ambition was to evacuate even more, and we were prepared to do so. The difficult and risky circumstances made this impossible, but we did more than we or any other countries in this extremely difficult situation could be expected to do. One problem, as you know, was that the Taliban stopped Afghan citizens whom we managed to get to the airport. We are now working on various solutions to assist particularly vulnerable groups and other remaining ones that we want to evacuate. Those who wish to leave the country must be allowed to do so in a safe and orderly manner. Of course, the takeover of the Taliban in Afghanistan affects the security of the region. There is concern in neighbouring countries about continuing conflict, that Afghanistan will become a haven for terrorists and drug smugglers and for large-scale refugee flows. So far, no major cross-border changes have been observed, but the situation is unclear. There are also signs of an increasing humanitarian crisis. Also, Taliban governance is not as inclusive as many had hoped, which can create conflicts between different groups in society. Recent demonstrations also show people's dissatisfaction, which will hardly decrease if the humanitarian crisis worsens. The situation gives cause for concern and we cannot rule out an armed conflict. We must do everything we can to support the Afghan people.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-63	Madam President, I would like I have three questions for the Foreign Minister. Firstly, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share the image I painted in my speech that there was an unworthy political argument about the interpreters? It was argued from the government side that it would be a constitutional offence, ministerial rule and about 10,000 people, and now maybe two interpreters have arrived. Secondly, the Centre Party, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, like the Moderates, have expressed the need for a broad evaluation, not only of the military effort, but also of the civilian and aid. Does the Government intend to meet with Parliament on this point? Thirdly, there have been over 1 100 people coming to Sweden. Are we sure about everyone's identity? As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, it was in chaotic conditions that the evacuation took place. How should we deal with those we are not sure of have the correct identity?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-67	Madam President, I would like I agree that it is an unworthy political argument when the Moderates, precisely to try to get political points, constantly bring together different things that have nothing to do with each other. It's very unworthy. I'm very sorry about that. As far as evaluation is concerned, the commitment of the last 20 years to Afghanistan must of course be evaluated in different ways. Some major evaluations have been carried out and some progress has been made. We need to see how to do this in the best possible way. There have been several governments, there have been aid, military and other things and we have started work on how to best evaluate this. When it comes to securing everyone's identity, in Sweden, as in many other countries, it has been able to slip through some people who would not have come through – they have been stopped at Arlanda– although we have had three control stations. We must try to avoid this. They are now in custody.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-70	Madam President, I would like I honestly do not understand why the government always makes it so extremely difficult. When there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament behind a broad evaluation of the efforts in Afghanistan during the 20 years, it should be quite simple for a government that still wants to play with open cards and show its books to the Riksdag to meet. As far as unworthiness is concerned, Madam President, I would like to know exactly how the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks what the Moderates proposed to use the quota refugee system, as we did at the end of July and as the government itself has then done, was unworthy. Put this in the light of statements by the government on ministerial government, on constitutional violations and on 10 000 people, now that there are two interpreters! What, Madam President, in this has been unworthy?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-73	Madam President, I would like I note the high tone of the Moderates' representative. Of course, there are no substantive questions and suggestions on how to act that are unworthy. The unworthy thing is to bring together different parts to get political points, which is what the Moderates have been doing all along. When we, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs staff down there have all worked year-round before and around the clock during this time, they try instead to score political points. It's unworthy. We must, of course, have a broad evaluation, and we are looking at the forms of it. There are a lot of different aspects here, but of course we need an evaluation.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-76	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister seems to have no self-criticism. When other countries evacuated Sweden sat relatively still in the boat. No elaborate plan seemed to exist. Lateness has characterized Swedish management with devastating consequences, and they could have been far worse. There is therefore a wide range of questions to be answered. Why did Sweden wait so long to evacuate its embassy staff? Was there any plan at all for non-sent Swedish personnel? I have tried to get answers to these questions but never got any good answers. How many on the so-called Swedish list are actually Swedish citizens, and how has the list been quality assured? How has the safety assessment been handled?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-79	Madam President, I would like I'll start from behind. As far as the Swedish list is concerned, it is therefore something that Swedish citizens or persons with a permanent residence permit can register voluntarily for information in a country. After helping them with the evacuation themselves, they have been given a visa or permanent residence permit, which was checked both at Kabul airport and then at the hubs they had. There is no security check by Swedish citizens who want to come home, but you check that they are Swedish citizens or that they have a permanent residence permit. As far as slowness is concerned, I can only say that we managed to bring home all the local employees and all the guards with all their families. We were not later than most other countries. On the other hand, some countries that had many more local employees started out than we had much earlier. The planning started before the summer.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-84	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that there was no broad plan for evacuation. We see this not least when it comes to the handling of the interpreters. As Hans Wallmark said, two interpreters were evacuated and came home, while Morgan Johansson talked about tens of thousands with families and everything he counted there. At the same time, we know that people have come to Sweden who have received an entry ban to Sweden, expelled people who have not here to do. The whole process is marked by chaos. And yes, there was chaos in Afghanistan, but it did not have to be as chaotic as it actually was because the government had no planning in good time. At the same time as other countries evacuated Sweden sat still in the boat. Some adjustments were made, of course, but it was far too late. And when it comes to the interpreters, we shouldn't even talk. The interpreters didn't care until the last days, and then it was too late.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-86	Madam President, I would like I can only say that Markus Wiechel has a completely incorrect picture of reality. We managed to evacuate over 1,100 people. We brought home all the local staff, all the guards and all their families, and we started work with the so-called interpreters. This is not about two three interpreters, but about those who were local employees during the ISAF Force until 31 December 2014. At that time, the former government, which was then responsible for the ISAF force, started a job and, together with the Swedish Armed Forces, got a number out. Some did not pass the security clearance, some came here, some were studying in other countries and some were relocated in Afghanistan. And now that the danger again increased for them, the work was set in motion. However, this needs to be checked for safety, and that should be understood by Markus Wiechel.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-88	Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants a broad analysis of 20 years, including aid, diplomacy, military operations and international outlook. We would like to hear whether the Minister and the Government are also prepared to set up a parliamentary committee. The image from Tone Tingsgård leaves quite a lot to be desired. There is a need for broad scrutiny, and it needs to have a parliamentary dimension in order to ensure that we have a good chance of making further decisions, whether it be aid, military or otherwise. Is the government prepared to meet us in this? We know there was an evacuation plan for the sent. But were there in advance also reserve plans and plans for a larger circuit?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-93	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Kerstin Lundgren that we need to evaluate our entire engagement in Afghanistan – aid, military and political t – for the last 20 years. We have begun to prepare what this should look like. I cannot tell you exactly how it is going to be today, but we are looking at how to get this broad evaluation. With regard to the evacuation plan, I would like to remind you of what applies under international law, that is to say that we must ensure the safety of those sent, but that the country in which we are in is responsible for the local staff. But when we saw that the local staff at the Swedish Embassy could be threatened, we began to discuss before the summer how we would handle it, and there was a plan that unfortunately we could not fully implement. But we got all the local employees and their families home.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-96	Madam President, I would like I very much hope that the Minister will also take on board the parliamentary dimension. It is important if we are to avoid having a permanent Afghanistan factor in any further debate on military operations and aid. We need a broader look-through there too. So to plans and backup plans. When President Trump decided to end the operation, everyone early understood that the Taliban would take over, and they also quickly took over parts of Afghanistan. It is therefore surprising that the planning did not get under way for local employees and other staff who could be in need. This understanding should not have come in the last few weeks, but should have existed earlier. It was in other people's homes.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-98	Madam President, I would like I think we should continue to discuss how we can best evaluate the commitment of Sweden as a whole. There are, of course, different governments that have been responsible for military operations, aid and more, so there are certainly reasons – not least because we will certainly think about this when we make other decisions. When, for example, the Riksdag decides on efforts, this will be very important. As I said, as far as planning is concerned, we began to look at this before the summer. There are many legal and other aspects to local workers who can have enormous consequences for our actions. It is not about 10 000, but a great many more if we were to set a precedent for the future. I note, however, that we got home all the local staff and their families and all the guards and their families, and we continue to try to get them home from the ISAF force which was not taken home by the previous government.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-101	Madam President, I would like Chaos and lack of time are probably two words that best describe the exodus of Sweden, the United States and the Western world from Afghanistan. The fact that people are trying to cling to airplanes shows their fear of a Taliban empire and what that might mean. Sweden managed to evacuate more than 1,100 people. It was an impressive air bridge that for days worked well to save both Swedes and Afghans from Taliban rule. Swedish civilian and military personnel did a fantastic job. But many remained. Three Swedish buses in distress were stopped in the final phase of the evacuation of the Taliban, and on 27 August the Minister of Foreign Affairs announced that the evacuation was completed. However, many human rights fighters, women's rights activists, journalists and former local employees remain in Taliban terror in Afghanistan. What will the government do for all the human rights fighters left? When will we be able to evacuate them? And those who are here in Sweden who have an expulsion decision to Afghanistan, what does the government do for them?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-106	Madam President, I would like As I said, we continue to find ways to evacuate especially those who have a Swedish connection, journalists, writers, MR fighters and so on. This can hopefully be done in cooperation with the EU. We have said that the European Union must help each other in order to obtain authorisation for, for example, flights and so on and that the European External Action Service should place itself in Kabul in order to be able to help with, for example, women judges and with the groups I have mentioned. I very much hope that we will succeed in this. As far as Afghans in Sweden are concerned, no expulsion decisions are now being implemented because they are grounds for non-execution.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-108	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes it clear that the evacuation is not complete. I am pleased because we need to continue to fight for all those who have fought for a freer Afghanistan. The best way is to increase the reception of so-called quota refugees. Sweden today receives 5 000 quota refugees, but that could be 10 000. We need to open up and temporarily expand the quota refugee system so that people who have family here or have been wrongly expelled from here are covered. We have already deported too many thousands to Taliban terror in Afghanistan. Quota refugees are the only group to receive permanent residence permits, and this system is one of the few safe routes to Sweden. In cooperation with the UN and the embassies, as described by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, new ways can be opened up so that Sweden can become a haven. And for those who are already here, we must be done with this bullshit we've been having for six years. Yes, now there are temporary suspensions. But they must be told that they will actually be allowed to stay here in the future, because the Taliban will probably be running Afghanistan for a long time.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-112	Madam President, I would like The issue of quota refugees is not on my table. But let me put it this way: it is also important that we find ways to support those who remain in Afghanistan. If all the well-educated are taken from there, the future will be even more difficult for Afghanistan. However, we must have assurances that they can remain and be supported both in humanitarian and other ways, and now more and more attention is being paid to the possibility and security of women, not least, to continue working in Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-114	Madam President, I would like In the preface to a recent book on Afghanistan, Social Democrat Thage G Peterson takes the floor. Peterson, former Minister of Defence, criticises the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts. He writes that Swedish soldiers had nothing to do in Afghanistan. I will not ask Ann Linde to review her party colleague, but since he claims to represent a broad opposition to Sweden's efforts, I would nevertheless like to ask: how is it that Social Democracy is unable to stand together behind the Swedish Armed Forces and the personnel who have risked their lives in the work of humanity and security in Afghanistan for several years?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-116	Madam President, I would like Unlike Lars Adaktusson, I will not publicly criticise my fellow party members in any way. I only note that the Social Democracy, as we are now, is in complete agreement that the Swedish soldiers, the civilian staff and those who work in an NGO and so on have done a fantastic job. We fully support them. We do not believe that it would have been possible to implement development cooperation in Afghanistan for 20 years without the military forces, so they have our full support.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. One conclusion of this, Ann Linde, will well then be that we must help to highlight the major efforts that the Swedish Armed Forces have made in Afghanistan. I guess that's the best line on the foreign minister's party mates play. Both seconded and local staff have made outstanding efforts. Not least for that reason, Ann Linde, it is sad that the government has not been able to give all interpreters a sanctuary. The fact that 1 100 people could be evacuated is of course good news, and everyone involved in that work deserves respect. But, Ann Linde, that interpreters and defence workers were not evacuated in time, long before the military personnel had left the country, is a responsibility that falls heavily on the government.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-119	Madam President, I would like I can only wish that the former government, which existed during the time when the Armed Forces had interpreters and other local staff until 31 December 2014, had completed the entire work. The Swedish Armed Forces did a fantastic job of getting some interpreters and others here in different ways. Then when we saw that we would be in a new situation, it was problematic to find everyone who had worked. Totally with families it was about several thousand and about getting them screened and then getting them home. They didn't all pass security last time. We had more on the way than those who managed to get out, but the Taliban stopped them. It was not the Swedish government that stopped them. I hope that we will be able to continue the work of identifying and screening those who have been local employees until 31 December 2014 and their families and getting them out.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-122	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear that the basic problem is that Sweden really lacks a national concept to rescue people who are sent out in crisis, people at embassies, aid workers and citizens abroad. It is a shortcoming that has been pointed out earlier in investigations and that has been raised by the Committee on Defence, but it does not seem that this has been picked up by the Foreign Minister. I have two questions, Madam President. One question is: why did the Foreign Minister's plan not work to rescue local workers? The second question is: Is it the Foreign Minister's view that it was the political leadership or individual initiatives of non-political officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that led to the return of those who were wanted?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-124	Madam President, I would like Of course, it was an extremely clear political signal that we should take home all the local employees and their families and all the guards and their families and, of course, follow our plans for the sent ones, who worked to the letter even though it was a day's notice. Of course, there was a very clear political leadership throughout the evacuation. The fact that the plans for the local employees did not work was due to the fact that the planes that we had rented and that were supposed to go two times that week were cancelled because it was not possible to fly from Kabul airport at that time. This was then changed, and we got the Hercule plan and the plans of other countries and were able to bring home all the local employees with families and all the guards with families.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-126	Madam President, I would like I think that Sweden, the Swedish population and those who are employees in Swedish authorities understood the signal very clearly from the government – that they were not very interested in getting the interpreters home. It was the political signal that came out of the government – that they attacked the initiatives that came from the Swedish parliament to get the interpreters home. That was the political signal. I do not think it is very worthy of taking credit for things that individual Foreign Office officials have initiated or for solutions that individual Foreign Office officials on the ground have come up with and that have made it work despite the fact that the plans they had initially failed or, in some cases, the plans have failed. It is not very worthy to call it a plan that you have an idea of bringing people home in civil aircraft when this plane did not work. I believe that political leadership must take responsibility.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-128	Madam President, I would like People within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Affairs, the Embassy of Kabul, the Swedish Armed Forces, the security company Vesper, the Migration Agency, Sida, Säpo, the special units and the police succeeded in a joint operation, including with strong support and leadership from the political level, evacuate over 1,100 people and bring home all local employees and their families and all guards and their families. But we were not able to achieve our ambitions fully and get out interpreters and other local employees as well as human rights activists and feminists. That work continues, but the evacuation work has been fantastic. Everyone who has been involved in this has our warm and strong thanks.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-129	Madam President, I would like September 11, 2001 became a crucial watershed. That is what then led to the broad international coalition against terrorism to strike Al-Qaida in Afghanistan. It has also led to 20 years in Afghanistan in the spotlight for all international attention. Madam President, I would like I share the view expressed by several colleagues, including the Foreign Minister, that the time in Afghanistan has been important and valuable. Therefore, everyone who has participated in this in different ways for 20 years should have a warm and great thank you. It is the Swedish Afghanistan Committee that has organised in Afghanistan, but it is also the Swedish Armed Forces, at the price that some of them have not come home alive, at the price that some of them have not come home all the way. That being said, it is in this one should see the commitment that exists in Sweden to the interpreters. There is a simple basic principle in the heart of many Swedes: that those who have helped Sweden will also help. That's why there's such a heavy shadow over the government because so far there's only two. That is regrettable. That is why, Madam President, I think it is important to see and start to analyse how the Kabul Government fell so quickly, like a house of cards. Then, Madam President, my simple conclusion is that one cannot ignore the widespread corruption that has been rampant out of Afghanistan for so many years. Then we must also look at ourselves a little self-critically and ask what significance the foreign presence has had. It is also in the light of the wishes expressed for a broad evaluation. Let us evaluate these 20 years in Afghanistan!
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-133	Madam President, I would like Hunger is raging in Afghanistan in the tracks of drought and pandemic. Adding to the Taliban's takeover of power, anyone understands that the situation of an Afghan citizen is horrifiable. Many are the human rights activists and journalists who now fear for their lives. It also includes interpreters, whom Hans Wallmark has focused a lot on. You in the Moderates have said that you want the interpreters home via the quota refugee system. But would you also like more – human rights defenders, women's rights activists and journalists – to come to Sweden via the quota refugee system? In a new UNDP report, 97% of Afghanistan's 36 million people risk living below the poverty line next year if nothing is done. There is an increasing risk of complete social collapse, especially if the banking system does not reopen. At the same time, there is a lack of resources for aid, and the UN has received only 40% of the funding. At this point, the Moderates have wanted to reduce aid.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-137	Madam President, I would like Now Håkan Svenneling obviously has not really listened to what the Moderates have said. What the government is now doing is exactly in line with what we ourselves have talked about, namely moving from that type of development aid to emergency and humanitarian aid. It is just as Håkan Svenneling says that Afghanistan is at risk of going towards a major humanitarian disaster, and then we are not talking about any 5 000 or 10 000 who are on the run, but we are talking about the risk of millions being drawn towards Iran, Pakistan and north towards Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. That is why it is important to have humanitarian aid, emergency aid, which we, on the moderate side, have given priority to. When it comes to the flows of refugees themselves, it is also important to realise that Sweden has taken an enormous responsibility and is likely to also take a great responsibility. But what Sweden has done is something that the Left Party usually ignores, not least in the light of what happened in 2015.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-140	Madam President, I would like It is fundamentally good that the Moderates see that Afghanistan needs aid. The U.S. military effort was often marked by spending one year at a time, and the Moderates' development policy has a little the same problem. It wants to provide aid and humanitarian aid here and now, but it has no long-term thought of where to go. Here, in fact, we need to demonstrate and support another society that will be free in the future. No one has said it will be easy, but we must dare to get there. Then you must also dare to bet on other things than just food bags just for the day. Hans Wallmark brings out the interpreters. He thinks they've done a great job. But I think we should also remember all women's rights activists, human rights fighters and journalists who have been present in Afghanistan. If we do not have the same fervor in our commitment to them as in what Hans Wallmark has for the interpreters, I think we are betraying the Afghan people. That is why I believe that Sweden can be a haven for all those who are fighting for another Afghanistan. The rule of the Taliban will not last forever, and then there must be a new generation that can take Afghanistan further one day.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-143	Madam President, I would like Once again, I shall say that Håkan Svenneling has not fully understood what we have said in the field of aid policy. We have advocated four-year aid frameworks. It is far beyond plans for today alone and annual ones. Madam President, I would like In Swedish migration policy, there is a very big difference between the Left Party and the Moderates. We can both admit that. The Moderates are a party that says that a no is a no and a yes is a yes, and we want to transform Swedish migration policy in a completely different way. Whether the Left Party is closer to the Red-Green Government or not is a little unclear, for the Red-Green Government will probably want to keep you at a distance not to confirm that they may fundamentally share your view on this. I think it is very important that we in the Swedish Parliament now realise that the coming time in Afghanistan will be very crucial. There are 36 to 38 million people in a country of chaos, disintegration and possibly even starvation given the humanitarian situation. Sweden as a country must also relate to this, and we must understand how to deal with it.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-146	Madam President, I would like This is a debate that could last for hours precisely because there are so very many different aspects to raise. One of the most important is how the government handled the evacuation of embassy staff and other employees. The government's slow and most remarkable actions were under all criticism. The necessary decisions were delayed until it could be too late, which could have devastating consequences for individuals. For those who followed the government's statements in the media, it was also quite obvious that the government had no control. It should be a matter of course that we help interpreters and local employees who have served Sweden, but not. First, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson argued that it would be unconstitutional to bring the interpreters home. The Minister felt that this would have been an impossible task, since it might have involved up to 10 000 people. That was not true, and it seemed that little effort had been put into even locating the interpreters. Just days later, everything changed. The relevant authorities, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Migration Agency, were apparently tasked with locating the interpreters, they said, and the minister claimed that the work was in full swing. The Swedish Armed Forces, however, wondered what the minister was talking about, for such a government mission had not been given at all. Madam President, I would like This is a little messy, to put it mildly, but it's getting worse. Suddenly, everyone with a Swedish connection would be brought to Sweden, certainly only after the Taliban had taken the capital. The so-called Swedish list just grew and grew. There seemed to be no limit at all. From perhaps 50 interpreters and an equal number of local employees with families, the crowd grew to over 1,000 people – exiled and potential terrorists, you name it. It is remarkable, to say the least, that the Swedish Government was not better at early implementation and planning of the evacuation or had any significant security control. Madam President, I would like There is a word for this: shame.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-152	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament decided on the Swedish Afghanistan operation for this year at the end of 2020. Then the Swedish Democrats chose to reserve themselves. The proposal for our continued presence in Afghanistan was rejected. I have read the reservation and the specific opinions, Madam President, but I have not read that the Swedish Democrats had a requirement to bring home interpreters or other local staff. I would therefore like to hear how the Swedish Democrats had prepared for this in connection with the fact that they wanted us to phase out the operation at that time. Then, Madam President, I wonder whether the Swedish Democrats see a need for continued aid to Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-155	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last one. Of course, we see a need for continued aid to Afghanistan, but it should be strictly humanitarian and go to food and medicines. Just as the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself said, a crown should not go to the Taliban. It is extremely important that we have good transparency as to where aid goes and that we have control over the fact that it actually goes to what it should go to. When it comes to local employees and interpreters, we have always said that if people have served Sweden, we also have a duty to help them. Whether that means taking them to Sweden or not is a completely different matter. But this is something that we have been saying all along, because it is a matter of fundamental importance. It goes without saying that we should help those who serve, for example, Swedish troops and risk their lives.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-157	Madam President, I would like It would have been exciting to be able to read that particular opinion because the Swedish Democrats – together with the Left Party, I should say – were the first to think that we should end all military efforts in Afghanistan. But I couldn't read it from what I've been reading. I'm moving on to aid. Do I understand correctly, Madam President, that Markus Wiechel believes that it should only be humanitarian aid and that it should go to medicine and food? Does this mean that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee's work will move to the distribution of food and medicine, or is it a cross-stop for the Swedish Afghanistan Committee that the Swedish Democrats want to see?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-159	Madam President, I would like First of all, it's about transparency. We must ensure that the money we spend on aid goes to what they are supposed to go to. We have seen reports that clearly show that Swedish aid has not done so so far. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee has done a great deal of good in Afghanistan. But we have to evaluate all the time. In view of the current situation, we must ensure that aid goes first to food and medicines. Then it is easiest to know that it goes to what it is supposed to go to, and it becomes more difficult for the Taliban, for example, to use those resources for something other than what they are supposed to be used for. Unfortunately, I have forgotten Kerstin Lundgren's first question. But I suspect it was again about the interpreters. In fact, as Kerstin Lundgren mentioned, we have been critical of the effort precisely because we have not seen a definitive strategy for what it will lead to. It's basically a problem.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-162	Madam President, I would like For over 60 years, the Swedish Armed Forces have had an unbroken tradition of troop operations abroad. In total, there are 120 missions in some sixty countries. The stakes have been of great importance. On the Swedish Armed Forces' website, you can read that the foreign efforts are reducing the risk of trouble spots spreading, which not only benefits the area in question, but also strengthens Sweden's security. Nevertheless, the Swedish Democrats have opposed the important effort in Afghanistan. For this reason, I would like to ask Markus Wiechel: Is the Swedish Armed Forces wrong when it is stated that Sweden's security is strengthened through foreign missions?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-164	Madam President, I would like I would like to clarify one thing: the Swedish Democrats are not in principle opposed to international efforts. We believe that there may be great value in participating in several initiatives and for several reasons, not just to strengthen and secure the area where you serve. When it comes to Afghanistan, there was really no reasonable goal with the intervention itself. Just as I mentioned in some speech, it was more about pleasing the United States than about serving the Afghan people and having some definitive strategy for what the effort would end in. We have seen that, too, not least now. That is what we are criticising, not least with regard to this effort.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-166	Madam President, I would like I am aware of the position that Markus Wiechel recalls. But when it comes to the Afghanistan force, one argument on the part of the Swedish Democrats has been that it takes resources from the Swedish defence. The Swedish contribution to the RSM consisted of 15 people, staff in Mazar-e Sharif. The contribution to the ISAF force was considerably greater, but it was seven years ago. Of course, the Swedish Armed Forces have the opportunity to contribute at those levels without the ability at home going down, especially considering what it gives back in the long term in the form of better and more knowledgeable managers, experience of sharp situations and all this. You are ignoring this in the Swedish Democrats. Your national perspective counteracts what the Armed Forces work with and see as important, not least when it comes to the operation in Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-168	Madam President, I would like Once again, we are not critical of all international efforts. We might not have been critical of the efforts in Afghanistan if it had worked differently. When it comes to resources, it has cost huge resources. In fact, we don't even know the exact amount of that bet. It's also really hard to find out, no matter how hard you try. That is another issue that might need to be referred back to. What has it really cost us? As I said, it is basically a question of having a strategy, a goal, for the effort. You haven't.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-171	Madam President, I would like There has been quite a lot of talk about dignity in the debate so far. Our 20-year military operation in Afghanistan could have ended in a more dignified way. On this I think we should all be able to agree. We should also be able to agree that responsibility is shared by many, including in this Chamber. But ultimately, of course, the government is responsible. Madam President, I would like Sweden will contribute to peace, security and the development of people's life chances and rights in the world. We will try to trade hopelessness for hope through trade, exchange of experiences, diplomacy and aid, but also through military action. We build security together with others. The understanding that what happens far away affects us is obvious. We should be long-term but strategic in our work. We are not abandoning the people of Afghanistan, but after the takeover of the Taliban regime, our strategy must be clearly changed. We shall not give legitimacy to or assist a oppressive and excluding Taliban regime. We will provide humanitarian support and support to the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. But support for development requires a common understanding with the regime if it is to be done in the long term. It is about the UN, it is about Sida and it is about the EU. The former government of Afghanistan invited us. The current regime can do the same with regard to aid. But there we must have a clear answer. Now an extreme Taliban regime is running again. We will not be its obedient tools. That requires clarity, Madam President.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-176	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren says that the strategy needs to be changed and then raises a number of incredibly important and difficult issues. But it does not come up very concretely about what the Center Party wants here and now. One thing I am thinking about is all those who are here in Sweden and have received an expulsion decision to Afghanistan and are now subject to the Migration Board's decision ban. They don't know if they're going to be deported to Taliban Afghanistan or not. I wonder how the Center Party sees those people still in an asylum search process after six years and have not been told. If the strategy is to be changed, I also wonder how Kerstin Lundgren views possible flows of refugees from Afghanistan, but above all those who have fought for a freer Afghanistan and who now need to be saved from it and may be able to make their way to neighbouring countries. Should we accept them in Sweden?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-179	Madam President, I would like Only last summer, new legislation on migration was adopted. It should, of course, apply. There is also a small, small possibility for reconsideration. Madam President, I would like We have seen from our side the importance of changing the development policy strategy adopted by Sweden in April. It was adopted on the basis of the conditions at the time. It is not the reality that we are now facing, but it requires a retrial and that we take a move to ensure that we do not become an obedient tool in the hands of the Taliban regime. I hope that Håkan Svenneling is also clear in that part and want to see a change in the development policy strategy.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-181	Madam President, I would like I agree with Kerstin Lundgren. Of course, the decisions taken in April need to be reconsidered. The conditions are completely new. There is a Taliban government in place that in many ways is a cruel regime. At the same time, we must be long-term in our aid. The most dangerous thing we can do here and now is to betray the Afghan people by cutting back on aid from the levels we are at today. Here it is more about what Lundgren is into, that is to reconsider and find new ways forward. In order to do so, you need to give notice to those Afghans in Sweden who are wondering if they are going to be expelled to the Taliban regime. You also need to give answers to all those people who are trying to get away from the Taliban and who wonder if there are any legal and safe ways to take them to freedom and get a sanctuary in Sweden. There I would like our message from the Swedish Parliament to be clearer: If you have been a human rights defender or a women's rights lawyer and have stood up for human rights, there should be a sanctuary for you somewhere on earth that is not Afghanistan. Sweden could be such a country.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-184	Madam President, I would like I share the position of the Foreign Minister that the international development work would not have been possible without our soldiers and our presence on the ground. This is something that needs to be understood when reviewing the aid policy strategy. The Left Party and Håkan Svenneling have opposed military presence and apparently think that it would have been possible to make the same aid effort without it. We don't share that view. Migration legislation is decided in this House, but it is not dealt with by a debate in our seats. There is a special regime that will apply to this and which we have decided on. It applies, of course, today, and it applies to Afghans and to others. We do not see any need for new legislation as a result, Madam President.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-187	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday I was in the city park in Arvika. Around Sweden there have been many demonstrations for the people of Afghanistan. They have had it when they demand that the Swedish government act both here in Sweden and in Afghanistan. Here in Sweden there are about seven and a half thousand people waiting to hear about staying here and now because Afghanistan will not be safe for a long time to come. The Finnish Immigration Service's decision to stop was initially reasonable, but now the Finnish Immigration Service had to start trading. People shouldn't have to live in limbo. Security is what will lead to integration. In Afghanistan, we need to help those most vulnerable by providing them with protection via the quota refugee system. Through the UN and our embassies, we can get human rights defenders, women's rights activists, journalists and interpreters whose lives are now in great danger. That is why we need to increase the number of quota refugees from 5 000 places to 10 000 places. Only in this way can we protect Afghanistan's hope for the future from today's Taliban regime until the day it falls. For 15 years, the Left Party has opposed Sweden's military adventures in Afghanistan. The fact that we have now been right in much of our criticism is nothing that pleases me. It pains to see the suffering of the Afghan people when the democratic space shrinks to microscopically and when violence and the killing of dissidents begins. The basic problem with the imperialist entry of the United States into Afghanistan has always been that it puts its own security interests before the security of the Afghan people. It becomes clear from the agreement signed by the United States with the Taliban. After that, Washington forced Kabul to release dangerous Taliban from prisons. There are Taliban now taking their place in the leadership. The question is whether the world after 20 years has really become so much safer. Sweden must now learn lessons about the cost of trusting the United States and NATO blindly. In recent years, it has led to a number of miscalculations, and it has damaged our international reputation. Therefore, it would be most appropriate to evaluate and write a White Paper on the 20 years in Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-193	Madam President, I would like One minute's replica time is not quite enough to explain to Håkan Svenneling that he glides around a little when he judges of 20 years of presence in Afghanistan and does not see how it has contributed to people, women, children and young people having been able to breathe the breath of life. However, I have two questions for Håkan Svenneling, Madam President. One is about corruption. We can agree that a partial explanation of the rapid fall of the Kabul Government has been the widespread corruption in the country and therefore also the risk that both the foreign presence and aid may be components of this. Does Håkan Svenneling share that picture? And then, Madam President, despite the advice since 2006, there are now 400 to 600 people in Afghanistan on the Swedish list. It is an indication that some from Sweden have understood Afghanistan as quite safe, is it not?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-197	Madam President, I would like What Moderates and other bourgeois politicians have underestimated for many years is the importance of peace in a country. Many Afghans have experienced 20 years of American invasion. Before that, there was a civil war, and before that it was 10 years of Soviet invasion. We can talk about almost 40 years of war in a country. I think that many people then wonder if they can not just get a situation when there is peace in the place where they live. Corruption is a great scourge. Transparency International ranks Afghanistan as one of the world's most corrupt countries. It is a problem that aid has been given that has just contributed to corruption in various ways. The reviews indicate that it is not Swedish aid but rather that it is the USAID that is behind many of the semi-corrupt projects that have existed. It is the confusion between the military and the civilian that is one of the shortcomings. There has been an over-reliance on the military operation, and that is why civilians have had to stand back many times. I believe that many of those who have come down have had a dying relative whom they wanted to have one last chance to visit. They have misjudged the security situation in Afghanistan. It's still an insecure country.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-201	Madam President, I would like It is honourable that we are a number of parties here in the Swedish Parliament that are behind the idea of a broad evaluation. The kind of components that are responsible for corruption really need to be examined. It would be of interest both to what has been and what is to come. As regards the situation in Afghanistan today, there are great similarities between Håkan Svenneling's and my assessment, Madam President. However, as I said in the previous change of line that we had, there is a great abyss in the difference of opinion between us in terms of Swedish migration policy. The left has always represented the line that Sweden must bring more people here and that more people should be able to come here, while we have been somewhat more critical, if you put it that way. It is possible that there are those who have had relatives there with problems. However, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said is piant, that is to say that there are about 600 on the so-called Swedish list who have voluntarily chosen to be in Afghanistan, despite an active disadvantage since 2006.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-204	Madam President, I would like The major problem has been the security assessment of the situation in Afghanistan. The situation in Kabul and Afghanistan has been separated. It is this assessment that has led many people to be expelled from Sweden to Kabul, even though they have never even been in this big city. Much of the misjudgement that we have seen here at the end is also due to this. It was believed that Kabul would last much longer, that it would be safer to evacuate and that it would be less chaotic. That's where the problem is. For a long time, signals have been sent that there are safe zones in Afghanistan. Instead, we should now see that Afghanistan will not be safe for a long time to come. The people who are still here in Sweden have made it here, and many came six years ago. They have still not been told whether they can stay here, although it would be much safer for them if they were allowed to stay here than if they were expelled to Taliban Afghanistan. People should follow the decisions they make, but we should also give them decisions that can be lived by.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-207	Madam President, I would like Even when I read the Left Party's reservation from 2020 on the Afghanistan operation, it is not clear that there is a need for changes in local staff, that they should be taken home and offered a sanctuary and to evacuate personnel who have previously been part of the Swedish operation. I am therefore a little curious as to why it is that we did not see this when, according to the Left Party, we should still leave the country. Håkan Svenneling highlights the need for a White Paper, and this has been in the past. However, I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling whether he does not see the need for a broader parliamentary review and an evaluation of the entire effort made. I think it would be extremely valuable for future positions in this House.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-209	Madam President, I would like Let us remind ourselves that we had a bourgeois government in Sweden in 2014 when the ISAF operation ended and the interpreters who had then been directly employed by Sweden were partly evacuated. The Left Party then pushed towards Tobias Billström, who was the Minister for Migration, for more interpreters to return. When you hear that several of them did not pass the security clearance to come to Sweden, you can wonder how seventeen of them could then from the beginning be interpreters and work for Sweden. What happened in 2014 is strange to me, and perhaps it is something that a White Paper would evaluate. Kerstin Lundgren's proposal for a parliamentary review is interesting and raises some thoughts in my head. I am concerned that this time too we will have an evaluation that is not so good and well written, just as with Tingsgård. The risk of a parliamentary review is that politicians want to polish their own legacy and therefore do not address difficult issues. I'm a little worried about that. But we're going to evaluate.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-211	Madam President, I would like I think it is extremely important that the parliamentary dimension is not the only one. There should be other evaluations. But I think that we need to go into depth and analyse and review the various components of our efforts over 20 years. Tone Tingsgård's investigation is, for our part, not enough for the first part. There, I hope, we can reach a consensus. Madam President, I would like Is it possible that Håkan Svenneling and the Left take the view that it would have been better for democratic development, for women and girls and for equality if the Taliban had taken over 15 years ago? Is the picture that 15 more years of Taliban rule would have made a difference to the Afghan people? Or had there been more people on the run?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-213	Madam President, I would like However, me and Kerstin Lundgren do in part the same analysis of what history looks like and what now needs to be done in terms of evaluation. I think it is important to remember that for 20 years this House has decided to send military personnel. This House also has a great responsibility for what it has decided on and in what way and on what basis. It is always difficult to analyse what had happened about which political party had passed its proposal. But I believe that the civilian component of the construction of Afghanistan has been too small. There has been too much focus on military, too much focus on defeating the Taliban as a movement. I think we could have built democracy from below. Instead, it has been a top – bottom-up perspective, as they say. It has been important to get elected leaders to the top, but these have since been largely corrupt and favored themselves in front of the Afghan people. It never led to a new burgeoning democracy in Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-215	Madam President, I would like In the debate we have heard that the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the operation in Afghanistan. Over the years, the Left Party has also joined, albeit for other reasons. The Left obviously believes that without defence forces it is possible to rebuild a country characterised by violence and chaos for decades. Aid instead of military intervention has been a recurring theme. At the same time, in many cases the former presupposes the latter. Without military presence, important parts of the aid would not have worked. Hardly vulnerable people had not been helped. Why, Håkan Svenneling, does the Left Party ignore this?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-216	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by correcting Lars Adaktusson. The Left Party was ahead of the Swedish Democrats in demanding that the Afghanistan operation be dismantled. We were in favour of the initial effort, but we were in Parliament earlier than the Swedish Democrats and have thereby been against the military effort for longer. One of the reasons has just been the great confusion between the civilian and the military component in Afghanistan. There has been an overconfidence in military solutions. There has been talk of defeating the Taliban militarily. When it didn't work with troops, the military was replaced and drones instead, which led to an incredible number of killed civilians on the ground in Afghanistan. I do not think that the aid in all its parts is so tied up to the military presence that Lars Adaktusson wants to give the impression of. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee has been in Afghanistan since the Soviet invasion in 1979. They were there during the horror years before the Taliban took power, and they have been there all along the time when the United States had its military in the country. It is therefore possible to carry out aid in any case.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-219	Madam President, I would like It is possible to bring assistance anyway, says Håkan Svenneling. But the fact is, it's like this. Much of the aid has depended on the existence of a secure environment in terms of security, so that the work could work. It ignores the Left Party completely. The Left Party has also wanted to end the multinational efforts in Afghanistan. We have heard it in this debate. These efforts have now been completed. The UN Secretary-General warned on Friday about the economic collapse in Afghanistan as a direct consequence of this – millions and millions of people are in danger of dying of hunger in the country. I don't think this is what the Left Party wanted to see. But it was, Håkan Svenneling, that was the result when your party's politics met reality.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-221	Madam President, I would like I think Lars Adaktusson confuses American military presence with peace. Peace is exactly what has not existed in Afghanistan in recent years. More civilians have been killed by foreign troops than by the Taliban. A different approach could have been adopted in the early 2000s. One could have said to the Taliban: Let us make peace and build democracy from the bottom of Afghanistan! You have a presence here. You can be in the conversation. Instead they said: We will defeat you militarily! Then, when you failed to do so, you got out of there as soon as possible. If this had been done, I think it would have been possible to create a long-term peace that would have benefited the Afghan people. This would have enabled aid efforts to be made to build the country further ahead. Instead, we have seen short-sightedness and year-by-year strategies. There have been no conditions for building Afghanistan strongly. I think we should care more about the Afghan people, and we can do so even when the Taliban are in power.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-224	Madam President, I would like I have a couple of questions for Left Party and Håkan Svenneling. One is that Håkan Svenneling believes that we should have made peace with the Taliban and built democracy from the bottom up. Then I wonder what prospect Håkan Svenneling sees that the Taliban will build democracy from the bottom now that they have taken power. I do not see any such prospects for myself, because they are terrorists and Islamic extremists. The second issue is the issue of imperialism. I wonder how Håkan Svenneling really sees this. Is it always to be seen as imperialism when one country chooses to participate in another country at that country's invitation? Or is it just about Håkan Svenneling and Left Party looking red because it has to do with the USA?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-227	Madam President, I would like I think I share Joar Forssell's vision. There is no prospect of the Taliban building a democracy. We will see an authoritarian religious dictatorship, similar to that of Iran for a long time. There are various Islamic theories, but basically I think what we are going to see in Afghanistan will be the same as what is in Saudi Arabia and Iran. On the issue of imperialism: At the moment, there are many interesting reports and documentaries on 11 September. There are many of us who are horrified by the September 11 acts and remember where we stood on that day when over 3,000 Americans lost their lives. But I think there are also many of us who are shocked by George W. Bush's response to the September 11 attack. The most important goal for him was revenge, not getting hold of the terrorists and stopping terrorism. I think we could have had a completely different response to the attack on 11 September, which had not claimed the lives of more than millions of people around the world in Afghanistan, in Iraq and in many other places in the war on terrorism.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-230	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there is much to be criticised for by George W. Bush. There is also much to be criticised in what has been the war on terrorism. Much can be criticised in what has been the effort in Afghanistan. That is why I also share the view that there is a need for a broad analysis of the entire Swedish presence. However, I wonder whether it might indeed be the case that the Left Party believes that there have been imperialist intentions from the Swedish operation in Afghanistan. It's very strange. I have met many veterans and decision-makers who have been involved in deciding on the efforts, and there have never been any imperialist intentions expressed. It has been said that one wants to ensure that girls' schools are left behind. It has been expressed that it wants to ensure that aid can arrive and reach those that it needs to reach. It has been expressed that we want to create security and stability and, in the long term, build peace and democracy from below, but never imperialist intentions.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-233	Madam President, I would like I am part of a movement that has demonstrated against when the United States has wanted to go to war around the world. Joar Forssell belongs to a movement that has wanted to send Swedish JAS planes a bit here and was in the world. But I do not believe fundamentally that there is anything imperialist in what Sweden has wanted to achieve. I never said that. I say that it is based on an imperialist thought figure that the United States has made its decisions from outside. One can see that the Swedish motifs have been quite clear. It has been about approaching the United States and securing the transatlantic link, which is the popular political order, and it has been a rapprochement with NATO. You've danced after the U.S. pipe, and many times you've seen the consequences of dancing after the U.S. pipe. I think we could have done a lot differently. That is why I hope that we can get a solid and good evaluation that can create political debate and discussion about what we are going to do abroad. I still believe that Swedish military will be in many places in the world. But I think it's supposed to be under the UN mandate and not under the U.S. flag.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-236	Madam President, I would like When black headlines alert about what is called the failure in Afghanistan, there is reason to reflect. Every lost human being is a profound tragedy. The amounts invested in Afghanistan are enormous. But has it been for nothing? For two decades, millions of women have experienced what equality can mean. Millions of girls have been able to go to school and dream about work and the future. It's not enough, but it's permanent values. Madam President, I would like The fact that the US military withdrawal was a historic failure does not mean that international efforts have been in vain. Through the military presence, relative security has been maintained, terrorism has been combated and assistance efforts have been carried out. The men and women in uniform have made a difference. On behalf of my party, I would like to express my warm thanks to all the staff of the Swedish Armed Forces who have served in Afghanistan. Now that activity will be evaluated, hopefully broad and detailed and preferably in a parliamentary investigation. Consequences should follow from what has not worked. Let me be clear. One conclusion is already clear. Stopping international efforts is not the way forward. Sweden will continue to be involved in the defence of democracy and freedom.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-241	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson attracted some attention in the media when he went to clinch with Christian Democrats' spokesperson Hans Eklind that the government should invite to talks about amnesty. I think it was good of you, Adaktusson, but your colleague Eklind does not seem to have any Christian humanism. When you hear two messages like this from the Christian Democrats, you need to ask the question: What do the Christian Democrats really want? Another creative proposal from the Christian Democrats has been that aid has been used to rent prison places abroad. In the article you wrote, you actually used Afghanistan as an example. Then one wonders: Is it still up to the Christian Democrats?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-243	Madam President, I would like The headlines in the newspapers when it comes to different opinions in a party or what seems to be it often goes booming. Political opponents often find it very interesting when there appear to be different opinions in different parties. I understand that. I think so, too, from time to time. In this case, I was asked what developments in Afghanistan mean for the situation we have both in terms of the risk of a flow of refugees from Afghanistan and in relation to the 7 000 that exist in Sweden. My answer was that I think we can't close any doors. I think we should take responsibility. It's about people. I think, as I said in the interview, that the government should take an initiative for a discussion on these issues given the current situation.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-246	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer, Lars Adaktusson! I think it is a good and clear clarification. That's a lot of what you're saying that I agree with. It is precisely about the need to think. We are talking about the Taliban taking over of power completely changing the situation in Afghanistan. We need to think about aid, military action in the future and so on. I mean that you are very right in your reasoning based on the fact that we also need to think about how we think in Sweden. Here, just as Lars Adaktusson is on the subject, the government needs to invite for talks. It is only through talks between political parties and politicians that we can think about which path to take. So far, the door has been too closed on these issues. I sincerely hope that we can see an opening here in the autumn. I would be happy to take the arm hook, Lars Adaktusson, if this is the line that the Christian Democrats will hold. Then there are opportunities to do things together. If, on the other hand, aid is being used to open prison places abroad, the answer is no from the Left Party.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-250	Madam President, I would like It is the case, not least in the field of foreign policy, that conditions change, and often things go quite quickly. That is what we have seen now in Afghanistan. The Taliban's takeover of power went faster than anyone might have thought. Then we need to keep up with the policy and that we are open to correcting what needs to be changed. It is also important that we are open to the fact that what has happened puts things in a different perspective. That is the case here. Then it is extremely important to have a dialogue about it, to talk about it and to open a discussion about the new situation that has arisen. This is a new situation. The Finnish Immigration Service introduced enforcement barriers in early August. This means that those who exist in Sweden cannot be sent back. Then we have to deal with it. We must follow this. Here we obviously agree that the government should invite talks.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-253	Madam President, I would like I would especially like to thank you for letting me take a line, even though I may have been a few seconds late to press the button. I have a question for Lars Adaktusson from the Christian Democrats about aid. The Liberals and Christian Democrats are the two bourgeois parties that have stood up most and most clearly for generous and broad Swedish aid. We represent both parties that have stood up for the 1% target for many years, even when it has been stingy in the aid debate. Afghanistan is now used as a bat in the development debate by those who always want to lower aid, who always want Sweden to be less generous and who always want us to take less responsibility in the world through stable aid. Then my question to Lars Adaktusson is: Can you trust that the Christian Democrats in the budget work and in future possible government constellations will stand up for the 1% target and for stable Swedish aid?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-257	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that aid is one of the core issues of the Christian Democrats, and it has always been so. The Christian Democrats as a party were created out of responsibility for the people in the poor part of the world who are worse off than we are. This is in the DNA of the Christian Democrats, and I cannot imagine that the Christian Democrats would end up in a situation where we abandon the 1% target. It's a central question. It is for a number of reasons, not least because it is a moral and ethical guide in a society how we view those who are worse off. I believe that it is part of the 1% target and aid that we must protect and safeguard.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-259	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for your answer! I really share the view that we people who live in the richer part of the world and we who enjoy a great deal of freedom need to stand up for others. That is why it is so important that we have stable and generous aid from Sweden. I think the 1% target and the Liberals are a matter of course. Madam President, I would like I also share the view that it is basically also Christian values and Christian democratic values to help others and to stand up for others in the world in this way. However, one thing that has led to the attack on aid in the political debate is the desire to broaden it in different ways and to use it for more and more things. The construction of prisons is perhaps one of those things that would risk evading the aid that goes to humanitarian aid, for example, and building democracy and gender equality. I still wonder, Madam President, once again: can we rely on stable aid that goes to the core values of aid?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-262	Madam President, I would like I think I expressed myself very clearly on my view of the 1% target. What is important in this debate is that we have a debate that helps to preserve, and preferably increase, the willingness to provide aid in society and that this policy is anchored among voters and among people in general. For this to happen and to be so, we must have aid that works and that is effective. Here I think there have been major shortcomings in the policy pursued by the current government. One can see between the fingers when it comes to corruption and other difficult factors in a way that naturally affects aid activities. We need to be clearer here. We need to make greater demands for aid to be delivered and for it to be effective and to achieve the results and objectives that are set. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation where the question of aid will increase.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-266	Madam President, I would like We have heard in the debate how the government calls an intention to use civilian planes to fly home local employees for a plan. We have also heard how the government has taken credit for such efforts that have actually been about personal initiative and personal risk-taking and which, despite the great lack of planning, have actually solved much of the problems and many of the tasks that we faced in Afghanistan during the evacuation. Although the plans were more of an intention and although what went well was on the personal initiative of non-political officials, we have heard how the government here says that it was because there were such clear signals from the government. It is also very strange, because the signals that have been most evident from the government are probably Morgan Johansson's scornful, scornful comments about the arrival of 10,000 people if we evacuated the interpreters. Madam President, I would like It has been called from the parliamentary opposition, it has been appealed from the embassy and it has been laid down by the Swedish Armed Forces for things to happen sooner and more forcefully so that we can do what we have a responsibility to do: to get home both local employees and sent out on time. The government has turned and turned around and finally, after all, acted. Then trying to take credit for what has been done by non-political officials and by other people despite a political leadership that has pointed the other way, I would call an audacity. I wish the government had taken on a little more responsibility.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-271	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal of focus in the debate on precisely the evacuation from Afghanistan – a situation that was even shaken by an act of terror involving hundreds of deaths, which the world already seems to have forgotten. There are a lot of simple analyses and findings in recent times that 20 years' efforts are wasted and that the entire effort is unsuccessful. Although there is great disappointment, the important successes that are now being put at risk. I think we should keep our eyes on the target – the people who live in Afghanistan. The last 20 years have meant that hundreds of thousands of children have gone to school, that it is no longer as dangerous to be pregnant and have children and that women's sexual and reproductive health has received Swedish support. It means something in people's close everyday lives. How are we supposed to know what's right to do now? Just as culture is in Swedish authorities, the effort will be evaluated. The Foreign Minister has made that clear in his speeches today, and of course it should be done in the best possible way. For the Green Party, the whole is a key word. It is not just a difficulty for the people of Afghanistan to deal with right now; there are several. These are conflicts, droughts, floods and covids. Complex problems do not have simple solutions. It is required of the outside world that we focus on people's everyday lives in the country and that we build institutions whenever possible. The Covid-19 pandemic needs to be managed, and health care needs to continue to be built up. The people of Afghanistan need to build resilient and secure societies that can withstand violence and terrorism. However, we also need to raise our eyes to see that this drought-stricken with floods will be changed by climate change. We in Sweden will do our part to reduce emissions and provide the support we can to the people of Afghanistan. Now the solidarity of the outside world is being put to the test. We're gonna stand by.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-277	Madam President, I would like This is a debate that engages – hence all the lines! Now Camilla Hansén and the Green Party have the opportunity to release the scarf a little bit. Camilla Hansén mentions that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has talked about evaluation. No one in this House has really understood exactly what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said on this point. I would like to ask a specific question: is the Green Party prepared to open up to a broad evaluation of Afghanistan's 20 years? That is a question to which you can answer yes or no without having to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like Many of us have looked at how corruption has created the major problems in Afghanistan and are likely to be an important part of the explanation that the Kabul government fell in just a few days. Then it is interesting to hear whether Camilla Hansén has thought something about the connection of aid and the foreign presence to the corruption that exists in the country. Then I share the assessment that the Green Party has made now that it is shifting from development aid to humanitarian aid.
i-H9nefvREbHFrYd9La9HxQV	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Hans Wallmark! As I said, the Swedish government culture is that you constantly evaluate what you do. This concerns aid; it applies within the Swedish Armed Forces. Within every little authority you can find, you work that way. It needs to be done with this effort as well. The effort has been broad. Sweden's contribution has been long and of a different nature. What the government, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is saying today is that this should be evaluated. What this evaluation will look like depends on how you put the question. The government will come back with that.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-284	Madam President, I would like The difference between the Green Party and the Social Democrats on the one hand and the Parliament's other six parties on the other is that we have an idea of how this broad evaluation should take place. I believe that we will be able to continue that discussion until you have come to the same understanding as the rest of us. Then it is interesting, Madam President: the Green Party is responsible for the development policy within the government and has the ministerial post. What has been the reasoning as we move from development aid to emergency and humanitarian aid? There are a few of us who have argued that one should look at those components, but the Green Party usually quite dramatically rejects that kind of idea. Now, however, you are doing this yourselves as an aid policy responsible in the government. There is another thing that I would like the Green Party to develop. The government has said, not a penny for the Taliban! How will you effect that this is really the case?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-287	Madam President, I would like I forgot to answer Hans Wallmark's question about corruption earlier. I would simply like to say that Afghanistan is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. There are great risks of involving aid in these situations. Sida and other aid organisations are working incredibly hard to curb corruption. They're systematically working on it. I do not believe that we can do so that we do not engage with aid in countries where there is corruption. Then we will not be able to support the people who need it. I also believe that in the future we will land in an evaluation that certainly more than the Green Party and the Social Democrats can be satisfied with the design of. As far as the transition from long-term development aid to humanitarian aid is concerned, it depends on the situation on the ground. It is it that must govern how Sweden can contribute and support the Afghan people right now. This does not mean that the Green Party is losing its long-term perspective in aid.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-290	Madam President, I would like Camilla Hansén is not part of the government but represents a government party and is, to say the least, to be regarded as a government basis. Given that the Minister for Foreign Affairs seems to have little self-criticism in this situation, I would just like to ask Camilla Hansén how she feels that the government has managed the evacuation.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-291	Madam President, I would like I noted one thing during the honourable Member's speech, and it was that the government should be ashamed of the fact that this has been so bad. I think shame is one of the worst driving forces there is. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained – which follows the daily work at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which I as a Member of Parliament do not – is how you have worked and adapted to the situations that have arisen. Sweden has also helped to save 1,100 people home to Sweden. Something that surprises me a little is that when the government parties talk about a wide range of people who need support, there are some parties that have focused very much on interpreters. Then I am a little curious about how to look at this with the need for protection for people in such a dangerous country as Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-293	Madam President, I would like We now know that interpreters and those who are included in what has become a rather common concept, namely people who have served for Swedish military forces – it is also about other people – are particularly vulnerable in this situation when they are seen as traitors and direct enemies of the Taliban. That's why they're particularly vulnerable. There is no doubt that I am very critical of how the government has acted, or rather that it has not acted in time. Other countries chose early to have a clear evacuation plan. When some of our neighbours chose to evacuate their embassies, Sweden remained. You didn't do anything. I noted that the honourable Member did not answer the question, so again: is she satisfied with how the Swedish Government handled the evacuation?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-296	Madam President, I would like I know that at any given time the Swedish Government has tried to adapt the measures to the situation. The situation that prevailed was something that surprised the whole world. Based on this, I think that the whole of Sweden's efforts has been impressive. It is a bit strange: While they want Sweden to be in place and work in the most serious crisis, they also seem to think that Sweden should have evacuated embassies and local employees before. These two things don't really make sense. It is incredibly brave to stay and work in a situation like this, and you do so because you can help other people who are in the country. It's truly honorable, I think.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-298	Madam President, I would like I hear Camilla Hansén mention the importance of looking at the whole and the importance of evaluating in the best possible way. Then I think: What does the Green Party see it to be? Could it be a parliamentary dimension in such an evaluation, or is it a bad way of managing the evaluation, according to Camilla Hansén? I know that the government is not finished preparing, but the view of the Green Party and Camilla Hansén would still be interesting to hear. Then, of course, I wonder whether Camilla Hansén also sees a need to make a real deal about aid. Is that the opinion of the Green Party? Or should the April strategy continue? There are clear assignments for both FBA and Sida. Is it valid?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Kerstin Lundgren! Yes, wholeness is important. After all, we are still in a situation that is very serious for people in Afghanistan who, for example, need help from there. I don't think you should rush through deciding how an evaluation should be done. As I understand it, evaluations of the operations carried out within the Swedish Armed Forces and elsewhere are already underway. We have recently received an evaluation of the assistance from the FBA. If a parliamentary committee is to be a tool there, I think we should think about it. It has both advantages and disadvantages. I thought Håkan Svenneling presented them in a commendable way. Based on the situation that we are now seeing in Afghanistan, we need to consider how Swedish aid can do the most good. It's the same thing there: It's still a very uncertain situation, but it may be that you need to look at it differently.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-305	Madam President, I would like The fact that people want to leave Afghanistan is, of course, an effect of the takeover of the Taliban regime, the disappearance of military presence and security, and the maintenance of the Taliban. But we have 20 years of experience of presence where we have also worked with aid, diplomacy, cooperation within civil society and so on. It cannot be enough for EBA to have produced a report on aid. It cannot be enough for the Swedish Armed Forces to do their own review. We must reasonably see a whole and have the various parts tested. It is easy that there will be many drain pipes but few gutterings even in an evaluation. I hope the Green Party sees that. It's not about hurrying. That's 20 years of perspective needed. We're not just talking about the evacuation period, we're talking about the whole thing.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-308	Madam President, I would like I agree with Kerstin Lundgren that it is the whole thing, but right now it is the focus on dealing with the emergency situation. It is good that Kerstin Lundgren also mentions aid, diplomacy and civil society. These are the areas in which we are talking about broad action. Now I did not say that it is enough that EBA has presented an evaluation of aid in Afghanistan. I was just telling you it's here.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-311	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has the Ministry of Development. We have heard a few different headlines and statements from the government in recent weeks. Sometimes it has been in headlines that aid to Afghanistan should be reduced. In Ekot's Saturday interview, the Foreign Minister said it should remain at the same level. I wonder what's going on. Then there is the question of all these people who are now trying to leave Afghanistan. We have received a number, and they have been granted a residence permit under the quota refugee system. I wonder if the Green Party would like to receive more quota refugees to Sweden. Then there are the Afghans who are in Sweden, who are currently not getting any information from the Migration Agency because there is a stop to decisions. I see some of them in the gallery. Both me and Camilla Hansén have met many of them. It is young people who simply want hope for the future in Sweden, but they have been balled around in the Swedish bureaucracy for six years. Can the Green Party give these people some kind of hope for the future? Can we give them a decision that they will have permanent security in Sweden?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for raising these important questions! The Green Party has been part of a government in which we have increased the number of quota refugees. I think that in the future we can look at how that instrument can be used. Svenneling said earlier that it is one of the few safe ways to get to Sweden. Those who have been here for a long time need a reply. It is often young people who have completed studies, high school, and nothing but to support themselves and contribute to society. I say here that people should follow the decisions they make, but we will ensure that human decisions are made. If I am not mistaken, it was Håkan Svenneling who said this earlier. I think it was apt that we have to make human decisions. I will follow what the Migration Agency is working on now and what happens next. It is not possible to have a temporary stop here and believe that there is peace in Afghanistan by Christmas.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-320	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Hansén for her reply. The only thing I was not told about was aid. I'll give you one more minute to answer. It is important that we take new aid decisions based on the current situation. But if we are not to betray the Afghan people, we should also keep aid at the level it has been. This is precisely what Camilla Hansén raised in her speech on drought, hunger and the ongoing pandemic. I welcome the news. I hope that the Green Party and the Left can hook arms when it comes to increasing the number of quota refugees. I also hope that we can arm ourselves in getting a migration debate that is actually about hope for the future and humanity. We cannot send people back to the Taliban's whippings, but rather we must give political information about hope and faith in the future. There, Sweden can be a sanctuary.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-323	Madam President, I would like The needs in Afghanistan are enormous. We know that the needs of the world are enormous. The need for aid is much greater than what we contribute around the world. I do not think we should reduce aid to Afghanistan. The reason why I may sound doubtful is that there must also be reception capacity so that aid lands right and really becomes a support for people in everyday life. At the moment, we are dealing with many urgent issues, but we must not lose the long-term. It is, for example, about actually taking responsibility for climate change and other processes that are going on in the world. There Sweden is a rich country that needs to do its part. Today, the UN is holding a donor conference to raise more money to support the Afghan people. It will certainly be a test of the world's solidarity; if we stand firm and manage to be stubborn and long-term. I do not know if this is enough to give hope and faith in the future. It may be a little too bureaucratic, but I still hope.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-328	Madam President, I would like The review of Afghanistan aid presented by the Expert Group on Aid Analysis the other day is not an uplifting reading. The fact that the result is far from being approved after SEK 14 billion has been invested in Afghanistan is disappointing and also unacceptable. Of course, resources for Sweden's largest aid recipients should not be lost in black holes and corruption, either with Afghan intermediaries or with international partners such as the UN and the World Bank. As has been pointed out here, the Green Party has been responsible for the government's development policy for the last seven years. I would like to ask how the Green Party and thus the government view the consequences of the failure as pointed out by the expert group.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-330	Madam President, I would like In my work as a Member of Parliament and as a representative of the party in Parliament, I can say that there is no kind of idea of looking between your fingers when it comes to corruption. Money allocated to aid should be used for what it is intended for. Sida is therefore doing a great deal of work when it comes to combating corruption, finding when something goes wrong and dealing with such issues.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-331	Madam President, I would like It is true that if aid is to work, it is precisely when a ruthless regime destroys people's lives. We can thus see that relief needs are accelerating. It goes without saying that no money should go to the Taliban, but equally obviously it should be – as has been pointed out by some debaters – that we are not betraying Afghanistan's tormented population. Swedish aid – we agree – will be directed to where it is most useful, to concrete projects through civil society organisations that are in place and to humanitarian efforts for women, internally displaced persons and other severely vulnerable groups. We all realise that this is not easy, but how does the Green Party's strategy for this to succeed?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-334	Madam President, I would like The strategy for this success is a somewhat broad issue. First, there is the question of corruption. What is needed are transparent systems where you can act as whistleblowers when you see that something is happening. The reason for this is that we cannot back off giving support to people in a corrupt country. But we need to know how we can support those people, even though the country is corrupt. These are very difficult and complex questions. It's tricky with complex questions. Sometimes you want to give simple answers, but I did not intend to give any simple answer more than to say that the question is complex and indicate a direction. Money should go to the right things.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-337	Madam President, I would like On the Liberal side, we share much of the view of the Green Party on aid. We are also a party that stands up for the 1% target. We believe that generous and stable aid is needed. We have wanted a little more democracy aid while the Green Party has wanted a little more of other types of aid, but basically we share the view that Sweden as a rich country must also contribute in the world. But one thing where the Liberals have had a clearer position and where the Green Party has been rather ambivalent over time, this is with military action in other countries. There the Green Party has been critical; then they have been in government and bowed to the Social Democrats, and then things have gone a little bit back and forth. My question is really about how the Green Party views the security situation in Afghanistan and security in Afghanistan. The right and the ability to exercise human rights, does the Green Party believe that it will be better now that the Taliban administration has taken over?
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-340	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone believes that the opportunity to access their human rights will be better in Afghanistan at some point in the near future. But what I think the honourable Member is looking for is something like this: are you sure, the Green Party, that it was not good then that it was military action that made it safer for a while? I may be wrong, but I take a chance that it is. Then I would like to say that military action may be needed to provide protection to aid workers and to provide protection in difficult situations. But it will not be military action that brings peace. You can't shoot people to death until there's peace, but something else is needed there – building a society, and it's really hard. It's really hard. It has taken Sweden hundreds of years, and it will take a long time in Afghanistan too. What we're going to figure out is how we can best assist.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-342	Madam President, I would like It usually sounds like this, quite glaring, from parties that are against military action at all – that we just want us to shoot people to death until we get peace, freedom and democracy. No one believes that. Neither I nor representatives of any other party believe that people can be shot to death until democracy is achieved. On the other hand, it may be possible to create stability within which democracy can be built from below by civil society, democratic institutions and so on. There, military action can play a role, so the question remains: Does the Green Party think that it will be easier to build democracy from below the Taliban regime than it will be when the outside world is also present? The Green Party also has a rather ambivalent attitude towards China. It has not been very clear in its China policy compared to many other parties. My second question is how the Green Party views the imperialism that China is now engaged in or intends to conduct in Afghanistan.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-346	Madam President, I would like Yes, but I guess we'll land quite equally when it comes to military operations. They may sometimes be needed to provide protection for democracy building, to provide protection to people and to aid work. But I think it's important what the purpose is. Then that should be the purpose, and the main goal should be to build democracy. If the main goal is revenge and defeating someone, then it is not certain that this goes together. So it depends on the target. Does it get easier or harder? It has been difficult to build democracy in Afghanistan, and it will continue to be difficult. Our task is to continue exploring how we can best assist. As far as China is concerned, it is worrying, I think, what is being seen. We are talking about an Islamic dictatorship in Afghanistan and a communist dictatorship talking to each other about the future. I find that very worrying.
i-e3dc8801dc93811e-349	Madam President, I would like I have told you about how Sweden works to support the Afghan people. It is about channelling humanitarian aid to the needy. In addition to the already decided 188 million, Sida has added another 70 million. The humanitarian situation is critical. It is about continuing to support the Swedish Afghanistan Committee and other actors for development in the country. These are clear messages about the importance of respect for international law, including human rights and humanitarian law, and of allowing women and girls to take a place in society. The Afghan State has an obligation to respect its international obligations regardless of government. It is about providing the best possible conditions for Afghans to live their lives, to prevent the country from becoming a haven for terrorists and to avoid developments that have consequences beyond the country's borders. Sweden's voice for the Afghan people will not be silenced.
