i-5f7134c2e1593af1-7	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about a committee initiative that Sweden should buy vaccines on its own. I can promise that the government, the vaccine coordinator Richard Bergström and the EU and others are, and have been, disappointed and frustrated, above all over the problem of Astra Zeneca's promised deliveries, which have fallen sharply. It has all gone so far that it is likely to be a legal process against the pharmaceutical company via the EU. Vaccination against the sinister covid-19 disease is a light in the tunnel. We have all fought and made great sacrifices during the ongoing pandemic, which has so far lasted more than a year. Especially painful is it for all the loved ones who have lost loved ones. Pandemic control and vaccination are a top priority for the government. Together with the cooperation parties, the government has made historical investments in healthcare, care, business and so on. There has therefore been no shortage of financial resources to combat the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I will now explain in my speech how the government has dealt with the issue of securing vaccines to Sweden against covid-19. Already in May 2020, the government presented its vaccination strategy, which consisted of three parts. Part one was about international cooperation. Part two was about hiring a vaccine coordinator. And part three was about giving the Public Health Agency the task of developing a national vaccination plan. The Government's vaccine coordinator has a large mandate and authority to act independently and explore all possibilities to acquire more vaccines than the EU's joint agreement provides. Several times the vaccine coordinator has clearly stated that he had no restrictions on acting and reconnecting with the government and the Ministry. I have great confidence in our vaccine coordinator. In addition, he has specific expertise in the field of pharmaceuticals. I think his way of working is extremely transparent and informative. Madam President, I would like The Public Health Agency has developed an operational plan and order of priority. Together with the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, they have solved the task well so far. On several occasions the government has signed agreements with SKR that ensure that the vaccine comes out to any citizen who wishes it. Sweden decided early on to participate in EU joint procurements in order to ensure access to vaccines and access to various vaccines, because no one then knew which vaccines would work and be approved by the Agency. Madam President, I would like Government representatives made early contact with vaccine manufacturers. International talks were held. As usual, Sweden took on a major role in securing vaccines in the EU. Within the EU, agreements have been signed with a number of pharmaceutical companies manufacturing vaccines. Currently, four different vaccines are approved and three additional vaccination candidates are being examined. As far as the volume of our agreements is concerned, they are well taken into account. Agreements have been signed for considerably more doses than are needed within the EU. The reasons for this are the desire to secure future potential booster doses, be able to develop new vaccines against possible mutations and be able to share them with other countries in need. Other vaccines, such as the Russian vaccine, are also being examined by us as well as by the European Union. We have been told clearly that no more safe and authorised vaccines are currently available. A whole world is searching with light and lantern for vaccines. All possibilities are exploited. Madam President, I would like More than 2 million people in the Swedish population have received vaccines, at least one dose. After a slow start the vaccination has started properly. We expect half a million doses a week in May, June and July. The vaccine coordinator considers that all 18-year-olds who wish to be vaccinated will have received at least their first dose before the end of June. The Government's previous objective was that everyone should have been offered a dose by 15 August. Madam President, I would like Frankly, Mr Hultberg, what more could have been done? It would be interesting to know which options are missing. I think that the question and the committee initiative are not relevant now. We can now all begin to rejoice that the vaccination is storming and that we are beginning to see the end line of misery. But before that, as the Prime Minister says, we must all hold on and hold on for a while. I support our joint reservation and reject the proposal on the committee initiative, Madam President.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-18	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has hit Sweden, Europe and the world hard and put us in a very worrying position. There is every reason to be critical on a number of points about how the Swedish Government has handled the situation. The Center Party was probably the first party that went out and was critical of how the government had chosen to act. We already did that in the spring of 2020. There is still every reason to be critical. One can criticise, Madam President, that the government has not secured a vaccination capacity in a situation where we risk getting very many people who are to be vaccinated for a short period of time during the summer. Here the government has not produced any plan B at all. One can be critical of how the infection detection has been done in Sweden. The government has not made sure that there are clear guidelines for the country's infectious pathologist in terms of what applies, how quickly it should go, how to work and what methods to use. Here there is every reason to be critical of the government. Today we hear the debate from the European Parliament, which is to discuss vaccination passports or green passports. There is also reason to be critical of how the Swedish Government has acted. It is extremely shaky whether, on 1 June, we will have vaccination passports or green passports in place that meet the requirements that the EU will be making. There are further reasons to be critical of how vaccination has been organised in relation to risk groups. There have been no clear directives in the country as to which groups should be classified as risk groups and not. I met a desperate child cardiologist who said that here it is assumed that I should sit at home in my hospital and decide whether children who are operated on for complicated heart defects should be counted as risk group or not. That is absolutely impossible. These parents have contact with parents in other regions, and other decisions are made in Västerås, Örebro and Uppsala. This puts us in a completely impossible situation, simply because the government has not been clear in its directives. Madam President, I would like In one area, however, there is no need to criticise the government, and that is how it has acted in ensuring the availability of vaccines. It was a perfectly correct position to take a decision not to go forward as a single nation but to do this with the European Union. I can only imagine the situation that, as one of the smaller countries in Europe, we would have to fight the United States and other major European countries to secure the availability of vaccines in Sweden. This was a wise decision, although, of course, it put us together with the other EU countries in a number of troubles. It was also very wise to appoint Richard Bergström as a vaccine coordinator, one of Sweden's foremost experts and former head official at LIF with a strong reputation in the European pharmaceutical industry. It was a wise decision, and it has also given Sweden a unique position in terms of being able to influence this. That is why we are surprised by this committee initiative to criticise the Swedish position, on which the House is to decide later. It makes no sense to me. A number of criticisms are being made. First of all, it criticises the fact that Sweden joined forces together at all through the EU, which is incomprehensible. How one can see that Sweden could have handled this on its own I cannot understand. The second criticism is that Sweden should in any case have tried to obtain additional doses of vaccine in other ways, outside EU cooperation. We called Richard Bergström and also the government to the committee to ask if it is the case that the vaccine coordinator has a full mandate to do everything in his power to see if there are any further doses of vaccine on any shelf that we could get to Sweden. The vaccine coordinator's answer to that was clear: I have a full mandate, perhaps not to do black business and, of course, not to procure vaccines for those who are not approved by the European Medicines Agency. But in addition, the vaccine coordinator has a full mandate. The problem is that the whole world is screaming for vaccines, so there is no further vaccine to procure – if you do not do as Hungary and buy Sputnik from Russia or use Sinovac from China, that is, vaccines that are not approved by the E uropenic Medicines Agency. That was probably the inspiration that led the Moderates to present this committee initiative. When deliveries were made more difficult from Astra Zeneca, which created major problems and is now likely to lead to a legal process, the Austrian Chancellor and the Danish Prime Minister took the initiative to go to Israel to discuss whether they could not buy some of their vaccines from Pfizer. However, they had to go back with their tails between their legs and note that perhaps what could be done is to build a vaccine factory in Denmark together with Israel in the long term. Or perhaps they were inspired by Orbán in Hungary, who took the initiative to vaccinate there with Russian and Chinese vaccines without any problems. We are seeing the consequences today: a very large proportion of the Hungarian population has been vaccinated, but the death toll is not falling at all in the same way as they do in the countries that have used approved vaccines. Perhaps it was that way that some parties saw in front of them. Another example, which is also completely incomprehensible and contained in the committee initiative, is that Sweden should take the initiative to reallocate vaccine doses within the EU so that Sweden could have more. You remember the discussion maybe two months ago. Some countries in Europe– Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary– had not ordered as many doses as they had the right to order. They had mainly ordered Astra Zeneca's vaccine and not so much of the others. It is clear that it became worrying for them when they did not have access to vaccines to vaccinate their population. Then we talked about: Can we not renegotiate so that we – who did not make the wise decision that Sweden and other countries did to order enough for their own population – could get some more of yours? The collective answer from Sweden and the others was: No. Low card's on the table. We're not redistributing. So now there are parties in the Swedish parliament who think that a redistribution should be made, but then on the basis that we as today get as much as all other countries would get even more. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party have come a long way when it comes to criticising the government for all the shortcomings in dealing with the pandemic. But, Madam President, this is a committee initiative that is completely devoid of substance. When the Riksdag supports this, it leads to nothing but an empty club team in the Swedish Parliament that does not affect the current vaccination, which it would have done if we had instead made criticisms of the right points. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-36	Madam President, I would like Sweden has problems with its control system during this pandemic. We have 21 chefs in the soup instead of national governance, and we have to ensure that we get that in the next crisis in Sweden. I'd like to start with that. On April 14, I got my first shot against covid-19, a syringe from Astra Zeneca. A year earlier we sat on the TV sofa in a crowded Stockholm and looked at Tom Britton's graph of the spread of the infection. We listened to Giesecke, Tegnell, Björn Olsen and other pandemic experts. Then I didn't know the target – that we would have a vaccine a year later. It is very large, Madam President, and has been made possible because it is precisely a pandemic in which the whole world is involved, both the poor and the rich. Hence the speed of research and production – in the case of viruses that only affect poor parts of the world, it is not usually complete. I want to thank all the scientists in the world who have made this possible, because it's amazing. Madam President, I would like Sweden could never have done like Israel, which has acted as a living laboratory through an agreement with Pfizer to share data in exchange for buying 10 million doses at the beginning when the vaccine came. These are data on adverse reactions and protective effects in different population groups. They were first out. The vaccine was relatively untested. That's bold. Nor could we have made an emergency authorisation, as the United Kingdom did for vaccination. I don't think our people would have bought it. No party, as far as I know, presented its own model for the purchase of vaccines, although I faintly remember that some batch wanted to put all the eggs in the Astra basket. Unfortunately, Astra has only delivered 30 million doses of vaccine in the first quarter against promised 100 million doses. Now there will be a legal process, and that is a good thing. Of course, making a bigger procurement for vaccines is clearly better than having all EU countries gone in and made their own small procurement. The bigger the body, the better. The more vaccines you get, the better. I believe that the European Union was rather late on the ball, but now vaccination is rolling. However, this was not the case on 3 March when we in the Left Party sent in our committee initiative. We are totally dependent on the pharmaceutical companies, and the pandemic has shown that it is difficult. However, we are constantly learning something. The pharmaceutical companies must not dictate vaccine policy or strategy as has been the case so far. The EU has been involved in financing a large part of the development of the vaccine, but nevertheless the patents belong to the companies and the contracts are still largely secret. Data on production costs, public contribution, efficiency and safety of vaccines and medicinal products should be public. The government must also push for the EU in the WTO to agree to the request to release patents and to guarantee technology transfer in order to increase the global availability of vaccines. It is absolutely essential, Madam President. On 3 March, we presented our proposal for a committee initiative. It was after a period of delayed delivery of vaccines. It was a shaky situation, I would say. The draft committee initiative presented by the Left Party was worded as follows: Sweden, Europe and the world need vaccines against covid-19 to prevent disease, death, unemployment and poverty. On several occasions, despite agreements concluded between the European Commission and the pharmaceutical companies, the delivery of vaccines has been severely reduced. This has meant that the Government's vaccination plan has been delayed. I believe that there is a great risk that Sweden and the EU have had too naive an attitude towards the will and ability of commercial pharmaceutical companies to deliver to the extent agreed. I therefore believe that the government, through the vaccine coordinator, should examine the sustainability of the promised deliveries and promptly notify the committee of the outcome. Furthermore, if the companies with which the EU has concluded agreements are unable to supply vaccines under contract, the government should also examine the possibility of alternative routes to obtain approved vaccines for the control of covid-19. We made that point on 3 March. Then it has rolled on. Madam President, I would like The alternative roads are not very many, but of course the government will have to have it on the roads we can go if there is a new problem with EU procurement and deliveries. Self-production of vaccines or Nordic cooperation would give us greater freedom and security. I read in today's DN that Denmark is now looking at self-production, and I think more countries will. We need to be prepared in a completely different way when the next crisis comes in – when the next pandemic comes in. Madam President, I would like The consequences of the pandemic have hit all societies hard in terms of human suffering as a direct consequence of disease and also economically. As early as September, the pharmaceutical producers warned that the production of vaccines would not be sufficient to meet the global need. It would take until 2024 for the whole world to have access to vaccines. Mutations will hail before the whole world has access to vaccines, and we will live in the shadow of covid-19. This can also affect Sweden hard. The whole world needs to be seen as a unit, and the whole world needs to be vaccinated quickly– it's a must. A study from Northwestern University shows that mortality in the world can decrease by 61 percent if the first 2 billion doses of the vaccine are distributed proportionally worldwide. However, if the doses are distributed only in the 50 richest countries, the mortality rate would decrease by only 33%. Therefore, the Left Party believes that the government must press on, be much clearer and ensure that more can contribute to the production and distribution of the vaccine. It is vital for the world and for Sweden. This is global. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-51	Madam President, I would like I share much of Karin Rågsjö's comments, which she made in her speech. In the case of old offences concerning the dismantling of civilian preparedness, all parties are equally guilty. Madam President, I would like Sweden is now building up civil defence again, and we agree in this House that it is needed – unfortunately. The government is also looking at various possibilities for how we can secure vaccine deliveries in the future. Furthermore, the government looks at pharmaceutical supplies and so on. The whole issue raised by Karin Rågsjö, Member of Parliament, is under way. On the other hand, I am thinking about how the honourable Member thinks about what more the government would have done to obtain vaccines. We have hired a very good vaccine coordinator, we have good contacts within the EU and we have had contact with the pharmaceutical companies nationally and internationally. What else can be done on this issue?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-54	Madam President, I would like Mikael Dahlqvist has asked me a few questions. With regard to what is going on, such as the discussion on own vaccine production and the discussion that it was wrong to close down protective stocks in 2009, we are in complete agreement. We must rebuild this. We must become self-sufficient, and we must be free. Richard Bergström has done an amazing job. He's been clear and clear. On the other hand, the EU has been late on the ball. Perhaps the vaccine coordinator and the government would have been clearer in getting more facts, pushing on more, looking at the question of how to maintain deliveries. There was clearly something wrong with one of the contracts – unfortunately with the Swedish-owned Astra. As a Swedish person, you can feel a little ashamed that Investor's big companies shook to such a degree. There, I think the government should spend more on getting the issue more transparent within the EU. Then, of course, it is difficult in the EU with this bureaucratised European Commission, but I would have liked the government to have been on more in terms of the sustainability of deliveries, the conditions for production and so on. This also applies to the conditions for the United States to export Astra vaccines, which they did not. There are a lot of questions to look at. It's always the case in the pandemic discussion that a lot of people are sitting in the gallery-- maybe even me-- looking down. You get wise after things happen. But we learn a lot day by day.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Karin Rågsjö. Of course you can be hindsight when you've got your hand straight. At the same time, I think it was a wise strategy for the European Union to make a joint procurement. I think, however, Madam President, that the European Union, via the Commission, has acted exceptionally forcefully to be such a large organisation. On the one hand, the EU announced early on the agreement with Astra Zeneca, and on the other hand the EU has obtained the Member States' agreement to initiate a legal process against the company. I don't know what else the government could have done, Karin Rågsjö. Madam President, I would like A committee initiative is a powerful tool to be used with finesse. In this case, I find it difficult to see why the issue is being put forward at all. What would the government have done that it has not done today, Karin Rågsjö?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-62	Madam President, I would like I think the government should have pushed. First of all, the EU was late on the ball when the agreements were concluded. The government would have pushed earlier to obtain facts about the possibilities of deliveries. What has shaken is that the companies did not know how to comply with the supply contracts. This is specifically about Astra. That would have been good, and then maybe we hadn't sat and trembled in March and April. The government must press for the whole world to be vaccinated in general within the EU. It's so important. It does not matter if Sweden is vaccinated unless India receives vaccines, unless South America receives vaccines and Africa does not receive vaccines. Then we will live in the shadow of covid-19 for years. We're not gonna do that. One can do better with international pressure, for example, within the WTO to get rid of patents, deliver more and do things together. That is the prerequisite for us to get out of this grip, the prerequisite for unemployment to fall, the prerequisite for children in Africa to get their other vaccines – for example, for measles – that they are not getting now. This pandemic has an enormous number of repercussions, internationally and nationally. That is why it is so important that, for once, we have global cooperation and understand that we must do this. It can't be just the rich countries sitting on the vaccine. The vaccine must be released to all countries. Only then can we lift the covid-19 towel.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-66	Madam President, I would like I'm going to start wide. We have seen a kind of general political tendency to reduce confidence in international cooperation and international institutions. It was a trend that might have started – or picked up; I don't know – with President Donald Trump. Nevertheless, it can well be said that this pandemic has shown in a way that alone is not strong and that viruses are not stopped by walls, barbed wire, nationalism or isolation– possibly by isolation when you keep your distance and do not meet other individuals, but not by isolation between states. Here I think that Sweden has acted exemplaryly. We have as the small, export dependent and internationally cooperative nation we are working with the institutions that exist. We can, of course, be critical of the European Union. Why wouldn't we be? They're slow sometimes. It is cumbersome and bureaucratic. But that is also a bit what we want, because when you disagree, we are the ones who want to slow things down – for example, when you are going to take joint decisions at European level. But let's get back to this with the vaccine management. We can see some encouraging figures today. Vaccination rates are increasing markedly. Richard Bergström, the government vaccine coordinator, was out in the media presenting the new figures: half a million doses a week. That's extremely pleasing. This also means that the regions, which have stuttered and frozen and longed for these doses, can now finally roll out the organisation that has actually been in place and is in place for a scaled-up vaccination. Here, on the basis of my belief in our institutions and our joint decisions, I have full confidence that we will begin to catch up with vaccination, which has initially been slow. That's it – a pandemic is by definition a crisis, and for crises you can always practice. Everyone knows that before swimming you get to do dry swimming, and dry swimming is not always as effective as swimming for real. It's a completely different thing, a completely different experience. Now we are not on land, but we are in the water and must learn to handle the water and find the way while we swim. Then you can choose to do in different ways. Throughout this pandemic, there have been things that it was worth criticising afterwards, when we sit with the total facit or half a facit. However, as honourable Members Anders W Jonsson and Mikael Dahlqvist explained before me – I do not think I have to repeat everything they said in their speeches – the government on this issue has nevertheless done the right thing. There have been double and triple fuses on this. Working in this way also means that a strategy somewhere gets heavy, and that's what we see here. Had we invested everything on a card, we would surely – with some luck – have been able to get a delivery from a company, guaranteed, if we had acted as an individual nation and made such an agreement. Now, instead, we have acted with other countries, and we have a plethora of agreements with many suppliers, which makes us secure. I got a report from Chile. They have a vaccination rate that is now well above 50 percent. But they chose the Chinese vaccine, I think, and with them the pandemic is in full bloom. Hospitals are overcrowded, and they're running out of oxygen. That's because that vaccine can't handle the mutations. It is an illustration of how a single nation that chooses to go its own way and find a single solution does not actually make it. In the pandemic alone is not strong, but alone is weak and vulnerable. So it is with a little surprise that I see the initiative that is on the table here, for which shelves are these vaccines on? I think that somewhere it breathes mistrust of the way the government has acted – a mistrust that is based on nothing other than a desire to reduce confidence in the government. It has no substance in reality, because there are no shelves. There are no stocks of vaccines where the government's vaccine coordinators can go and buy vaccines. That's why this is going to be very strange to me. At best, one can say that it is a matter of breaking open doors, and you can do that sometimes. So have I. At worst, it's all about torpedoing and achieving less trust in our society. I call for our joint reservation to be approved.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-81	Madam President, I would like Vaccine, it's life and health. This has been the case since the smallpox vaccine came. At the same time, the history of smallpox shows that one cannot rely on the permanent eradication of a disease, even with vaccines. The work must continue all the time, because the viruses we have to deal with will be there and probably not become fewer. But the vaccine is part of the solution that is necessary for us to preserve life and health, and just as Karin Rågsjö highlighted, it is about the whole world – that the whole world can benefit from vaccines and thus life and health. There is no doubt that it was right for the EU to coordinate in order to have an agreement with eight different pharmaceutical companies during the summer. This meant that at that stage, when we did not know if anyone would get an approved vaccine, we actually had eight different options. There is no doubt that it was the right thing to do. No one in either the committee or the House has ever proposed that we test ourselves on a vaccine that is not approved by the EMA or safe – because it must be approved by EMA and therefore safe – or use emergency aid approval, but it should be real and in the way that we always do. Once the agreements were signed, we were at the end of the summer. At that time most people, including me, thought that we went down to a slightly different location. We talked about cluster infection and did not believe in a large second wave, but all the limitations were removed. They were even removed as late as when the second wave was coming up. Surely it is clear that the government did not produce the work on a pandemic law in time. Other measures were not taken that would have been needed in the autumn, because we thought the pandemic was going away. It gave me the feeling that we had some time. I think it recorded, because in late autumn until Christmas came reports that the pharmaceutical companies were unable to deliver what was agreed. I am particularly pleased that so much basic research has led us to have vaccines today. It is 20 years of basic research that has enabled us today to use vaccines with such a short production period. Thank you to the countries that have contributed money, to the EU and to the pharmaceutical companies, who dared to step forward and invest large sums of money in this production! At the same time, however, there is irritation over the health companies, who do not keep their promises. They have not changed factories in time for the production needed. However, we could see that some of the medical companies started to reset their factories earlier in December. They worked closely with the country that concluded the agreement, and then they got a little faster deliveries. The EU hoped that it would stand by its word, and when it did not work, we had delayed deliveries. There's the difference. It is therefore not a question of anger because we entered into European cooperation – on the contrary, it was excellent – but of not just having to hope for the agreed deliveries. They should be likely to show up, too. It is the sustainability of the deliveries that are at stake. Right now we are in a situation where we have had to adjust the target for the vaccine. That was wise. If there is no vaccine in place, we cannot promise that everyone is vaccinated before 30 June. Then it is wise to postpone it so that it becomes more reasonable and likely that it can work. But it will not be finished in August. We're going to need vaccines this fall. Probably we will need a third syringe to refill or to cope with mutations, and we will continue to need syringes. The initiative on which this House may decide today is therefore urgent. A government must never sit back. It doesn't work to put a vaccine coordinator in front of him and hope that his reputation will protect the government. The government must take responsibility for its decisions and the mandates given. When you realise that the agreements that we have come together on in Europe are not enough, you must dare to decide to look elsewhere too. Can we perhaps conclude agreements together in the Nordic countries? It would be beneficial if we could get the Nordic cooperation back together once we have closed our borders for so long. Or can we look at other ways, without breaking EU cooperation, anyway? It was only when we called the minister to the committee and asked the question straight away that the answer was given: yes, of course we can look at other alternatives. But has that information been given? Now I understand that the government has not made much decisions on strategies during the pandemic, so perhaps this part does not have a formal decision either? It is important, however, that the Riksdag states that we should maintain agreements but also try other possibilities. By autumn we will need vaccine deliveries in quite large numbers. Then there must not again be delivery problems with the agreed vaccines. Then we stand there again without the vaccines we need, and there will be delays to the rest of the world too. I therefore think that this initiative is important. We must keep up the pressure and not put all the eggs in the same basket, but we must ensure that both the agreements entered into and, if necessary, try to turn us elsewhere. The goal is that we should have vaccines for everyone to the extent required in our country and in the rest of the world. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-96	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I can agree with much of what the chairman of the committee says in his speech, also that a government must turn all the stones around and see if it can increase the flow of vaccines to Sweden. There, however, we have received a reply from the government that it has given its negotiator the task of turning all the stones around and of taking all possible measures. The basic problem is that there are no more vaccines available on the market. Among the four concrete proposals contained in the committee initiative, it is one that surprises me. It is precisely that the majority of the committees believe that the government should take the initiative to redistribute vaccine doses within the EU. As I said in my speech, the governments of all countries had the opportunity to sign agreements on a number of doses in relation to their population. Sweden chose to do so, of course, and also to pay the equivalent. Some countries did not: the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria. That's why those countries asked for a redistribution when they saw that they got less – they got exactly what they had ordered, but they would like more. Then Sweden said: No, just like everyone else, you had the chance to pay and sign an agreement to get a share in relation to your population. I think it was a wise decision. Then it is another thing that we can of course share if we get a surplus in Sweden. But I cannot understand the majority of the committees, which are now saying that Sweden should take the initiative to redistribute the doses of vaccines available in the European Union so that we in Sweden, which is already receiving the exact proportion we should have depending on the population, will get more. It is incomprehensible to me how the majority of the committee can get into that position.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders W Jonsson, for raising these questions, so that we have a chance to clarify what we mean! What the report says is that we should look at the possibilities of redistribution, not at the initiative of redeployment. There's some difference. That is exactly the reverse of what the honourable Member is comparing. To the extent that countries do not want to use the vaccine they have agreed on, we shall allow for a redistribution. Then we in Sweden want to say that we want more vaccines than what is agreed. This is therefore the case if someone else releases their agreed doses. So we will do everything we can to get vaccines to Sweden. This is what the whole initiative is about. I am absolutely sure that Mr Jonsson thinks exactly the same thing. However, it is clear that when you cooperate with the government on certain issues, you have to choose what to be happy or angry about, and so on this issue the honourable Member finds it better that I am kind to the government. But surely the Center Party must think that it is important that every government takes responsibility and turns on just every stone, so that we get vaccines to Sweden. I don't think anything else.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-105	Madam President, I would like As the committee chairman points out, we have been very critical of how the government has chosen to deal with the pandemic on a large number of points. But on this particular issue, it is incomprehensible to me how one can tell the government that they are going to do something they are already doing today. There are two things that differ. One is to redistribute in negotiations. There we in Sweden already get the doses we should have depending on our population. The question of renegotiation was on the table a few months ago. Now we are seeing a great influx. As the committee said, the government is already doing what it can to find additional doses to Sweden. Perhaps we will not need these doses ourselves, because at the moment the influx is enormous. It is likely that there will be an excess of doses which we can then allocate to other, more needy countries. The second, which is incomprehensible to me, is about what the government should do in a situation where the Riksdag decides to go in and try to usurp Sweden more doses than comes from countries that want to get rid of theirs. It will be tricky if the Riksdag makes such a decision. Okay, we'll be happy to receive additional doses. It's not a problem. That is something that the government is already doing today, as has also been stated in the committee. To say, on the other hand, that in negotiations we will try to find a new solution that will give Sweden more doses is something quite different.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-109	Madam President, I would like The conclusion reached by Mr Jonsson is not the one I have drawn from the committee initiative and the text of the report we are deciding on today. On the contrary, I think it is necessary for Parliament to tell the government that in the autumn and in the spring that will have to try all the possibilities of getting vaccines to Sweden in EU cooperation, together with the Nordic countries if possible and perhaps even on their own. If we lock it in one place, it will not work in the long run, but we must dare to try all the options. I do not think we can say that just because we currently have half a million doses a week we are satisfied and can sit back. I see the need for vaccines ahead. Although the Minister said what she did to the committee, I have not seen in practice that this and this have been tried. Instead, it was a general hope that if something happens, the government can certainly look at it. This is a clear message from the Swedish Parliament's day if the decision is made: The government will try all the possibilities to get vaccines to Sweden.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-112	Madam President, I would like Member Acko Ankarberg Johansson calls for more initiative and ability by the government. As has already been said here, of course, we are interested in what more the government has been able to do. We have all received the same information in committee, and I think that information was clear and clear, at least for me. The government has done what the government can do. With the help of experts, authorities and, in this case, cooperation within the EU has sought to ensure that vaccines are delivered to Sweden, among other countries. A committee initiative is an important democratic tool. But I personally think it should be used with care, because it is a powerful tool. There is every reason to criticise and question. Personally, I am not entirely uncritical of the government's way of acting during the pandemic, but it is always easy to be hindsight. I think we should have a humble attitude to the pandemic and what we know now and what we knew a year ago. Let me ask Mr Ankarberg Johansson: What exactly would the government have done that it has not done? What is it that says the government isn't doing what you're asking right now? I think the information has been clear.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-116	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the honourable Member's assessment. It's easy to be hindsight. I said in the speaker's chair that it was right that we concluded the agreement with the European Union, and I still think it is right. But when things don't work out the way you think, you have to dare act. It is not enough to say that we are stuck in an agreement with the European Union, but we must try all the other options. The government didn't do that in the fall. It is clear that the government did not have such an approach in December, January and February, but hoped that it would be resolved. I have asked both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Prime Minister several times in this House whether we will meet the vaccine target, because it looks shaky when the pharmaceutical companies do not deliver what they have agreed. Well, they said we're going to get through the target. I said it's wise to adjust the target, because it's better to be honest and tell them it won't work because the pharmaceutical companies don't deliver what they're supposed to. But it took me a really long time to say it. It is obvious that they relied far too long on the agreements to last. But the probability of them doing so was far too low. This initiative is not about the past, but about the future. We will need vaccines this autumn, perhaps both for refilling and for possible mutations. There may also be new vaccines. Maybe we need an annual refill of vaccines, what do I know? I would therefore like to make sure, and that is why the Parliament will state it, that the Government uses all available means to obtain vaccines to Sweden. This applies within the EU, with the Nordic countries and, if necessary, on its own.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-122	Madam President, I would like Throughout the pandemic, the government has done everything in their power to ensure vaccine delivery. As I said in my main speech, we are all equally disappointed and frustrated by, among other things, Astra Zeneca's missing deliveries. But we know that producing a vaccine and that things can go wrong is an extremely complicated process. Unfortunately, it is not possible to start a new production line in one day, but it takes a long time. Here, Sweden, via the EU, has been very progressive by providing large financial resources. As I also said in my main speech, we receive many more doses than we need, both to ensure that we can cope with mutations and be able to give a refill dose, and to show solidarity with other countries that need it. I agree that the pandemic is not a European problem but a world problem. We have to get the virus out or at least get it under control. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I have some doubts as to whether this committee initiative is being taken. I think it should be more concrete when using such a powerful tool.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-126	Madam President, I would like I note that Mrs Dahlqvist says that committee initiatives are a powerful instrument. I do not understand that the government sees it in the same way, because you decide for yourself whether to obey the Riksdag or not. We have taken several initiatives where the government has not done anything for several years, and these are initiatives that are extremely urgent. This applies not least to the question of investigating drugs policy and some other issues on which our committee has agreed, but on which the government has still not taken an approach, despite the fact that an ANDTS strategy has even been put forward. The committee initiatives are important for the Riksdag to be able to raise issues on its own. But whether they are powerful depends well on the government, and regardless of the government it does not always obey the parliament. I think we can agree on that after all. This initiative is important to me. Once again, I note that the honourable Member is pleased that we have agreements for the autumn. I'm not, because I don't know the probability of them delivering. Looking back, I see that it is not always as the pharmaceutical companies have agreed. They have problems with production and have to change their factories and other things, which in itself is good but delays deliveries and can even cause us to get nothing. Some of the vaccines we have agreed on can also be judged not safe enough, and then it goes without saying that we do not recommend them to our people. So we do not know for the autumn, and it is therefore urgent that the Riksdag should state to the Government: Make sure that you try all the ways so that Sweden gets the vaccine we need and can also assist other countries so that the whole world can be vaccinated.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-131	Madam President, I would like The vaccine is our hope. It saves lives and is the way out of the pandemic we find ourselves in. Vaccination creates the conditions for us to be able to ease the restrictions and recommendations that slow down our economy and is causing Sweden's already too high unemployment to rise further. The vaccine really gives hope, but the government must not just hope and sit back. On the contrary, the government needs to step forward, show leadership and take responsibility to ensure rapid and successful vaccination. But, Madam President, the government has failed in its responsibilities and leadership by being passive and reactive, which unfortunately is typical of the government's overall corona management. We saw it at the beginning of the pandemic with the testing accident that occurred at the time and which is probably an important part of the explanation that the spread of infection in Sweden has been so extensive. Testing and detection have not worked well enough – and still do not. Sweden still lacks a digital infection detection app, and is still left too much responsibility for infection detection on the individual who tested positive for covid-19. That's not good enough. Infectious detection needs to be improved. We also saw the slowness of the government in dealing with the very large spread of infection in the care of the elderly. As the Corona Commission noted, the national restraining order came late, and the government bears a great responsibility for the failure of the strategy to protect the elderly. We also saw that the government was not prepared for either the second or the third wave of the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about what the government should have done but first and foremost about what the government needs to do in the future on the issue of vaccines. On the initiative of the Moderates, Parliament is now demanding what should really be absolutely self-evident, namely that the government should turn every stone around to ensure that we have access to as much vaccine as possible, as quickly as possible. We Moderates are deeply critical of the government's passivity and single-trackness on the vaccine issue. It is great that the EU has jointly been able to procure vaccines, but we Moderates have always been clear that the government must not only rely on the EU but also need to act on its own. But instead of doing everything possible to allow Sweden early to buy vaccines, the government chose to wait for the EU's joint procurements. The government's one-track choices were, we mean, moderates, a mistake. Madam President, I would like Of course, we cannot know whether Swedish vaccination had gone further, nor how much longer, if the government had not put all the eggs in one basket. However, we know that vaccinations in Sweden are seriously delayed due to the lack of vaccines. And we know that the division of responsibilities between the state and the regions on the issue of vaccines is quite clear. It is the government that is responsible for the delivery of vaccines, and it is the regions that are responsible for carrying out the vaccination. Madam President, I would like When we Moderates presented the initiative at the beginning of March, Sweden would at that time have received 3,750,000 doses of vaccine but had only received about 1.1 million doses delivered, i.e. barely 30% of the expected deliveries. On 1 April, the government was finally forced to give up the goal that all adults should have been vaccinated in the first half of 2021. The price of this delay is extremely high. Ultimately, it is about human life but also about jobs and businesses and about crushed dreams and life's work. Similarly, the benefits of speeding up vaccinations are amazing. Life can be saved, pressure on health care can be eased and economic recovery can take off. The Riksbank estimates that every month the pandemic can be shortened means profits of approximately SEK 25 billion and savings for the public sector of SEK 20 billion in terms of bnp. Madam President, I would like At last we are seeing how the delivery of vaccines is taking off and thus the vaccination, but the government must not settle down and do as Mrs Dahlqvist made so clear in his speech, namely think that the danger is now over and that we are soon at the finish line. The Moderates and now a majority of the Riksdag demand that the government turn every stone and investigate any possibility of increasing the availability of vaccines and thus achieving a faster vaccination. In concrete terms, it is about measures and efforts at EU level to ensure that agreed deliveries come and agreements are kept, but it is also about looking at the possibility of signing new agreements together with other countries – preferably in Nordic cooperation, as the honourable Member Acko Ankarberg Johansson highlighted – or entirely on his own for Sweden. We think that the possibility of redistribution should at least be discussed. Everyone realises that this is difficult matter and that it is not simple, but we think that every possibility needs to be tested. The government's inaction requires the act of the Riksdag. That is why today's decision and debate are important. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to remind you that we do not just need to ensure the availability of vaccines here and now in the short term. Probably we need refill doses to maintain vaccination protection, and we probably also need doses to manage the corona virus changing and mutating. This is just the beginning of long-term work to protect our population against the serious disease caused by the Corona virus. Now it is a matter for the government to learn from its mistakes and to move from passivity to activity. No one claims that it is easy to increase purchases and Sweden's access to vaccines, but I am convinced that all Swedes expect the government to at least try, to try every possibility and to turn every stone around. This is what the government must now do. I support the Moderates' proposal and the committee's proposal for a declaration.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-146	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that you should review, criticize and question when you are in opposition. It is the rules of policy, and it is also a way of developing democracy and getting better proposals, as Mr Hultberg said in his speech. On the other hand, Madam President, I do not understand what stones it is that the government should turn over that it has not already turned over. It would be interesting to hear from Johan Hultberg what measures he lacks, concretely. It's easy to stand and criticize, but I think it's a little fuzzy and nothing concrete. Tell me, Johan Hultberg, what it is the government has missed that you think is so important now and in the future! Madam President, I would like With regard to the general criticism of passivity and missing during testing and in the care of the elderly, I would like to remind Mr Hultberg that the government, together with the cooperation parties, has made historic efforts in the field of welfare, among other things. There have also been shortcomings in the past in areas such as care for the elderly, and this is due to a long-term policy that has prioritised tax cuts over welfare. We're prioritising welfare first. Then I would like to remind Johan Hultberg that we have 21 regions in our country, still. They are responsible for testing activities. One can discuss whether this is wise or not. That question will certainly come up – what to do with the headship. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, Madam President, as the honourable Member criticises, it is a municipal responsibility that we know, and most municipalities that have failed are governed by the bourgeoisie.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-151	Madam President, I would like Let me begin where Mrs Dahlqvist left off. It is clear that the Social Democrats are completely preoccupied with escaping responsibility for all issues relating to the pandemic. The Corona Commission has been clear in its criticism of the government, and that is what I referred to. Mrs Dahlqvist is now trying to transfer all responsibility to the municipalities, despite the fact that the Corona Commission has been extremely clear that it is ultimately the government that governs the country and that bears responsibility for the serious shortcomings we see in the care of the elderly. It would have been nice and attractive, I think, if members of the Social Democrats who are involved in the Social Committee showed some self-criticism and took the initiative for what can be done in the future. That is what this debate should be about – what we can do in the future to learn from what has been and to ensure that we create better care for the elderly tomorrow. Yes, it is true, as Mrs Dahlqvist says, that the government has paid a lot of money to the regions to cover the costs incurred and to ensure, for example, the purchase of vaccines. But, Madam President, money cannot make up for the lack of responsibility and leadership on the part of the government. What I am asking from the government is for every stone to be turned around on the issue of vaccinations. You haven't done that. A choice has been made. A one - track road was made, laying all the eggs in a basket. It did not test other possibilities and ways to buy vaccines in addition to the EU-wide procurement. I was one of the very first Members of this Parliament to call for Sweden to take the initiative for a joint EU procurement. I wrote questions, and I raised it in discussions in the European Council and also in the Social Affairs Committee. At that time I was mostly met with sighs and announcements that it was so far ahead. I am pleased that the government finally listened to this and struck the trail of having to work together within the EU, but I am critical that the government has not worked in parallel to draw up national agreements. I expect the government to do so now. Other countries have already begun discussions with companies with which the EU has not yet procured and signed agreements. The Swedish Government should, of course, do the same.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-157	Madam President, I would like I thank you, Johan Hultberg, for your answer. When it comes to what the government is doing now and in the future, I think it is very clear what our Minister Lena Hallengren has said and also what our vaccine coordinator has said. The vaccine coordinator has been clear in his reply when he has visited the committee several times. He has a full mandate and full authority to explore all possibilities with alternative manufacturers and deliveries. I know that Mr Hultberg also thinks that the EU is fundamentally good, and I welcome the fact that we have the same vision. But putting all the eggs in the same basket, as he says, goes against what was the EU's strategy. Contracts were signed with lots of different suppliers to ensure that we would get some or some approved vaccines. Now it went much better than we dared hope. Madam President, I would like I am still calling for concrete answers from the honourable Member. What is it that the government has not done or that the government will do in the future? I think that our common information has been self-evident and clear to me, that we are now looking at every detail. Is it possible to sign an agreement on Russian vaccines? Can other suppliers be found? Can you build more manufacturing and so on? The problem right now is that we are waiting for information if, for example, the vaccine from Russia is as good as is said. We want safe and good vaccines.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-161	Madam President, I would like I am not critical of vaccine coordinator Richard Bergström or of the mandates he has. It was finally announced when we called Richard Bergström and the government to us in committee that he has a mandate to look at other possibilities. But the question is, has he really done it? The view I got at that meeting was that it chose the path, and it chose to take a single-track approach to the EU-wide procurement. What we Moderates have said throughout the pandemic on the issue of vaccines is that we in Sweden have to work in two parallel tracks. We need to work by purchasing vaccines together with other European countries within the EU. It has been successful, as we also state in the committee's position, that we have been able to access vaccines early on. But we are critical that Sweden did not also carry out active work on the parallel track, i.e. to sign an agreement on its own. We see that other countries have managed to do both. For example, Germany has signed agreements alongside EU procurement. We now see that a wide range of countries are engaged in discussions with companies that are not yet part of EU procurement. France, Germany and other countries discuss this with the company that is active here in Sweden, Valneva. Such activities and measures must also be carried out by the Swedish Government. That has not been done so far. Sweden needs to turn over every stone. And it is not enough to have a mandate to turn every stone around; it is also necessary to do so. When I have highlighted the issue of redeployment for the Prime Minister – at the latest when reporting back from the European Council just before Easter – he has given quite a given impression. He said it's probably hopeless. You don't even want to try. And that is concrete what I and the Moderates expect and demand, that the government at least try.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-164	Madam President, I would like I can say the same thing as I said earlier when I asked for a reply, namely that I can agree with very much of what Mr Hultberg is highlighting in this House – a sharp criticism of the government on a large number of points regarding how the pandemic has been handled. That list can be made very long. It therefore becomes quite incomprehensible that it is just one of the few things that I have to say that the government has actually done the right thing that leads to a committee initiative and that is to be debated in this House. But now I understand that this is a little bit due to a misunderstanding. Mr Hultberg says that the government has chosen to place all the eggs in the same basket. But that is exactly what the government has not done, and it has chosen, together with all the EU countries, to procure vaccines from all the major vaccine manufacturers. According to my picture, it's not putting all the eggs in the same basket. Putting all the eggs in the same basket is what Israel has done as signed agreements only with Pfizer. But the fact that the EU has jointly signed agreements with all the major vaccine manufacturers can never be to put all the eggs in the same basket. Then it is self-evident that you should investigate all the possibilities that are also available. And we have had that answer very clearly in committee. When Mr Hultberg talks about what should be done further, it should be reversed on each stone. The government says you turn every stone around. You're supposed to make sure. Now it is even going to the legal process. Everything has to be tested. Then there is the question of renegotiating the basic agreement. I can understand that the Prime Minister was doubtful about this because the renegotiation was what had been discussed and where it had not been seen that it was visible because those countries that had not chosen to buy what they could also have no more. But which countries have been successful in finding other methods? Is it Hungary or Britain?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-169	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I was disappointed when I heard Mr Anders Jonsson's speech here earlier. I've come to know him as a serious politician who doesn't mess with the facts. But that is what the honourable Member, Anders W Jonsson, unfortunately, did in his speech. It was obvious that he had either not read the committee's position or that he deliberately distorted what it said. It is insinuated that we Moderates and others who support this committee initiative would like to buy vaccines that are not approved. In fact, it is not insinuated but was rightly said that we were critical that Sweden has signed agreements through the EU and made joint procurements. That is not the case at all. It's fake. We Moderates are in favour of Sweden finding an EU-wide solution. But we think that Sweden should also have tested the possibility of signing its own agreements and also need to explore these possibilities further. We see that other countries have managed to do this. I am humbled by the difficulty of obtaining additional vaccines. But I think the government needs to try all the possibilities. My firm opinion is that the government has not done so. When the party leaders had discussions on the matter, the Prime Minister's statement until June was that the government felt that it could not rely entirely on EU procurement, but that it must continue to work on a Swedish track as well. But that has not been done. Why has this work been abandoned? I wonder. We now see, as I said, that there are companies with which the EU does not have agreements, such as Valneva. There, of course, I expect Sweden to have discussions. I realise that it is difficult to discuss redistribution. But we now see that countries choose not to use certain vaccines and that there have been large deliveries of vaccines that individual countries have not used.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-173	Madam President, I would like For those who listen to this debate, there will be a completely incomprehensible debate. Here we have a government that has handled a pandemic in a number of wrong ways, and there is every reason for Parliament to be sharply critical. However, when it comes to the overall issue – how we will ensure, in the short term and in the long term, that we have as much access to vaccines as possible to the Swedish population and then, in addition, can start to secure for other parts of the world by sharing with us – the government has acted in a surprisingly wise way. A vaccine coordinator has been appointed with a very broad mandate to look at two ways, namely EU coordination and also the possibility to also sign agreements for small Sweden. It quickly came to the conclusion that the only accessible possibility at first was to sign agreements with the other EU countries. It has benefited Sweden. We have had a very large supply of vaccines, although there were delivery problems at first. So this committee initiative came at a time when there were problems with deliveries. I can understand the spirit of time then, given Austria's chancellor who went to Israel to negotiate for vaccines there and given Orbán who started vaccination with Sputnik and other things. But I cannot understand what else the Swedish Government or any other government would have done. The EU track has been followed, and the market has also been surveyed. However, as the vaccine coordinator said in committee: it is not that there are a lot of extra vaccines to buy on the market. If it now turns out that other EU countries want to redistribute to Sweden, it is clear that we will not say no to it, given that we have that need. But this initiative is nothing more than a powerful blow to the air, Madam President. It's kicking in an open door.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-177	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am surprised by this receded attitude. I'm genuinely surprised by it. Of course, we would never have raised this initiative if we were not concerned, really, that the government thinks that everything has now been done – that there is nothing more to do and that you are done. We're not done at all. We are at the beginning of a long-term effort to provide our population with effective protection against the disease caused by the coronavirus. The vaccine is our light in the tunnel, and as a country we must do everything we can to get the population here and now to be vaccinated as quickly as possible and to be able to offer long-term refill doses and doses that take into account that the virus is likely to mutate and change. However, the government has not taken the necessary initiatives, and when the government does not take the initiative, the parliament must do so. It was only when it became apparent to the government that there was a majority supporting the Moderate initiative that it said that it was obviously looking at other possibilities alongside EU procurement. Before that, they had only shrugged their shoulders and ignored all the proposals and demands to take other initiatives. This inaction is now also being expressed by Mr Jonsson. He says, of course, that we should not say no to additional vaccines if we are asked. But we should not wait until someone asks the question; we will examine every possibility. We will proactively contact other countries to see if Sweden can access the vaccine that that country does not need or want to use. We will actively engage in discussions with pharmaceutical companies that are not yet part of the EU-wide procurement process. We will do everything we can to speed up Swedish vaccination.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-181	Madam President, I would like We are in a very difficult time, and many have been severely affected by the pandemic. The situation is still very serious. So we are approaching 14 000 deaths in covid-19, and there is, of course, great concern about where this will end. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has the highest level of social contamination across Europe. Of the 15 worst affected regions in Europe, 13 are located in Sweden. The number of confirmed cases of covid-19 has increased in Sweden for eleven consecutive weeks, and this wave of infection is higher and longer than in other severely affected countries. In fact, it was the same last spring, with the result that there were many more long-term ills and deaths than probably had been necessary. Unfortunately, it will not be long after the summer before the number of vaccinated animals is large enough for the spread of the disease to be properly suppressed. With today's level of infection, up to half a million Swedes will have been affected by covid-19, of which tens of thousands will have long-term or severe problems. The question, Madam President, is this: has the government's toolbox of measures to suppress the spread of disease in society run out? Or has the government chosen not to use the tools that actually exist and that could perhaps make a difference now that we have Europe's highest spread of infection? Madam President, I would like However, there is a light in the dark, which we have all hoped for, and it is the vaccine against covid-19. That is what this debate is about. Sweden is currently receiving covid vaccines through joint procurement by the EU countries, which is basically a good and very wise decision. Unfortunately, however, some procedures have not worked as well as was hoped for. A lot of deliveries have been delayed or completely absent, which has meant that EU countries are lagging behind a number of other developmentally comparable countries in the world. After all, the EU put great hope in Astra Zeneca's vaccine, and now it is Astra Zeneca who has the biggest delivery problems while Pfizer and Moderna have delivered something like they said and promised. On 8 December 2020, the Public Health Agency submitted a forecast for deliveries of 17 million doses in the first half of 2021, but now the new forecast shows that deliveries amount to a total of 11 million doses over the same period of time. So there are 6 million fewer doses than originally thought, and that is of course not good. It should be borne in mind that the possibility of vaccination obviously affects businesses' activities and jobs, but it is ultimately about saving people's lives and health. It is therefore a little regrettable that the government has not monitored Sweden's availability of vaccines harder than has been done and that further ways of securing the availability of vaccines have not been reviewed at an early stage. We believe that the government must, in fact, do more and itself investigate more ways to obtain approved vaccines for our people. We cannot just sit and hope that Europe will solve this. We do not know what the situation will be this autumn – the infection may increase, and the mutations may increase. Maybe there'll be more delivery problems. Therefore, the government must act and test all possibilities to see that agreed deliveries of vaccines are carried out. Of course, it is also a question of concluding new agreements wherever possible, and this can be done together with the Nordic countries or on your own. As has been said here before, we must turn every stone around and see what we can do in the future. We do not know what the situation will be in the autumn and whether it might even get worse. It may be a fourth wave, and a fifth — no one knows. We therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-190	Madam President, I would like An incredible research effort has meant that there is now not only one but several vaccines against covid-19 – against the virus we did not even know a year and a half ago. Thanks to the EU, Sweden became part of large vaccine agreements, and I am very grateful and happy about that. Health care has been ready for staffing, premises and logistics throughout the spring. This is a giant machine that plays a big role for people. The agreements signed by the EU, Madam President, have given Sweden early access to vaccines. There's no talk about it-- that was the right way to go. But deliveries have both been delayed and completely missed. The forecast, which in December was 17 1⁄2 million doses until this summer, is now 11 million. It's no wonder it's hacking. It's perfectly understandable. At the same time, the availability of an authorised and safe vaccine to anyone who needs it is our only truly powerful weapon to combat the pandemic. The possibility of vaccination, Madam President, affects our health in so many ways; it concerns isolation, illness and rehabilitation needs. Vaccination is also crucial for the health care to be able to cope. It is crucial for companies, for jobs and for tax revenues to the well-being in the long term. And, of course, this is ultimately about people's lives. Here we have to turn every stone around to ensure that every dose that can come to fragile people also comes to this country. If there are countries that have previously signed high-risk agreements and that have a surplus, we will of course proactively try to get a share of this. If it is possible to redistribute, we should of course quickly be there and say: We would like to! Everyone must help each other on this planet, and we must not wait. We must be an active part – a very active player – in getting vaccines to our own population and, of course, in helping those who cannot themselves around the world. Are there any other ways to go? This is simply the basic issue. Here the government's own strategy says that it rests on three legs. It is about the national plan for how vaccination should be carried out in the country, where the Public Health Agency is a very important player. It's about the vaccine coordinator, who is going to do a great job internationally – and who has done a fantastic job – to ensure that the vaccine reaches Sweden. It is also about what the government itself calls its own continued international work. It is on this point that I am not convinced, just as I was not completely convinced when I asked a question last January about our readiness for a possible pandemic – the one in which we have lived since then – and received the answer that it was the regions that were responsible for health care. I also received a reply that there was an agreement on influenza vaccines – whatever this had to do with it – and that an investigation into preparedness would be completed by September next year; it is therefore still not finished. Such answers do not convince, and a little bit I feel that the answers are the same now. The EU agreement is fantastic, companies are changing their production around the world and the vaccine coordinator is doing a fantastic job. But that is not my question; my question is what the government is doing proactively. What does the government do with its power? What does the government we have entrusted do? The majority in this country have said that these people should take responsibility for what is happening. Unfortunately, it is so simple that Nikita Chrusjtjov was right when he said that you can't boil half the chicken and then take eggs from the other half. You can't have power without taking responsibility. The government must take full responsibility for these vaccines reaching Sweden. This cannot be passed on to anyone else – not to the EU and not to the vaccine coordinator, even if they are important players. That is why I support the proposal in this report, Madam President. We all have to hold on. I don't want any of us dropping our guard too soon. The regions must be given all the support they need to ensure that health care is able to do this all the way through. It is absolutely crucial that the government does everything to speed up the availability of vaccines, both in the months to come and in the years to come, and at the same time, of course, prepares for a well-thought-out opening of our society once we have reached that point.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-204	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that the Swedish Democrats are behind their reservations in the report. Road safety concerns us all, and most of us have relatives or friends who have suffered a traffic accident. A few days ago, an accident took the lives of three young people. It was a tragedy for their relatives, friends, teachers and classmates. In Expressen, three people died – the driver of the driving car, a man in his 35s from another Nordic country, and an 18-year-old girl and a 25-year-old man. Another 18-year-old girl was taken to hospital with ambulance helicopters to receive treatment for her serious injuries. In just seven weeks, the dead girl would have graduated. Jennifer Olsson, picture teacher at Möckelngymnasiet, has to remove a tear when she tells her that she met her student as late as Friday. ..................................................... I myself have been involved in investigating over 300 serious accidents, and I can assure you that this is a heavy job. Our task was to investigate whether it was vehicles, drivers or roads that caused the accident. There were periods when you felt like a traveler in the last two seconds of a person's life. Every accident has its own special development. They tried to understand the course of events, especially if there were no survivors or other Witnesses. Madam President, I would like For a layman, it may be difficult to understand how a demolished vehicle can tell about the course of the accident, but the direction of deformation clearly indicates the forces to which the vehicle has been subjected. It is also possible to see if the driver has had the lights on during the journey, if the driver has used his seat belt and if the driver has seen what was about to happen – by studying filaments in the bulbs of the stop lamps you can see if the driver has braked just before the collision. In today's cars you can retrieve relevant information from the wagon control unit. Although it was part of the job, tragedy affected people, especially young people. I remember especially when a young driver died in a single accident. The car was deformed around a tree, and the person died on site. The parents asked us to try to get the CD out of the stereo, because they wanted to hear the music their children listened to at the end of their life. After a lot of sequencing, we managed to get the remains of the stereo out of the car, and luckily, the CD had not been damaged. It was a relief to be able to hand over the album, which was so important to the parents. My work at the traffic police has strengthened my perception of the importance of working purposefully for safer traffic. Legislation and monitoring in all honour, but knowledge of the origin of accidents is an important element both for the automotive industry and for all volunteers working in various associations to train drivers. Madam President, I would like For many years I have worked with education and knowledge-raising courses within, among others, FAK and Riksförbundet M. There are many organisations that spend considerable resources to train people to become safer drivers. In the vast majority of cases, voluntary action by members contributes to increasing road users' awareness of risks. The SMC is an important organisation to increase the safety of the country's motorcyclists, and I can say with certainty that their work has led to a positive development in the number of motorcycle accidents. All these efforts by free-standing organisations have been an extremely important part of Sweden's successful work on road safety. Let us work to continue along the successful path. The current proposal will be an effective brake block in road safety work as the car industry and voluntary road safety organisations are excluded from relevant information. Several consultation bodies point out the need to allow direct access to authorities other than those named in the memorandum's draft constitution. In this part, the Swedish Transport Administration, Lund University of Technology and Chalmers University of Technology state that researchers, including at universities and colleges, should have direct access to Strada because this research makes important contributions to road safety work. The National Association for the Promotion of Road Safety, NTF, the National Association M Sweden, former Motormännens Riksförbund, Svensk Trafikmedicinsk Förening and Motorförarnas Helnykterhetsförbund emphasizes the importance of allowing direct access to associations working with road safety, as such organisations need data from the database in their work to achieve the zero vision. Volvo, Volvo Cars and Nevs points out that limiting direct access to the industry represents a major setback for road safety work.
i-9WR6PkipKEKbATSEVB37wz	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Transport Committee's report TU11 The Swedish Transport Agency's accident database, proposal 2020/ 21:24 with a motion request. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. During the second half of the 20th century, work began on the creation of an information system on accidents occurring in the road transport system. This accident database, Swedish Traffic Accident Data Acquisition, which is abbreviated Strada, is currently being conducted by the Swedish Transport Agency. The purpose of Strada is to be a tool for road safety work at local, regional and national level and a basis for statistics and research in the field of road safety. The Strada database is an important tool for zero vision work. Strada brings together tasks from the Police and Health Services. Reporting from the Police Authority refers to information about the accident itself and its course of events. The information comes from the police called to the scene of the accident or from information received through a police report. Reporting from healthcare is based on an agreement reached between the Swedish Transport Agency and health care establishments or regions, and is done with the consent of the patient and relates mainly to data on personal injuries resulting from an accident. Madam President, I would like In the bill, the Government proposes to introduce a law that regulates the processing of personal data in Strada about accidents and personal injuries in traffic. The data are used in different road safety related contexts. The proposed Act, which will complement the EU's General Data Protection Regulation, must include provisions on the purposes for which personal data may be processed in the database and also for how long. Provision shall also be made for the pseudonymisation of personal data and direct access. The new Act is proposed to include provisions on the obligations of the Police Authority, the Coast Guard and certain healthcare providers to provide information to the database. At present, Strada mainly contains data on accidents that have occurred in the road transport system. But the new law will also include accidents occurring in recreational shipping, as the zero vision and transport policy objectives now apply to all modes of transport. Another amendment to the proposal is that emergency care providers whose activities include orthopaedics should provide data to the database concerning all persons seeking treatment or who have died as a result of an accident. This should be done regardless of whether the patient agrees or not. The Government proposes that the new Act will enter into force on 1 July 2021. Madam President, I would like The Government considers that the accident database does not constitute a significant breach of personal integrity. However, the database may contain data of an integrity-sensitive nature relating to a large number of individuals. It is therefore important that the processing of personal data is regulated by law. The law shall establish the legal framework for the processing of personal data and contain provisions that provide a fundamental protection of the individual's personal integrity. The law must also be supplemented by regulations. The Government believes that the Swedish Transport Agency should continue to be the principal of Strada. Madam President, I would like Access to Strada will be such as this one today, i.e. that the Swedish Civil Protection Authority, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, Traffic Analysis, the Swedish Transport Administration, the county administrative boards and municipal authorities will be granted direct access to the database. The proposal provides for direct access only to pseudonymised data. Similarly, in the application of the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, universities and higher education institutions shall be treated as public authorities and shall be granted direct access. As regards access for companies and stakeholder organisations, there will be no change compared to the current situation. These operators will be able to contact the Swedish Transport Agency and request information, and the authority will then review the conditions for disclosure of information under the confidentiality regulation. In this context, I would like to highlight the important work on research carried out by voluntary organisations and other actors and their importance for road safety. Madam President, I would like With this, I would once again like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-228	Madam President, I would like One cannot ignore the fact that it is heavy consultation bodies that have been critical of the drafting of this proposal. It has a detrimental impact on NGOs such as the National Association M, MHF, NTF and others who work to educate road users. This proposal affects their ability to do so, and it also affects the car industry. It is extremely important to obtain information about how an accident occurred, whether it was a driver, vehicle or road that was the cause. It is not about finding out if Pelle Olsson was driving too fast in connection with the accident or if Stina Persson was under the influence of alcohol, it is about being able to get a picture of the course of the accident and then be able to make efforts to ensure that other road users are educated and relevant knowledge about how to avoid similar situations. The voluntary organisations – SMC, M, MHF and NTF – are making an enormous effort to increase road safety, minimise accidents and eliminate fatal accidents. Then we must help and assist these organisations so that they can do a good job, but the government does not do so with the proposal that is before us today. One may well release information that is not linked to an individual, but one deletes that possibility in the proposal that is currently in place.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-232	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Thomas Morell! Thomas Morell raises an interesting question. Direct access is important and has been discussed for a long time. As the honourable Member said, several referrals have been made. I also agree with Thomas Morell on the important work done by these NGOs. Together they are helped to eat, hence the zero vision and the good road safety work we have in Sweden. Again: These will be able to access the information. Although these organisations do not have direct access to Strada, they will be able to request this information from the Swedish Transport Agency, which then makes an assessment.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-236	Madam President, I would like The proposal is such that the information will be very limited. I get a little bit of the feeling that one does not want to open up to the possibility of criticising, for example, the Swedish Transport Administration for poor road maintenance. There were times when we did technical studies when we were able to see that it was the road conditions that caused the accident. It was not the driver and it was not the vehicle that caused it, but the road environment that was the problem. This is what is so extremely important – that we can join forces to tackle what is a concern for safety, that we can minimise the death or harm of people in our traffic environment. Every human life we can save, every person who doesn't have to end up in a wheelchair, is a huge gain – of course for the individual, but also for society. That is why it is very backwards when you come up with a proposal like this. Traffic harvests somewhere around 200 deaths a year. In addition, everyone who gets hurt comes. We have made enormous progress in road safety. For that we can thank the car industry, of course, which has produced safe vehicles, but we also have NGOs to thank. They have made a tremendous effort to deal with the problems of people being injured and killed in the traffic environment. Instead, we have an effect where we go backwards. This has been pointed out by several heavy consultation bodies.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-241	Madam President, I would like I agree with the fine work and culture we have in Sweden with cooperation and collaboration. We therefore come up with good solutions, including in the area of road safety. But again, I would like to point out that there will be no difference. These organisations will be able to request information. They will be available to you. Then I can understand that NGOs and other actors may find it a bit complicated compared to having direct access to Strada. However, we must not forget that not a great many authorities have direct access to Strada. It is limited, and I think it is important. With privacy-sensitive data there, it is important that they are kept within a specific group of people who have access to Strada. But again: these organisations will be able to request information for the important work they are doing.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-244	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish Transport Agency's accident database. Last year Sweden arranged the final conference of the UN's ten-year work to improve road safety in the world. It was no coincidence that it was held in Sweden. We have been primarily in road safety globally for several decades. The most important reason for Sweden's advanced position is the systematic research carried out in road safety. It affects the entire traffic environment, how we build and develop our roads and how vehicles need to operate with safety systems that avoid a collision and systems that protect people inside and outside the vehicles when a collision is inevitable. At the same time, research has shown that the main cause of accidents is the human factor. How can the traffic environment be developed to support people travelling in different ways? One of the answers has been the development of self-driving cars. I myself have been working on data collection for research. With cameras we followed drivers during normal driving in their normal environment. A week after the start of the first project, my family and I had a serious accident where the car was scrapped afterwards. Thanks to the protection of the car and the efficiency with which we were treated after the accident itself, my whole family survived. You are very happy that you live in the Nordic countries. On this basis, I would like to say that the available data is important for research. It's the gold of science. Through decisions by authorities and companies, data has so far been collected systematically, allowing research to see the impact of various measures over time and which measures and functions really reduce the risk of injury and death rates, in Sweden and globally. Today's proposal concerns such a database: the Swedish accident database Strada, which started in the 1990s. The accident database contains information about accidents from the Police Authority and the health care service. This means large amounts of personal data – sensitive personal data. The Liberals welcome this bill, which contains regulation of the personal data processing specifically for the Strada accident database as it contains data on people in vulnerable situations and is used by many different organisations. I believe that the bill strikes a good balance between the individual's right to privacy and society's need for data in order to develop the transport system so that we can avoid accidents in the future. The rules regulate who can access data and for what purposes, along with how direct access to data should be made. It is positive that they involve both authorities and organisations that can have a strong impact on future road safety. This is a prerequisite for close collaboration between academia and industry, for example, so that research can be more easily translated into road safety-enhancing measures and products. The obligation for the Police Authority, Coast Guard and caregivers to provide information is also regulated. This can in the long term provide a more complete data base with higher quality, which is positive for future research and also for the other road safety work in Sweden. The Act also regulates the collection of data in the event of accidents in leisure shipping, which may eventually lead to increased personal safety in this area as well. Finally, Madam President, the Liberals believe that this proposal protects personal integrity in a balanced way while laying the foundations for a future database that can help authorities, universities and companies to ensure a continued high level of road safety in Sweden and Sweden's position in road safety globally.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-256	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling on the Green Party to approve the committee's proposal in the report and, therefore, on the proposal. I am replacing my colleague Emma Berginger here today, who is unable to take part in this debate because of a cold. She sends her regards to all of you and hopes that you can meet in another debate in the future. I hope to be able to do her justice in this debate. Every year people are killed and seriously injured in traffic. Sweden has outstanding road safety work where the zero vision, the vision that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic, is the foundation. In order to be able to work effectively to reduce the risks in our transport systems, it is important to build a knowledge of where, how and why people die and are injured in traffic. The Strada accident database plays an important role there. The development of an accident database began in the second half of the 1990s and has since been the subject of several investigations. The information in the database is useful both in research and in practical and practical traffic planning. Madam President, I would like The database has, as I said, a very important function for research and work on road safety. However, it is always important to process personal data, not least sensitive data about life, health and death, with care. Therefore, it is good that the government has now developed a proposal for a law on the Swedish Transport Agency's accident database. The Government makes the assessment that the processing in the Strada accident database together does not constitute a significant breach of personal integrity, but notes that the database contains data of a high integrity-sensitive nature relating to a large number of individuals. Therefore, the Government considers that the processing of personal data in the database should be regulated by law. The proposed Act, which complements the EU's Data Protection Regulation, contains provisions on the purposes for which personal data may be processed in the database, on requirements for the anonymisation of personal data and on direct access. Today, there is in Strada information on accidents from the Police and Health Services. Reporting from the Police Authority refers to information about the accident itself and its course. Reporting from the care is done on the basis of the patient's consent and includes information on the personal injuries caused by the accident. It is now proposed that healthcare providers should be required to provide data to the database, regardless of whether the patient has consented or not, which will facilitate ensuring that the database contains more complete information on the accidents that have occurred. The government's overall assessment is that the general interest of ensuring a high-quality knowledge base that is designed to improve road safety outweighs the breach of privacy that mandatory reporting entails. Madam President, I would like As far as road accidents are concerned, we are thinking mainly of road accidents, but the proposed law also provides that data on accidents in leisure shipping should be reported to the accident database, which will be a good and important addition of information. The zero vision, which we have all adopted, also applies to shipping. The law also proposes that certain authorities should have direct access to the database. The Government proposes that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB), the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, i.e. VTI, Trafikanalys, Trafikverket, the county administrative boards and municipal authorities should be allowed direct access to personal data in the accident database that the respective authority needs for road safety purposes. The Government also proposes that universities and colleges that are public authorities or that apply the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, 2009:400, should be equated with public authorities and allowed direct access to personal data in the database if the data are needed for research on road safety. Madam President, I would like In their motion, the Swedish Democrats want companies and non-profit organisations to be allowed to access anonymised information in Strada. However, the proposal does not imply any change in the access of companies and associations to data in the database. You can continue to contact the Swedish Transport Agency to request information. It is of course important that civil society organisations that carry out important work in the field of road safety can also obtain data even if they do not have direct access to the database. Madam President, I would like Strada contains important information in order to do effective work on road safety. With the proposal in the bill, the quality of the database is strengthened, and the integrity of victims is safeguarded.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-271	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on road and vehicle issues. It is a report which contains 190 requests concerning, among other things, fossil-free transport, parking issues, car pools, car sharing, vehicle inspection and self-driving vehicles. This is an area where a lot needs to happen. The whole transport sector has a target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030. We know that most of the emissions from the transport sector come from road traffic, from car traffic in particular, which accounts for one fifth of Sweden's total emissions with approximately 10 million tonnes of greenhouse gases each year. We need to reduce emissions from the transport sector by around 8% annually. Then do we? No, in 2019 emissions decreased by only 2 per cent. In other words, it is completely inadequate. I believe that the government is not doing enough in this area. The government has presented a climate policy action plan, but it has been condemned by the Climate Policy Council on the grounds that the plan is not a plan but rather an action plan containing further investigations. Last week, the Minister for Infrastructure presented the Infrastructure Bill, which is a proposal on infrastructure investments for the next twelve years and the guiding principles for this work. Neither can we see that our climate target for the transport sector has been fully implemented, but it is an infrastructure proposal based on forecasts of increased travel, including an increase of 27% by road to 2040. Instead, we should have a policy of reducing driving and, overall, more efficient travel so that emissions can be reduced quickly. In other words, we need to work towards a transport-efficient society where our climate goal is achieved. We need to plan and build our cities and communities not on the basis of the needs of the car but on the basis of people's needs. In particular, cities should be able to walk and cycle easily and safely. We need to invest more in public transport. One issue raised in this report is the problem of parking standards in the construction of new homes and the fact that it relates to how many cars can be parked for each apartment being built. Rather, we should have once-bicycling and public transport standards when planning new cities. Shared cars are another important issue raised in this report. If car pools and car sharing services are to fully reach the potential they have, we need to make it easier to park cars from car pools and shared cars in the municipal space. Perhaps we also need to ensure that you can have a lower parking fee for those vehicles. In short, there is a great deal that needs to be done. Madam President, I would like I mentioned that emissions from the transport sector had decreased by only 2% in 2019. But in 2020, last year, something happened. Then emissions were reduced about as much as necessary. They decreased by 9 percentage points in 2020. Car travel went down by as much as 10 percent. Of course, it has to do with the fact that there is a pandemic going on. The pandemic is terrible in many ways. But it is also an opportunity to change behaviour, to transform our societies and to build precisely the transport-efficient and climate-smart society. In the book that I hold my hand and called Pandemin as an opportunity – the reboot becomes sustainable and fair, lots of examples of how people around the world have used the behavioural changes that have occurred during the pandemic to build more sustainable societies. For example, Paris will now remove 70% of the parking spaces and convert them into pedestrian and cycle paths and green areas. London has set up what is called the world's largest car-free zone. Barcelona builds residential blocks that are completely free of motorism. SEK 10 billion has been invested in the development of infrastructure for cycling around European cities, says the book. I know that very well, because it is I who have written the book Pandemin as an opportunity – the reboot will be sustainable and fair. It has been available since yesterday in a bookstore near you. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I do not see an active policy from the S-MP government to take advantage of the changing behaviour that the pandemic has brought. I would like to ask the members of the Social Democrats and the Green Party what measures this government has actually taken to ensure that, in the light of the changing patterns of behaviour that the pandemic has brought about, we can build more sustainable cities with reduced emissions. The report deals with very important issues of vehicle inspection. I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation number 19. The vehicle inspection is important to ensure that our vehicles are safe but also that they do not emit more particles, exhaust gases and other things than they need to do. We know that many of these problems can be picked up at the time of the vehicle inspection. That is why I am concerned, Madam President, that the Government allowed the Transport Agency to bring forward amended regulations for vehicle inspection. The regulations developed in 2018 meant a severe deterioration from an environmental point of view, at least in three areas. Firstly, the levels of particulate emission controls have been significantly reduced during vehicle inspection. Nowadays, particulate emissions are only measured against higher and general limits, not against specific values for each car model, so-called sign values. Secondly, checks on the vehicle OBD system are no longer carried out. Thirdly, diesel cars older than 20 years are exempted from detailed exhaust gas measurement. The new regulations have led to Sweden slipping at the bottom of the EU countries in terms of setting environmental requirements for vehicle inspection. We can also see that the number of cars rejected for environmental reasons has fallen sharply since the new regulations were issued. This has led to a halving of petrol cars, and the number of diesel cars failing for environmental reasons has fallen by over 300%. I wonder how the Social Democrats and the Green Party might think it is a good order. How can you allow this? The Left Party proposes that the Swedish Transport Agency must immediately be tasked with developing new regulations for vehicle inspection with higher environmental requirements than those currently in place. You could look at Germany and the work they have done. They have increased their environmental requirements, not lowered them. Madam President, I would like Finally, as far as the inspection of cars is concerned, there is also no specific check on rechargeable vehicles. Isn't that a little strange? One third of all new cars sold in Sweden last year were rechargeable vehicles, pure electric cars or charging hybrids. However, there are no specific controls regarding battery, charging cable, connectors and other items specific to a rechargeable vehicle. Here we could look at Norway. They introduced such a regulatory framework years ago. Of course we need to do something similar here in Sweden. That is why we in the Left Party want the regulations for vehicle inspection to also take into account rechargeable vehicles. I request the approval of reservation 19.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-294	Madam President, I would like This debate is about roads and vehicle issues. It will largely land in the shortcomings that exist, what the government should have done for them and what demands the parliament has actually made on the government. Unfortunately, Parliament's announcements have only been placed in some desk drawer at Rosenbad. Sweden depends on trucks to be able to work. It is no coincidence that two of the world's largest truck manufacturers are here in Sweden. There is a clear majority in the Swedish Parliament to speed up the development with longer and heavier trucks. Already 2014/ 15 a decision was taken on a notice on longer and heavier trucks. A further notice to facilitate longer and heavier trucks was adopted in 2016/17. What happened? Yes, Finland has increased its vehicle weight to 76 tonnes, while Sweden and this government continue to investigate the issue. And it's going very slowly. Unfortunately, the decision is in some box on Rosenbad. Madam President, I would like The fact that this government takes so lightly the Riksdag's decisions and announcements is serious, really serious. If the government wants people and companies in Sweden to comply with laws and regulations and parliamentary decisions, the government itself should set an example and implement what the Riksdag has decided on. The fact that it takes a certain amount of time to investigate and come up with proposals probably makes most people understand. But we stand here year after year, and the Social Democratic Government has still not implemented what is expressed in the announcements that were decided five or seven years ago. That is totally unacceptable. The fact that the issue of bearing capacity and roads for heavier and longer vehicles have not gone further is quite embarrassing for this government. Madam President, I would like Another issue raised in this report is the electrification of the vehicle fleet and the availability of charging infrastructure. In order to cope with the transition to fossil-free, the alternatives must work. The Social Democratic Government of Sweden has the task of ensuring that we have enough electricity, that we have a functioning electricity grid and that in cities and along our roads there are charging poles that can actually deliver enough electricity. But what has happened to this alleged environmentally friendly government and its work on it during these seven years? Environmentally friendly nuclear power has been shut down, which has created a shortage of electricity in southern Sweden. There is still nothing to be done about the long investigation periods of up to ten years in order to develop new, higher-capacity lines. In addition, plans should have been made for more ground cable and reduced the number of overhead lines. Ownership should have been strengthened and planning for new pipelines without running over the country's private landowners. Moreover, the strange thing is that the government is planning to protect its own reserves by not pulling the pipelines there, but rather pulling them on private land. Madam President, I would like The government's policy is currently hindering the rapid electrification of the vehicle fleet. The slow pace of the government's work does not belong in a world with a much higher pace. Closing nuclear power prematurely when we need it at its best wasn't very smart. The government should develop a new accepted legislation that allows for better and faster drawing of lead streets and reducing the intrusion of landowners with more ground lines, but also better compensation for those affected. Sweden has large state reserves and large state forests. They can of course be a good start when new lines are to be drawn across Sweden. But earth pipes too must be used more than air lines today. Sweden needs more electricity, a better electricity grid and a government that ensures that this is delivered. Madam President, I would like Now it is time for the government to stop sitting on its hands and ensure that the charging infrastructure is expanded and meets the needs, otherwise the government's weak work pace will be the one that slows down the development of both heavy and longer vehicles as well as electrification for new electric vehicles. Sweden also urgently needs more pilot projects for both electric roads, new electricity infrastructure and self-driving vehicles. It is important that the Swedish automotive industry can test, test and be involved in the development. The Swedish Government has a great responsibility for this, but here too the work is slow. Instead, the government is engaged in tormenting the country's vehicle owners with new fuel taxes and charges. Sweden is a large country and needs both functioning roads and a functioning vehicle fleet. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, the government's recently submitted infrastructure bill clearly indicates that it does not intend to address the major maintenance needs on the roads. The government intends to continue with too little maintenance and instead devote itself to slowing down the country's roads. Everyone understands that with this government the whole country's road system will continue to deteriorate. This threatens jobs, businesses, rural areas and exports, thereby threatening our common welfare. Madam President, I would like High taxes and bad roads are not a good combination if the whole of Sweden is to live and if companies are to manage to grow in Sweden. It is very bad for the country's competitiveness if transport that has to work does not. This is where the government needs to reconsider. The roads are bad now and, unfortunately, with the government's policy, they will be even worse. Sweden must have navigable roads all the way from the forest to the paper mill or sawmill. We must be able to transport our goods on the roads to and from the shops and businesses, and export products must be delivered to the nearest railway or port for further travel to the world. If this is compromised, Sweden is in trouble. The roads simply have to work, and it is not solved by building expensive and unprofitable high-speed trains. Madam President, I would like Another issue that needs to be raised is the exemptions and permit management for heavy goods vehicles. Dispense management needs to be facilitated and clarified. Today it is extremely cumbersome, and many actors are involved when a heavy crane is to be able to get to its workplace. This toughness complicates, increases and delays renovations and new constructions. If the crane to remove the goods from the trucks and lift the goods into the workplace is not in place, this means unnecessarily long shutdowns, delayed deliveries and increased costs. This is a very unnecessary regulatory problem. The government must actively review this in order to make it easier for heavy lifting cranes and vehicles to carry out their work. In this regard, too, Parliament announced to the government last year, but nothing has still been delivered. Madam President, I would like If you go down in Europe you can see that cars can pull their caravans faster than in Sweden if the owners have inspected their caravan and received a Tempo 100 certificate. This means driving at 100 kilometers per hour with the trailer, making the traffic rhythms better on the roads. In addition, the tractor can more easily choose the right towing gear, which saves on the environment. Sweden is a country with long distances, and many vacations with caravans, not least in these pandemic times. Our neighbours Germany and Denmark have introduced tempo 100. Sweden should also try this to make it easier for its caravan owners and to get better traffic rhythms on our roads. We Moderates want the government to immediately review this and to introduce Tempo 100 also here in Sweden. Unfortunately, the S-led Government rejects this and rejects our proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like Another problem that the government should put more effort into is winter road maintenance. It is flawed on many roads, which is in danger of causing very serious accidents. Many vehicles from abroad come here with too bad tires and with deadly rubber blends in the tires. This makes the tyres very dangerous in cold and slippery road conditions. EU trailers can fold along the way due to weight distribution, poor and faulty tyres and a lack of driver skills. All of this can mean that they lose their grip more easily than other vehicles on our winter roads. It may even be necessary to prohibit these EU trailers under certain winter conditions. This is what the government knows, but nothing is happening. When's the next accident? Madam President, I would like The timing of anti-slip operations must be reviewed, and the salt mixes must be of such quality that they are really useful on the way. Here both the government and the Swedish Transport Administration have a lot to do. If we want electrification to work here in the country, we must ensure that we have electricity in the charging poles and that we have enough electricity. The government needs to review that we have efficient electricity production in Sweden, that the electricity grid is being expanded as soon as possible, that the elladd poles are working and that the electricity capacity is sufficient. The charging must work even when the car is set up at night, not just along the roads. Bet on our roads and rearrange them so that they can handle both heavier and longer trucks! The roads are the country's bloodstream, and we risk that we lose both companies and jobs in Sweden. In addition, the Government must ensure that the measures announced by the Riksdag to the Government are taken. The least you can ask is for the government to comply with Parliament's decisions. Finally, Madam President, I would like the fantasy project of high-speed trains to be completed immediately before it starts to cost money. Instead, more money should be spent on the maintenance and extension of our roads and railways. Finally, I would like to endorse the Moderate reservation 11 on charging infrastructure.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-320	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Sten Bergheden's great commitment to electrification and building both electric roads and better charging infrastructure, but sometimes it sounds a little on him that only motorways can be electrified. I would like to remind you that we have 12 000 kilometres electrified the railway network in our country. It would be nice to see a little greater commitment from the Moderates to the railways in terms of both the expansion of new and the maintenance of existing ones. However, it was not this but charging infrastructure that I wanted to discuss. Sten Bergheden points to the need for state technology-neutral support for expanded charging infrastructure. We have just one today. The state allocates money to other actors to build up charging poles. Overall, I think that's a good thing. What I think is the problem with the support we have today is that the state does not impose any counter-requirements regarding the functionality and usability of the charging infrastructure. For example, for those who are going to charge a car today, there are lots of different apps. There are small trays and systems that you have to be connected to. There is no common standard, for the state does not impose such counter-requirements on those who build up the charging infrastructure. When Sten Bergheden puts so much pressure on it that it must be technology neutral, I get a little worried that the Moderates want to continue shoveling out money without counter-requiring that these charging poles will really work. I would like to ask the Moderates: are you prepared to counterclaim when money is paid out for charging infrastructure for it to really work and for there to be a uniform system?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-324	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the questions. First of all, I would like to correct Jens Holm, given that I actually highlighted that we should remove the high-speed train and spend the funds on the maintenance and renovation of our railways and roads. I think Jens Holm can read that in the Minutes. I think it is extremely important that we maintain what we have in order to have a functioning infrastructure before embarking on projects where we have no idea where they will land economically. As far as the second part is concerned, I think we should instead have a discussion on how we ensure that the charging poles actually have electricity. People in this country will of course buy more and more electric cars. Then you expect us to have a government that ensures that they can go to charging poles that are not empty but where there is electricity. This is where the big concern lies. This government has first and foremost shut down electricity generation, which has created a shortage of electricity in southern Sweden. Furthermore, nothing has yet been done about the large cables and wiring that need to be made to make this transition. That is what will be the big problem. I believe that the Swedish people will be in favour of switching to electric cars, but today they are afraid that the infrastructure will not keep up. When it comes to whether or not there should be a way of charging, we have said that the market must solve this under its conditions. I think the most important thing is that we work with the issues on our table: make sure we have electricity, make sure we have electricity lines that work right up to the charging post and make sure that there is electricity in the charging post, which is most important if you are to refuel your car.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-329	Madam President, I would like I think we are very much in agreement that we need electricity and that we need more electricity in Sweden. It is gratifying that the expansion of renewable electricity is growing enormously fast in Sweden now and will continue to do so. Perhaps it should grow even faster, at least in order for us in the Left Party to be really satisfied. But Sten Bergheden chooses to talk about other things. I asked my question because the Moderates had exercised the question. The Moderates, as I understand it, want a new subsidy system for the expansion of charging infrastructure. But there Sten Bergheden says nothing about making demands for these charging poles to work once the state enters with money. Such demands should reasonably be made. The electric motorist should not be forced to bring four different washers and download eight different apps and then see that it still does not work because there is yet another standard that some power company has come up with that they want to use for their electricity poles in their municipality. My simple question, Madam President, is whether the Moderates want there to be a counterclaim for payment systems and usability when government funds are paid out to charging infrastructure. Should the government demand that there be a common standard for this, so that the motorist should not be forced to ride around with eight different apps and four different charging trays?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-332	Madam President, I would like I think the most important thing is that we first and foremost make sure that we have power in the charging post. The second part is that the government and parliament do not have to interfere in all the details of what it should look like in this situation. We ensure that there is power and that there is an infrastructure that works for the charging. If we are going to go in and set different standards for this, then the EU should look further at whether common standards can be found. That is desirable in the long term. But in this situation, it is primarily about getting charging poles out, so that we have charging for the cars that are out there today, before we start making demands on other things that allow progress to be slowed down. We are in favour of investing in more electricity in this country. I think we can switch a lot of solar energy and get it to hydrogen. We make such an effort in Mariestad, and it has worked very well. I also think it can be a guide for further investments in Sweden. But I think we need to start where the problem and the anxiety are and not create new problems until we even know if we have current. If you talk to the car industry and to the people of vehicles today, you hear precisely about the concern that we should not have capacity and not have electricity in the pipelines. It is our responsibility here in Parliament to see to it. This government has done nothing for this. As I said in my main speech, this is what I see as the greatest threat: that we have a shortage of electricity, that we do not have networks that can do this and that we do not get any power in our charging poles. That part should be resolved immediately by the government and the parliament. This is when security is created in that it is possible to switch Sweden to an electrified vehicle fleet.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-335	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 41. Madam President, I would like During the summer of 2018, Trafikverket was able to open a limited part of the road network to a new type of bearing strength class, called BK4. The previous limit was 64 tonnes. Now vehicle combinations with gross weights up to 74 tonnes are allowed to drive on BK4 roads. With the right combination of vehicles and the right axle configuration you can reduce the pressure on the roads and thus generate more environmentally friendly transport than today. It is not always such a combination gets better from an economic perspective, as vehicle construction becomes more expensive. On the other hand, a 74-tonne sekipage is effective from an environmental point of view because it carries more payload. For the Swedish Democrats it is important that as much as possible of the Swedish road network is open to BK4. There are, of course, limitations, such as the fact that some bridges cannot handle a 74-tonne vehicle combination, but otherwise the road network should be open. The introduction of BK4 must be a priority in order to achieve the benefits of this configuration. Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating contains some motions on fossil-free refuelling and electric roads. These exercises have as their starting point to improve our common environment – beautifully so, but to what benefit? It may be a provocative question, but the reality is going in the opposite direction. For a number of years we have seen goods moved from energy efficient full-sized vehicles to smaller and more energy-intensive vehicles. The foreign operators have built up mobile workshops, mobile tyre workshops and mobile filling stations around the country. It is a little strange, because cabotage rules clearly state that it should be a temporary domestic transport in a host Member State. Why build mobile units in Sweden if transport is to be temporary? The phenomenon of mobile workshops and filling stations clearly shows that one is establishing one's business in Sweden. It is therefore not a matter of temporary domestic transport in a host Member State. Although in these Corona times we have seen a slight increase in rail freight transport, the trend in recent years is the opposite. Railway operators experience the same situation as the serious hauliers – they lose transport assignments to the rogue operators in the transport industry. Madam President, I would like What we are seeing is the result of the dismantling of traffic police in recent years and a transport industry left without control and protection from our authorities. Responsibility for the development of rogue and unhealthy activities rests heavily on the government. Inaction has been almost total, and the necessary steps have not been taken to stop this trend. Moving goods from rail or from energy-efficient and environmentally friendly truck transport to small and energy-intensive units is completely backwards. The rules governing cabotage and combined transport are most severely abused by the rogue carriers. Serious companies with high environmental ambitions are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with unsound competition. The country's political leadership is, to say the least, passive in the fight against the criminal activities of the transport industry, and the government is literally on its hands. The bill pays for serious companies and the environment. Madam President, I would like If we are to regain a functioning transport market in which hauliers, railways and shipping can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, the policy must also deliver. We members of the Swedish Parliament can and must create the conditions for serious entrepreneurship. We have a responsibility to take action when we see that criminal activity knocks away the legs of serious companies. The voters, whether they are entrepreneurs or employees, can rightly expect us to act. It is not good enough to push the problems into an investigation, but here we need a strong move. Something is really sick about a transport industry that moves goods from efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles to small and energy-intensive units. If we do not get things together in the transport industry, all the ambitions about fossil-free refuelling and electric roads will remain dreams. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of this year, large parts of Norrland were hit by a heavy snowstorm, and for understandable reasons the snow clearance was heavily strained at that time. At the same time several major roads in Västra Götaland were more or less blocked by vehicles that did not make it. For my part, I was contacted by several truckers and drivers who alerted me about glass-haling roads where it was even difficult to walk. On Facebook, films were posted where the roads were so slippery that you went on the shoes on the ice road. In February, a group was started on Facebook under the name Vägen is our workplace. The group was created because of the increasingly poor maintenance of our winter roads. Professionals carry out important transports where they ensure that industries, hospitals, pharmacies, grocery stores, to name a few, get their transport done. The fact that the maintenance of winter roads has deteriorated significantly over the last ten or fifteen years has been a constant topic of conversation among professional drivers. In a radio input from P4 Gävleborg, a professional driver describes the situation on E4 as a war zone. It is not reasonable for drivers to risk their lives in carrying out their work. Professional drivers ensure that transport that is important for industry and private individuals is delivered. Nor is it reasonable for major transport routes such as European roads, national roads and major county roads to be blocked for several hours due to poor maintenance. Time and again government representatives say that you should stop when the road team is bad. A reasonable follow-up question then becomes: How should deliveries to industries be carried out if poor maintenance constantly stops freight flows? As important as deliveries to industry are supplies of medicines and medical equipment, food, clothing and other necessities. In addition, emergency services, ambulances and police are at risk of being delayed in their important service exercises when maintenance of our roads is inadequate. Bad maintenance of roads risks lives, literally. The Finnish Transport Agency must allocate sufficient resources to ensure the functioning of the country's roads, regardless of the season. It is not acceptable for our roads to lapse and, moreover, for winter roads to have such poor maintenance as we have seen examples of this winter. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to increase investments in road maintenance, summer and winter.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-356	Madam President, I would like It was a little unsolicited commercial mention of a writer as an introduction to the debate. I think the book itself is interesting and there are reasons to read it. It was the chairman of the committee, Jens Holm, who mentioned a book. Madam President, I would like I, too, have written in ours. I have co-authored the infrastructure bill that will soon be dealt with in the Riksdag. It is also worth reading and well written. Madam President, I would like The climate issue is the overriding task of Swedish and global politics and also of the Parliament's Transport Committee here today when we discuss road and vehicle issues. The Center Party is of the opinion that it is possible to combine increased mobility, accessibility, for people and goods with a significantly reduced climate impact. People's need for accessibility, mobility and Sweden as extremely dependent exporting countries' ability to move goods and goods towards an active policy of climate change. It's only a matter of time. It is not the transport itself that is the climate villain. It is the emissions caused by transport that are of concern. Transport work globally and in our country today is a major source of negative climate impacts. Nor is there a single simple solution to how we reposition and take action on this. It is about how we as a country and how we in the world manage the commitments we have committed ourselves to by 2030 and 2045. A wide range of solutions and different technologies are needed to achieve this. The need for efficient and fast transport solutions is constantly increasing, not least in the wake of the fact that the fifth mode, the digital mode, has become an increasingly active part of the four traditional modes. We see an e-commerce growing that is an expression of this. Basically, it's very positive. Technology development is fast, often market driven and usually, but not always, leads to increased efficiency and thus increased efficiency in terms of coping with climate benefits, given that it provides the right conditions. Jens Holm raised the issue of vehicle inspection in his speech. It is an example of a regulatory framework in which in recent years we have seen the government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party relaxed by the demands for vehicles in our country. The requirements have been reduced. It is also an influence and an instrument. It's not the market. It was the regulatory system that allowed a more lax attitude to dirty vehicles. It was completely unnecessary, completely against the market and completely against vehicle manufacturers and vehicle owners. Madam President, I would like What we call the public sector in our country – the state itself, the regions and the municipalities – is also by far the largest buyer and customer of passenger and freight transport. If we are to get a good spin on the transformation in our own country, public procurement must take precedence in changing the fleet and fuels. The Center Party believes that all vehicles, transports and orders purchased by the state, regions and municipalities in their own operations or leases should be climate-smart. This will create a market that is also possible for others to move forward on. Electrification has been at the forefront of the discussion. That's one of many ways forward in the transition. But in order for it to be possible to enter that particular road, an expanded charging infrastructure is required. There is no shortage of electricity in this country. There's a lack of charging points. That's the problem. It is the distribution network that is too weak and poor. It is also surrounded by a regulatory framework that prevents us, for example, from using the infrastructure available for lighting points, i.e. road lighting, to charge vehicles at the same time. We ourselves have entangled ourselves in a regulatory framework of applications that makes seemingly quite logical and simple solutions not workable. The Center Party believes in both market and technology development. We want to see new market models emerge that increase the ability to charge their vehicles in different locations, at different charging points and with the help of different operators. Why, then, is it so complicated, as has just been described here in the debate? This is because we have acquired a legal and regulatory framework around this very issue, which prevents, for example, housing associations and communities from acting logically towards their right-of-occupancy owners to expand a charging infrastructure in common parking spaces. Unnecessary and unclear rules are absolutely the last thing that is needed if we are to cope with the transformation of the Swedish fleet of vehicles and road and rail traffic. In front of a vehicle you are also quite fast in need of a parking space. Here, too, existing rules, law and interpretations hinder. It is not possible today, for example, to differentiate a charge for parking according to the environmental characteristics of the vehicle. If we give the municipalities this opportunity, we will have another force that will push and steer in the right direction. This and corresponding changes to existing regulations will pave the way for Sweden to achieve its climate goals, and then both rural and large and small cities can be involved in this through regulatory clearance. Madam President, I would like An ordinary car in Sweden stands still 97 percent of the time available. It is thus used approximately 3 per cent of the time available. It is of course a good deal for the car dealers but a very bad deal for the owner of a car. By sharing the car with others, each can contribute to a more efficient use of the vehicle resource. Car pools are another example of resource use that increases people's mobility and their accessibility to education, the labour market and social contacts. Car pools mean less land and space, and it is an efficient use of resources. But in this area too, the regulatory framework is lagging behind. We have a regulatory framework that does not endorse the sharing economy. If it is the definition of car pool that is missing, then VAT, tax rules and other things to keep up with. The Center Party has therefore put forward concretely in a motion in the report that this too is an area in which we must clear the way for a smarter transition. Madam President, I would like Mobile cranes were highlighted earlier in a speech by Sten Bergheden, with which I can agree. What are mobile cranes? It is a common vehicle in our society that we rarely notice. However, they are an absolute prerequisite for society to function. We rarely notice them because they don't make much noise, but they are heavy and bulky, and they need to arrive on a road network – not infrequently in connection with rapid lifting linked to accidents. The problem for them today is precisely what Bergheden described: a tight regulatory framework with various road keepers who need to give their permission in order to be able to arrive and do the work that is expected. There is an announcement here, and we naturally expect from the Riksdag that the government will clear up this obstacle as quickly as possible. Finally, Madam President, we are talking about winter road maintenance. We're on our way into spring and summer, even if it takes a while. Today, however, the winter roads of some unitedly managed individual roads in our country are under criticism. This is by no means due to the fact that those who are co-owners of road transport and live along the road are cheap or out of fashion or want it this way. This is due to poor procurement of the State Transport Agency historically, especially in northern Sweden. It has messed up the lives of people who live on these roads and who expect emergency services, home care and other things. They cannot participate in joint procurements. In this area, too, the Center Party expects a rapid regulatory clearance from the government. The Center Party obviously supports all its reservations, but in this context calls for the approval of reservation 3, the possibility of fossil-free charging.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-381	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what Anders Åkesson was into: It can be called the fifth mode of transport. That really is something we should invest more in. For this reason, Anders Åkesson has received a mention in my latest book, Pandemin as an opportunity. We also agree on the view of the deterioration that was made regarding the vehicle inspection. Anders Åkesson is absolutely right; this has nothing to do with the market, but this is laxly right through from the government. This means that we are releasing weaker requirements for vehicle inspection so that Sweden is now at the bottom of the EU countries regarding diesel vehicles, particle measurement and other things. That's where we're in complete agreement. With regard to the document that Anders Åkesson has co-authored, we may not be in full agreement. It is the infrastructure bill, which was presented last week. The SEK 799 billion in the bill will not be enough to both build new high-speed rail lines, complete the Norrbotnia railway in time, build double tracks along the Norrland coast and four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala, maintain and upgrade our regional tracks, build extra tracks outside Alingsås and so on. The maintenance debt, at least within the rail system, will not be paid off. The bill has been developed now, as we have completely new climate requirements for the transport sector. In view of this, I would like to ask Anders Åkesson: How has the climate objective for the transport sector been fully implemented in the infrastructure bill?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the mention in Holm's book! It is gratifying, and I am pleased that Jens Holm and therefore, as I see it, also the Left Party now embraces the view that it is worth considering as a fifth mode of transport. It is an exceptionally large problem solver and enabler for a more efficient transport system. Transport efficiency, climate legislation and more are mentioned in numerous places in the infrastructure bill that will soon be dealt with in the Parliament's Transport Committee. There, too, is clearly but not concretely highlighted – because it never does in a bill, and Jens Holm knows this – a very great belief that transport efficiency can also occur for longer and heavier vehicles both on the road and on the rail. This also applies to better and more efficient transhipments between road, maritime and rail in order to use the three main land transport modes in the most efficient way where they are most useful. Whether it's a human being or a package – sometimes the difference is not so great – it's a whole journey from door to door, and it basically always covers a variety of modes of transport. It's a system that has to be connected. Is it enough money with 799 1⁄2 billion? So it's not just 799, it's half a billion more. In addition, there are a number of additional revenues via tolls and other things. That day, Madam President, the sun never rises when Jens Holm will think there is enough money in an infrastructure bill.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-391	Madam President, I would like Yes, that sun, Anders Åkesson, rises every day in Norway, for example. It has allocated NOK 1,200 billion in its infrastructure bill. And it is exactly the same planning period as we have in Sweden. It could also be envisaged to lift the plans for new high-speed trains out of regular planning and do so as a separate loan-financed project. This would free up funds for other important projects under the existing framework, and speed up the construction of the new main routes. It is not proposed in this proposal. Not all details should be included in an infrastructure bill. However, when we have a climate framework in place and this is the first infrastructure bill to be put forward after that, perhaps one should still be prepared to reconsider some old projects that lie within current planning. I am thinking of major motorway projects which cost a great deal of money and which will lead to increased emissions and which are dismissed by our expert authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. One example here in Stockholm is Tvärländen Södertörn. I also think that we may have to lift up the sustainable modes of transport much more clearly than we have done in the past. In fact, I think of one such thing as cycling – I know that both I and Åkesson think it should be a traffic team in itself. However, I do not see any particular priority for the development of bicycle infrastructure. I do not see any indications that the road law is to be changed so that bicycle infrastructure can be built independently of existing car routes etc. I do not see any new financing model alongside the urban agreements, which is completely inadequate. The infrastructure bill is not enough – that is clear. I'd be happy to have Åkesson prove me wrong.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-396	Madam President, I would like In time, we will have a very interesting discussion in this House about the infrastructure bill. After all, it should slowly walk through committees and parliament in order to gain legal force, so that there is a mandate for the government to continue working within the framework of the allocated funds and with the directives that the bill entails. That is how traffic planning is done in our country, Madam President. Every four years, a heavy bill is lifted in the Swedish parliament. It gives a mandate to continue working. The Government gives instructions to the Swedish Transport Administration to produce a concrete proposal for a national plan. In the proposal that is about to be handled, there is a great deal in the field of climate change that is clearly stated. The climate targets are written in and stand firm. They're supposed to control and apply. The question then is how to do this in the most effective way. We will work together with this in the Swedish parliament, in the government, in the municipalities and regions of the country, which have to implement and manage very large parts of this, and also in the Swedish Transport Administration. I also heard an element in today's P1 broadcast where a researcher at the National Road and Traffic Research Institute actually thought that the intentions in the bill were good. Now I can't think of her name, but she was waiting for the concrete. Well, it's coming in the next step. Is 899.5 billion enough? It's less than 1,200 Norwegian. But then one should carry with it that the cost situation is higher in Norway both for topographical and for other reasons. It should also be borne in mind, Madam President, that, during a planning period, some 50 billion of the funds allocated are burning up in uncontrolled cost developments. If we get to grips with it, we have just over 4 billion a year to build cycle paths for, Madam President.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-402	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we support all our reservations, but that for the benefit of time we only ask for reservation 5. Madam President, I would like Sweden aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 30 per cent by 2030. The EU aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030. And our neighbours aim to reduce CO2 emissions by 50 – 55 percent. Let me be clear! There is nothing in government policy that indicates that we will live up to our own goals. Nor is there anything in the government's policy that indicates that we will live up to the objectives of the EU or our neighbours. The reason for this is that the government lets the Green Party govern the whole of environmental policy, and they do not start from reality when they try to solve the problems. For a long time, it has made air transport difficult, made it difficult for road users and talked a lot about shipping but has not made it easier for goods to be transferred to shipping. The only area that has been put into practice is rail. And despite the fact that we have now had a government that invests heavily in rail, we do not see any major changes in the balance between rail and road. Madam President, I would like It is not surprising, as everyone who works with traffic knows that the road is the basic system of the Swedish infrastructure system. Now we are hearing how representatives of the Green Party want to move forward with more punitive measures in the form of higher fuel prices. This will not work either, as citizens will not accept a fuel price of SEK 50 per litre. And no matter what the price, too many people depend on the car to cope with everyday life. The policy of the Green Party is simply unrealistic. Madam President, I would like The road is Sweden's most important transport mode. About 90% of all transport in our country is on the road. Well-developed roads have given all parts of Sweden good conditions to develop, and a functioning road network binds us together as a nation. It is therefore important that we continue to develop our road network. We know that Sweden's population is increasing, which leads to more people using our roads. We also know that new patterns of trade with more online shopping lead to more shorter freight transport. And we see how large investments along the Norrland coast lead to the need for better infrastructure. The road is and will be Sweden's most important transport system for a long time to come. We also know that today's transport system emits large amounts of CO2. By developing a good strategy for environmentally friendly transport, we can continue to benefit from the benefits of the road without damaging our environment. Madam President, I would like Electric roads, car charging poles, truck charging poles, hydrogen stations, biofuels, electricity transmission capacity and more capacity in electricity generation, including nuclear power, are examples of technologies that allow us to develop our roads into an environmentally friendly transport system. In order for this to happen, it is important for the government to focus on new technology but also to review the pump act so that more fuels and electricity become approved fuels within this law. For electric roads, it is important that we quickly get to the Nordic triangle as well as a functioning string along the Norrland coast. Such an investment could have a major impact on CO2 emissions in the automotive sector. Madam President, I would like We believe that economic instruments are needed to encourage people to make good environmental choices. However, it is important that this type of instrument lasts over time so that there are no ethanol initiatives. We also believe that there is a need to review vehicle and fuel taxation, so that we get a new form of taxation that is environmentally friendly, while at the same time catching up with foreign drivers who are actually operating in unfair competition with our Swedish entrepreneurs. We also believe that work on the development of BK4 roads must be speeded up. The Swedish forest industry competes with the Finnish forest industry. If we allow longer and heavier vehicles, we will improve the conditions for our industry. Sweden is a very large country. Cheap and efficient transport is important for us to continue to develop our welfare. Madam President, I would like We see how new technologies are changing conditions in the transport sector. Self-governing vehicles, smaller electric trucks transporting goods in urban areas, drones delivering medicine and packages and vehicle pools will change our transport patterns. However, there is little evidence that new technologies mean fewer transport. On the contrary, most of the time it suggests that the new technology will lead to more transport. We also see new patterns of trade, such as online commerce, changing the need for transport. These are issues that we will have to follow over time. It is also important to take advantage of technology to ensure respect for regulations. Digitized speed signs allow you to change the speed of individual routes based on time of day, weather and traffic intensity, which in itself leads to greater respect for speed limits. Madam President, I would like We have been informed that the new rules for environmental emissions during inspection have deteriorated, which means that we in Sweden have lower requirements for our emissions than the rest of the EU. This is not good, because emissions are damaging both the environment and individuals. Another problem we would like to draw attention to is the criminal use of vehicle goaltenders. In February 2018, the 100 most indebted goalkeepers had a total debt of SEK 367.6 million. At the same time, these 100 debtors were the owners of 25 000 vehicles. We hope that the government will come back with proposals that will slow down this form of crime. Madam President, I would like If I'd been better at singing, I'd have sung the road's praise. Now I'm not very good at taking notes, so I have to be content with travesting the Bible: A good infrastructure is based on working aircraft, shipping, rail and road, and the biggest of them is the way.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-423	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I support all our reservations, but in order to gain time, I am only in favour of reservation 27. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on road and road safety. Sweden, the EU and the whole world are facing their perhaps greatest challenge in modern times: climate change. It is a common challenge that requires cooperation to be resolved. Sweden, as one of the countries best placed to lead the way in the climate transition, must use its combined resources in collaboration to drive development. The Parliament has set climate targets for net zero emissions in 2045. By 2030, emissions from our transport operations will have decreased by 70 per cent compared to 2010. These are truly challenging objectives, and road transport is at the heart of it. They account for more than 90% of the CO2 emissions included in the climate target, so this is where we need to focus if we are to achieve the demanding targets. At the same time, we in the Liberals believe that climate change must take place in a growing economy. Climate change will require new solutions, new technologies and innovations. It requires a good economy and a business community that can afford to change. Our industry must be competitive, and therefore our transport must also be carried out in an efficient manner. One of the policy's most important contributions to climate change is to provide long-term, stable rules of the game so that companies get edge conditions that they can plan for. How do we reach a fossil-free vehicle fleet? Liberals believe that investments in research such as automotive strategic research and innovation, FFI, and collaboration between universities and industry are important pieces of the puzzle. We also believe that the polluter should pay and that, in the event of rapid technological transitions, the state may need to facilitate the transition with time-limited efforts. The single most important measure to achieve climate objectives is electrifying road transport. Globally, a major technological shift is taking place, and Sweden can show that it is possible to change and at the same time have a growing economy. We have about 5 million passenger cars in Sweden. Last year, 2020, 100 000 rechargeable cars were sold, which was a record number. At that rate, it takes 50 years to replace the vehicle fleet. The climate targets give us ten years to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030, while we have 25 years, by 2045, to remove them. This means that we need to push forward in order to be able to replace fossil-powered vehicles more quickly. To get an increased sales of rechargeable cars, we stand behind the bonus – the Malus system. We also want to see an increased focus on climate change in the benefit value system for company cars. Liberals want to further increase the number of charging places at multi-residential buildings and parking spaces for the simple reason that car owners must be able to charge their car where they live – otherwise they do not buy a rechargeable car. We believe that the number of charging places is likely to be a limiting factor for electrification of the fleet of vehicles and thus also for achieving the climate targets. This conversion requires security of supply of electricity. It is not part of this report but perhaps the most complex and important piece of the puzzle to achieve Sweden's climate goals. Nuclear power plays a crucial role here. The life span of a passenger car is on average 17 years, so fossil-free fuels are needed to reduce emissions from today's petrol and diesel cars. The incorporation of fossil-free fuels through the reduction obligation system plays a crucial role here. At the same time, it is important that this is done at a sufficiently high pace and at the same time does not shock fuel prices. The production of fossil-free fuels must match the need. The Liberals initiated the electrification commission whose main purpose is to electrify heavy transport on the road. In the autumn, the Commission will propose an action plan for the implementation of electrification for heavy goods transport. At the same time, an investigation is being carried out into the legal possibilities for the introduction of electric roads. Over the past year, we have fortunately seen several electric trucks coming onto the market. Liberals want to facilitate the development of charging infrastructure at depots and transhipment centres as well as along our roads and therefore follow closely the pilots that we have initiated and that will be implemented in 2021 and 2022. By allowing longer trucks on a larger part of our road network, we could quickly get more efficient transport, less emissions and higher road safety because fewer trucks would then be on our roads. This is happening in Finland with good results, and the Liberals want to make it easier for longer trucks in Sweden too. Large parts of our road network were built over 60 years ago. A neglected maintenance means that large parts of our road network need to be upgraded. This applies not least to the possibility of allowing heavy goods vehicles on a larger part of our road network. Transport must work all the way from start to destination. The bearing capacity of roads is also of great importance for mobile cranes, an important function not least in construction. The Finnish Transport Agency should also be able to offer support to municipalities with the permit processes. Like my colleagues Jens Holm and Anders Åkesson, I would like to highlight how the government has reduced the emission control requirements at the inspection. Instead, we need to increase the emission requirements so that Sweden can demonstrate in a credible way that we are checking that the emissions of vehicles are within the emission limits of cars. It is important that the State continues to provide significant support to the owners of individual roads so that the road standard can be maintained. It is important that the road network works throughout the country, all the way to the smaller roads. The conversion of a public road into a single road must not mean that the costs incurred by the State are passed on to the owners of the roads. Everyone should be able to move in public places regardless of functional variation. I believe that the government must ensure that measures are taken to ensure the accessibility of people with reduced vision in transport. Madam President, I would like For most people, self-driving cars feel like pure science fiction, such as a driverless car picking you up in the morning at your home and driving you to public transport. The technology is not yet fully developed, but most vehicle manufacturers are developing the technology at a rapid pace. And in the United States tests are already being carried out with driverless taxis. Self-driving cars can revolutionize the way goods and people are transported. It also means that they will change how we build and design roads and urban areas. A gradual introduction of self-driving cars requires political decisions that make it possible to carry out large-scale tests in a real environment through the collaboration of various social actors. In 2015, a comprehensive report was produced on the introduction of self-driving vehicles in Sweden. However, as a platform, I believe that the government should develop a strategy and an action plan for how self-driving cars should be introduced into society. Against this background, I would like to endorse Amendment No 27.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-444	Madam President, I would like We are debating today's report TU9 on road and vehicle issues with a total of 190 requests from the general exercise period. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. The report concerns, as we have heard before, everything from automation, winter maintenance, individual roads, the engine lobby, car pools and a fossil-free vehicle fleet to heavier and longer vehicles and so on. Madam President, I would like The government has a clear goal that Sweden will become the first fossil-free welfare country. It is about building an equal and sustainable country from Haparanda in the north to Ystad in the south. Much of the work on reducing total emissions so that we actually reach net zero in 2045 must be done in the area of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and not least in the area we are debating today, namely road and vehicles. The transport sector accounts for nearly one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions, and the transformation of the transport system is therefore also central if the long-term climate targets are to be met. Through the 2020 budget proposal, the 2030 climate target for domestic transport became a milestone in transport policy objectives. The transformation and sustainability of road traffic is important in order to cope with the transformation and build Sweden as a whole strongly for the future. We need to change our behaviour in how we move, and in large parts of the country much of the road traffic needs to be shifted to, for example, rail and shipping. But in other parts of the country we know that the roads are the only way to get to work, school and leisure activities and not least for the goods. We must see these differences and plan the infrastructure on the basis of the different conditions that exist in our country. So we can live and live both in the city and in the countryside and at the same time be part of the transition. Madam President, I would like In view of the fact that climate change must be possible throughout the country, I would therefore like to pay particular attention to the work on electrification and electric roads, which is part of the report. As we heard earlier, the work of the Commission is now in full swing. The Commission shall be an advisory body for the ongoing exchange of experience between the Government and representatives of, for example, industry, stakeholder organisations, research institutes, higher education institutions and universities, and not least municipalities and regions. We Social Democrats give priority to a modern, fair and sustainable transport policy that contributes both to climate change and to strengthening competitiveness. But in order to do that, we in Sweden need to do what we do best, namely work together. Not least politics and the business community need to hook their arm even more in order for the transition to go faster. Both Fossil-free Sweden and the Commission's work are good examples of how we work together in practice to speed up the transition and make use of everyone's skills. In the autumn of 2020, the Government also appointed a special investigator to analyse and propose how the regulation of electrical roads can be designed and how the operation and maintenance of electrical roads can be financed. I would also like to mention that the experimental activities already carried out, and to be carried out, in various places in the country with regard to electric roads are important. Last autumn, for example, I was able to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure to my own hometown of Lund, where another electric road project is currently under way. Nationally, we have also started work on an electrification strategy, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year. The strategy aims to take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector in order to enable increased electrification. It is clear that we must continue to promote this development so that we can move from attempts to fully-fledged infrastructure. Madam President, I would like The government's focus is clear. We are working on all fronts to ensure that the transition work can be speeded up. Electrification is one of several important parts. With regard to the part of the report relating to a fossil-free vehicle fleet, I would also like to mention that the March report of the Climate Policy Council this year states that transport emissions must be reduced by at least 8% per year in order for the domestic transport target to be met by 2030. To do this, we need to build a functioning infrastructure with electricity along our roads, charging stations and fuel filling stations such as biogas and hydrogen. It is about infrastructure for fossil-free alternatives to work and how heavy vehicles are transported throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Another important perspective in terms of the climate challenge and Sweden's competitiveness is the work on the national freight transport strategy that the government delivered during the previous period and also the decision on a higher load class of 74 tonnes. At the moment, the road network for the BK4 bearing strength class is being built step by step. I would like to emphasise that 74 tonnes of bearing capacity is good for industry, the climate and the environment, but they also help to make the transport system more efficient. I would also like to mention that the work on improving the conditions for individual roads is important throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Without pre-empting the debate on the infrastructure bill, I would also like to say how pleased it is that within the framework of the new proposal, an economic framework is proposed which provides for increased opportunities to strengthen road maintenance, which is needed to meet the needs of both high-traffic and low-traffic roads. This will create the conditions for a high level of road network standards and reliability. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight the problem of car keepers, which is dealt with in the report. It is therefore a question of persons without assets who can be registered as owners of vehicles instead of the real owner of the vehicle. This costs the government billions while the vehicles are being used in criminal activities. In order to curb the presence of car goalkeepers, the Government appointed an investigation in autumn 2019 to review existing regulations and propose measures. I note that the investigation has now been consulted, and we look forward to it being able to land in measures that stop this illegal activity. Madam President, I would like Now we must continue to do everything we can to combat the pandemic, and we must create a better society after the Corona. We Social Democrats are in favour of a policy that takes responsibility for the climate, industry and competitiveness. But we also take responsibility for jobs, road safety and not least for the whole country to live.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-460	Madam President, I would like I was waiting for Elin Gustafsson to take up the vehicle inspection, because it is an important part of this report. There are several parties that have raised the deeply problematic fact that in May 2018 the Government allowed the Swedish Transport Agency to lower the standards for environmental control during the vehicle inspection. Now only half as many petrol cars fail at such a check, and only one third as many diesel cars fail for environmental reasons during the vehicle inspection. You measure particle emissions much worse. Older diesel cars are excluded. It is no longer related to the vehicle OBD system. These are three concrete examples. At the same time, we see that other countries in Europe have increased environmental requirements during vehicle inspections. I would like to ask Elin Gustafsson the following: How could it be like this? How could Sweden become one of the worst countries in terms of environmental control during vehicle inspection, and when does the Government give the Swedish Transport Agency a mandate to develop new rules so that we get the best possible environmental control during vehicle inspection? For that we will have in Sweden.
i-S3ar34M7PzMWvy9XxU2u4u	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! I tried to be very clear in my speech about all the different measures that the government is taking to help us make a more rapid transition. There is no doubt that the government has a clear focus on us becoming the first fossil-free welfare country. In the area by area, we are going to move towards helping to make the transition faster and that more actors are involved in it. Of course, we should also have regulations that help make it easier to be part of this transition. There is work going on to make the inspection more accurate, but also legally certain. Of course, we should have regulations that do not make it more difficult for people in our country to contribute to the transition. I mentioned a number of other measures that we are doing in addition to the inspection that are important to speed up the transition. I would also like to emphasise that Sweden, not least internationally – Jens Holm highlighted the international perspective – has taken the lead shirt when it comes to the green transition, not least in the transport sector. But, of course, we have to make sure that the inspection side keeps up. As I said, there is work going on to make it more accurate and legal.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-469	Madam President, I would like It doesn't matter how many times Social Democrats and environmentalists repeat that we should become the world's first fossil-free welfare country, that we should reduce emissions and achieve our climate goals, and so on if we don't act in good faith to achieve it. I don't think you do. The vehicle inspection is a small part of the major environmental and climate work that needs to be done in Sweden. Then it is very surprising that an S-MP government allows reduced environmental requirements instead of increasing environmental requirements in vehicle inspections. I can't get it together. How can we back down when we're about to advance? I don't understand that. Then Elin Gustafsson says that there is work going on. As I understand it, the government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency to review this in a broad sense. However, raising environmental standards in vehicle inspections does not require a large, general assessment. You can start by at least ensuring that we have the requirements that we had before, because they were better. Then, of course, I want us to have higher standards than that, and it is not just us in the Left Party who have raised it. Several other parties in this House have raised it. The vehicle inspection industry has raised it several times and courted us in the Transport Committee. But nothing's happening. When will the government take the initiative to increase environmental requirements in vehicle inspection? I think we should have an answer to that.
i-UBFVvVV9MincdiHBp7v88d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for these additional questions! Nevertheless, I would like to underline what I said in my first reply and also to emphasise that we may have to keep the tone in mind in this debate. Jens Holm says that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government does not seem to be sufficiently careful to bring about a change. It's good that Jens Holm wants more. So do I. We need to move faster, and we need to take the climate threat very seriously here and now. But I think it is unfair for Jens Holm to say that we do not act in good faith to contribute to the transformation when in my speech I have explained, and Jens Holm very well knows, how we in the area by area contribute to Sweden's taking the leadership shirt and with concrete action contributing to the transformation. I was also clear that when it comes to inspection issues, we obviously have to follow them, and of course we have to have rules – generally, not just on the inspection side – that encourage people to want and be able to be part of the transformation. And, as I said, work is under way on the specific issue of inspection to ensure that it is more accurate and more legally secure. I've already explained that to you before. I think, as I said, that Jens Holm is happy to calm the tone a little and admit that it is not that we are doing nothing and that we are not moving forward. We have presented a series of measures that we do, but I hope that together and with common forces we will be able to do even more and that Jens Holm wants to be involved in that work.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-478	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just go where Jens Holm left off. There is little happening on any issue, especially in the effort to reduce road traffic emissions. There is a very simple thing to do to achieve success in this. Several people in this House today have talked about 74 tonnes. One can make transport more efficient by placing more goods on the same transport unit, and then we can allow a gross weight of 74 tonnes. That's great. But the trend goes exactly the other way. If the honourable Member is out on the road looking at the vehicles around, she has surely seen smaller trucks with a small hat on top of the cab. There's a sleeping cabin upstairs. They're called 3.5-toners, these cars. They load somewhere between 800 and 1,000 kilos. Very much of the transport that should reasonably go by rail or on more energy efficient transport is put on these, because here there are no requirements for driving and rest times and no requirements for permits for international traffic. You fly under the radar of the law, and you use this kind of transport because it's cheap. I have been going on about this for almost three years: we need to get to this illegal business and make sure that serious business is able to operate. Then we will also create environmentally friendly transport that complies with the legislation. But the government is passive, and it is an almost coma-like passivity.
i-Sc4FgpCMnBSkkDfPgfhLGu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Morell, for the questions. The concepts do well here when it comes to talking about how the government works. We hear that it is passivity, that we sit on our hands and that we put things into investigations. I would like to underline once again to Thomas Morell what I said in previous debates with the honourable Member: if there is one area in which this government really delivers, it is to ensure that we have fair competition in the field of professional transport and to promote those companies that want to be involved in doing the right thing, stand up for the right conditions and, not least, contribute to the green transition. What I find more interesting is to ask Thomas Morell how the Swedish Democrats want to combat the major and real environmental and climate threats. To point to the government and say that it is doing nothing in the area by area, especially in the field of professional transport, is misleading. That's not true. This government prioritises climate and environment and not least the fairest conditions on our roads. What the Swedish Democrats are obliged to give an answer to is how you as a party view the real threats here and now. Then it is not enough just to say that one should benefit the Swedish haulage companies. We will do the same, and we do, but as a party you are also obliged to give a bigger picture of how you want to face the threats. We do not see this in the policy of the Swedish Democrats. In the area by area, you want to lower your ambitions. You state in your reservation that you want to review the target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. I think the honourable Member should reply to that.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-489	Madam President, I would like Let me start with a correction. I've never accused the government of working. With regard to the transfer of goods, it is important that each tonne is transported in an energy efficient manner. Then we'll reduce emissions. However, when freight transport is moved away from rail and from energy efficient heavy modes of transport such as 64-tonnes and instead is put on vehicles with a gross weight of perhaps 40 tonnes or, at worst, on vehicles with a total weight of 3.5 tonnes, it is clear that it has exactly the opposite effect in terms of environmental work. We want to move the transports to shipping wherever possible. And where shipping cannot take the transports, we want them up by rail. Then there are truck transports, and we need to make them more efficient as much as possible. Then we are talking about 74 tonnes of gross weight. We are also talking about enabling the transition to electrified vehicles. But then there must be charging poles, and the most important thing of all is that there is power connection to the poles, because otherwise they become only decorations. But not in any of these areas does the government manage to get to grips with it. I often talk to my old colleagues on the road. They stop cars and ban them – it's about cars that are brakeless or have bad guides. It is old soot locomotives that are sold out from Sweden or other Nordic countries that have been taken over by others. They are in Euroclasses 3, 4 and 5. It is clear that environmental work is not moving in the right direction. Here the government has a great responsibility. It is too passive in this work.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-494	Madam President, I would like I would just like to emphasise that what the honourable Member is saying on the issue of 74 tonnes and the work that we need to do on our roads is a truth of modification. We build step by step BK4. I also explained this in my speech. We have also provided more resources over the period in terms of road maintenance to ensure that both the high-traffic and the low-traffic road network are strengthened, so that we make it easier for these transports to be more efficient. So Mr Morell does not even have to think about this. I think we can dispel this ambiguity so that there is no ambiguity as to what the government is actually doing. We have done a great deal of work here, and we will continue to do so, just as we have done in the fight against the rogue operators in professional transport. Now it is not commercial traffic that we are debating here, but Thomas Morell knows very well that the government has done a lot of hard work on point-by-point to ensure that we get to the rogue operators. We have also fought against this at European level, as other countries are now opposed to the mobility package. Thomas Morell's party and the government option advocated by Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats certainly do not want that development and ensure that there is order and that controls are actually carried out in a better way. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats are again obliged to respond to how this is to be done in practice. After all, it is we social democrats in government who have contributed to this work. This benefits the Swedish haulage companies, who stand up for order and also want to contribute to the transformation. I think that the Swedish Democrats are again obliged to respond, both in terms of how they view environmental threats and in terms of order and order.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-498	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to correct what Elin Gustafsson said when it comes to controls on our roads. It's about professional traffic, which she just debated with Morell. Get out there and talk to the traffic police! Asking whether the controls are sufficient given the large volume of transport going into and out of the country and the poor trucks and other traffic involved. Where are the alcoboms we decided on an announcement about? They're still not in our ports. There are still onyktra drivers in this country and can cause major accidents with all that that entails. We have had an announcement about this, but nothing is happening. This government is really on its hands. When there's so much to do, wouldn't it be good to start somewhere? After all, we have proposed to extend our road network so that we can cope with heavier and longer lorries. Still going too slow. It is both anti-competitive and environmentally damaging that trucks cannot be loaded sufficiently. My question to Elin Gustafsson is therefore: Does Elin think that the extension of the road system is going fast enough to get heavier trucks? The next question to Elin is about the power grid expansion: What is the government's plan for us to be able to service charging stations and other things with sufficient capacity? When do we have an extended network in the country that will be able to cope with the transition required for the new electric vehicle fleet? Today we have investigation times of up to ten years to develop new power lines. We are sitting here discussing how we can speed up the sale of electric cars, and you are slowing down by not expanding the electricity grid. When do we have the plan and the net ready and in place?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-502	I would remind the honourable Member that we use both the first and last names of our Members.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-503	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Bergheden for the question, but I would like to begin by saying that, under the alliance government, little happened at all with regard to the authorisation of heavier and longer vehicles on our roads. Nor did it open up any more roads for heavier vehicles. Nor did the budget give as much priority as the opposition now claims to do. Once it comes to it, the Moderates are not ready to give priority. It's clear. History has shown us that. What our red-green government does anyway is take responsibility for the road network. I have just explained that the expansion of BK4 is taking place step by step. We have invested in maintenance during the period, and we have now presented further in future infrastructure proposals. But what do the Moderates do? They want to reduce the tax on petrol and expand nuclear power. It does not equip Sweden strongly for the future. Nevertheless, I think that Mrs Bergheden should answer the question when the Moderates want to take overall responsibility for the climate goals that we in Parliament have actually set. In addition, I would like an answer on where you stand in the Moderates with regard to the road wear charge. Recently, the Moderates' traffic policy spokesperson was in debate with the Minister for Infrastructure and gave a very unclear indication of where the Moderates stand on this issue. At least we Social Democrats think it is reasonable that when foreign hauliers drive on our roads they should be involved in paying for the wear and tear that becomes. But since the Moderates, among other things, have so far refused to accept such a fee, we have so far been unable to get such an order in place. Does Sten Bergheden really think that is reasonable? Wouldn't it be good if we could get those charges in and then fund the maintenance?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-508	Madam President, I would like I can see that I did not get an answer when Sweden has an electricity grid that is designed to cope with the switch to electric vehicles that we all want. The government sits on its hands and slows down this development. Elin Gustafsson has an opportunity to answer this. When do we have an expanded electricity grid? We're against the truck tax, Elin Gustafsson. We are opposed to raising taxes on the truck industry, because it hampers the competitiveness of our companies. You have said no to investigating the conditions of competition for Swedish haulage industry. You have Swedish haulage companies pay 1 – 2 SEK more for the fuel in this country, which significantly impairs competitiveness. You have no control on our roads here in Sweden. Anyone can drive in, drive illegally and drive out again without risking going there. You're saying you've got it under control. But you have zero track of the roads, and that is the reason for the great competition. When is the electricity grid expanded, Elin Gustafsson? You are also not putting enough money into the infrastructure bill for the maintenance of our roads and railways. During your time, you have lowered the speed of 125 km of state road, two and a half times back and forth Stockholm – Gothenburg, because you cannot handle maintenance. Now that you are presenting the new infrastructure bill, you are underfunding again by over 30 billion, which will mean that our roads will be even worse and that speed will have to be reduced on even more roads.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-513	Madam President, I would like Again, I note that regardless of whether the Swedish Democrats or the Moderates ask the question, it does not become more true. The government is not sitting on its hands either in environmental work or in order and order on our roads. This is not a commercial traffic debate, but within ten minutes the inquiry announced by the government on the labour inspection will be presented. Sten Bergheden is well aware that we have delivered on a point-by-point basis when it comes to order and order of our roads. Sten Bergheden also knows that it is his party, the Moderates, that has stalled the process that enables us to get more control and order and order on our roads. It is not the Social Democrats who owe the answer there, but the Moderates. Here are the decisions we have taken clearly. So to the power grid. The honourable Member knows very well that we have a good electricity supply in Sweden today. But we also need to ensure that, within the framework of the electrification strategy and the electrification commission, it reaches out to all parts of Sweden, as I explained in my main speech. It is the government's most prioritised work to help the various pieces of the puzzle needed to complete the transition come into place. That is why we have a special order for how we deal with it, not my part in the context of the electrification strategy, so that it just comes out to all parts of our country. The transfer must be speeded up, and such work has been announced by the government. Again: I think it's unserious of the Moderates to just yell at more nuclear power. It is an easy way but not what will solve the challenges we face.
i-Bpuafnm9AD38o95zWWv2MT	Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. I shall begin as I opened the previous debate: I stand here instead of my colleague Emma Berginger, who has a cold and is therefore not in place because of corona restrictions. However, she says that she would have liked to have been here today to take part in this debate. The transport system needs to be changed in order for us to achieve our climate targets. By 2045, Sweden will have achieved net zero emissions, which means that emissions from virtually all sectors must have become zero. Only a few sectors will be able to absorb some form of CCS technology. The transport sector is not one of them. Before that, we shall have reached the 2030 milestone, which says that we will reduce emissions from the transport sector by 70% compared to 2010. The 2020 budget proposal also made the 2030 climate target for domestic transport a milestone in transport policy objectives. To achieve this, transport emissions need to be reduced by 8% per year. It is a challenging goal, and more needs to be done. But with determined and announced policies, we will come a long way. In the short term, the incorporation of sustainable biofuels is an effective tool for reducing emissions of fossil-based carbon dioxide. The share of biofuels increased from 22 to 23 per cent in 2019. The increase is due to the reduction obligation introduced in 2018 and which requires fuel manufacturers to mix biofuels into their products. The Government has now also submitted a proposal to the Riksdag proposing reduction levels by 2030, which will be an important contribution to achieving the goal of reducing emissions from domestic transport by 70 per cent. This summer will also be the result of the government's investigation to look at the phasing out of fossil fuels and the ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars. The investigator will propose a year for when fossil fuels should be fully phased out in Sweden and what measures should be taken in a long-term perspective in order for this to be implemented in the most cost-effective way possible. The investigator will also analyse the conditions for introducing a national ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and analyse how to introduce an EU ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and how to phase out fossil fuels in the EU. In parallel, we see how electrification really takes off. The number of new electric passenger cars doubled in 2019 compared to the previous year, and in the long term biofuels will focus on those parts of transport that are most difficult to switch, such as aviation and maritime transport. There is also a rapid trend towards electrification in road freight transport, which is a good thing. The government is working to develop an electrification strategy, which is expected to be completed as early as this autumn. The government also works with both a climate premium for trucks that drive on sustainable fuels and electricity or just electricity and an extension of the charging infrastructure. The charging infrastructure plays an important role in accelerating electrification of heavy goods vehicles, among other things. For this reason, the budget proposal supports EUR 500 million for 2021 to accelerate the electrification of heavy road transport in the busiest areas. The initiative also includes electrification with hydrogen drive. The support shall include regional electrification pilots, where municipalities and companies establish pilots to electrify regional transport. A significant proportion of truck transport is, in fact, regional. For 2022 it is estimated that SEK 550 million will be added to the purpose, but we can already see that the support has been very requested. The Finnish Transport Agency believes that a stationary charging system provides greater flexibility in terms of infrastructure investments compared to infrastructure linked to a specific road network, i.e. so-called electric roads, as the system can be expanded by charging stations in stages and in the geographical areas where a need exists. Such more locally-grown geographical coverage areas can be built together and expanded over time. The Swedish Transport Agency also points out that rapid battery development has contributed to the assessment that the vehicle fleet that is assumed to be using an electric road is significantly smaller than was estimated just a few years ago. The assessment is that the share of heavy traffic expected to use the electric road has gone from 60 to 80 per cent to just under 25 per cent in 2040 in an extended electric road system. Sweden has come a long way when it comes to developing pilots and tests on electric roads, but in order to ensure that the construction of electric roads does not become a waste of time project, it is important to create a common standard in the EU and to ensure that there are both vehicles on the market and working business models for the road hauliers expected to drive on the roads. Finally, Madam President, if we are to achieve the climate targets, we also need a comprehensive increase in the efficiency of the transport sector. For us in the Green Party, this includes everything from planning society for reduced transport needs and ensuring an infrastructure for digitalisation through broadband to actually having to move more transport to more energy efficient modes of transport such as rail and shipping. In these contexts, longer and heavier trucks are sometimes lifted up as a solution, but we believe that it is a track that leads wrong. We cannot use our scarce infrastructure development and maintenance resources to rebuild already fully functioning roads to cope with heavier trucks. Instead, we need to invest in expanding and maintaining Sweden's existing electric roads, that is, railways.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-535	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that Nicklas Attefjord and I have debated with each other before, but especially in the Västra Götaland region, where we co-operated for a period of time. On that basis, I would like to welcome the honourable Member warmly. It's gonna be fun to talk today. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, just before Christmas, a member of the Green Party declared that the road network was basically completed. Unfortunately, I do not remember the name of the honourable Member, otherwise I would have said so. Here is my question: is it also Mr Nicklas's view that the Swedish road network is in principle complete? Another thing I would like to ask, Madam President, is that the speech landed in the Green Party saying no to heavier and longer lorries on the grounds that it would be costly for infrastructure. It is quite correct that there would be a cost to the infrastructure. The only problem is that the alternative to which we refer, namely the railways, follows specific lines, which is the concept itself. We who advocate heavier and longer vehicles do so mainly because the forest industry has great desire to transport forests out of the forest. Right there is no trace, but it is the roads that allow us to produce the forest. Then it is perfectly possible to transfer it to rail and take the long distances there, but to do this we need investments in the BK4 system so that we get a working system that is connected. I therefore wonder: how does the Green Party view the fact that rail traffic is on track? We also need to get the goods from the forest to the tracks, and then we need better roads.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-540	Madam President, I would like Member Magnus Jacobsson asked me about another Member, unclear who, who has said something about something, at some point. I think it's better to ask that person. It must be more reasonable and easier to do so. As for whether or not the road network is complete, I find it difficult to make an assessment of it, but I do not think so. Various new societies will well be built, and they need to be docked in some way. So, no, I don't share that opinion, whose it is. When it comes to the question of whether it's good for trains to go on tracks, it's great that they do it. And when it comes to needs, I find it difficult to make an assessment. I have not been involved in preparing these questions at all. As the honourable Member knows, and as I said in my speech, I am here to wiggle a little for Emma, who is the one who sits in committee and knows these questions. However, if I am going to speculate or think a little freely, I can say that there is currently a debate about Swedish forestry and how it will be carried out with, for example, large, massive mulch. Such crayons will require many large and heavy transports, but a shift to a more sustainable Swedish forestry may entail other transport needs. I find it difficult to have any idea of this here and now in the speaker's chair, but it was a general thought.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-545	Madam President, I would like I have the greatest respect that Nicklas Attefjord is subscribing. He has said that very clearly. But the question was of a principled nature. After all, there was a Member who stood in the speaker's chair as a representative of the Green Party and said that the Swedish road network was in principle completed. That is why I asked whether Nicklas Attefjord shares this view. It is a bit important for us in the opposition to know whether one of the government parties seriously believes that the road network is complete. I have a different view, namely that the road network must both be developed and expanded. It can be about roads down to Norvik's harbour, about peripherals in Stockholm or about the large, heavy system. On the question of forests, I thank you for your answer. I do not intend to ask the question again, but I have respect for being a substitute.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-548	Madam President, I would like As I said, I still do not know what debate or context it was. I can't even ask the person when I meet the parliamentary group at a later time, so it will be very difficult to have any point of view. But I can say this: I find it very difficult to see that there is a need for new massive motorway projects in this country.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-549	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Nickla's Nicklas a control question. We had a representative up here just recently – Elin Gustafsson from the Social Democrats – who said that the road network for longer and heavier trucks is being expanded. At the same time, Nicklas Attefjord, if I heard correctly, said that one is against continuing to expand and that one does not believe in the idea of having longer and heavier trucks. There are, however, two government parties standing here expressing their views. What line does it really take from the Government Office? Is it Elin Gustafsson's line, or is it the Environmental Party's line that applies when it comes to expanding the road network? It's pretty good if you take the same line in a government when you've taken on the responsibility of running a country. I have another general political question for Mr Nicklas when he is a substitute here today. Is there a further increase in taxes on the truck industry and lorry transport in this country? Are there any further plans to increase charges and taxes for this industry in order to further impair competitiveness vis-à-vis other modes of transport? I would like answers to these questions. What line is there from the government regarding the heavy and longer trucks in our road system?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-552	Madam President, I would like I thank Sten Bergheden for the questions. It is not always easy to come in as a substitute with a little quick jerk. But I can say that the government parties are obviously behind the government's policy. This does not mean that we as individual parties cannot sometimes have different opinions, just as I suppose Sten Bergheden may not like all of Jimmie Åkesson's positions – although you seem to want to form a government in the future and so on. In a parliamentary democracy, different parties have different entrances and do different analyses. Then when you sit and rule together, it is partly a question of compromises and a fruitful and a take on various issues. This is probably also the case in this area.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-554	Madam President, I would like What is interesting is whether the Green Party actually sits and slows down the development of long and heavy transport in our road systems. I get the feeling that this discussion is going on in the government and that this is perhaps the reason why the government does not get the work started but that it simply drags its way. The government does not agree on this either, but lets the Green Party rule that we should not have heavy and longer trucks. Madam President, I would like Nicklas Attefjord is from West Sweden. Then we can discuss an issue that is actually relevant, and it is about the extension of two tracks to from Alingsås down to Gothenburg. This would significantly increase the capacity of the Western Tribal Line by many percent. It would bring the goods down in time, and passenger transport would also arrive on time. It is said that the journey time between Stockholm and Gothenburg could be reduced from three hours to two and a half hours if these 40 km tracks were extended between Alingsås and Gothenburg. At the same time, I know that the Green Party is in favour of building high-speed trains instead, which would affect this expansion. According to your infrastructure proposal, other rail systems and other roads are at risk of standing back to build for unprofitable high-speed trains. Then I would like to ask Nicklas Attefjord a question: what does Nicklas Attefjord think is most important to expand in West Sweden, is it high-speed or is it to ensure that we get up the capacity on the West Main Line according to the wishes of West Sweden?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The answer is really very simple. These things don't stand against each other. It is very important that we get a capacity increase on the Western Main Line. It's a question here and now. Building a new and modern rail system for higher speeds in Sweden is a question of the future. It's just as important. For me, there is no contradiction in that.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-559	Madam President, I would like We are debating today at what level decisions are to be made on issues of transparency in wage setting. The principle of subsidiarity means that questions should be decided by the EU only if the EU has a far better chance of achieving the objective than the Member States have individually. In cases relating to the Swedish labour market, wage setting, regulated minimum wages and so on, we have a strong Swedish position with the social partners working together on these issues. It is a model that we believe that Sweden in all parts should be proud of and protect in its entirety. In recent times, the parties to the Swedish labour market have clearly shown that they are deeply concerned about proposals coming from the EU. They join forces and have repeatedly called on the Government and the Riksdag to vigorously mobilise all the resources available to prevent new directives from being adopted in this area. Madam President, I would like The whole reason why we have this issue at all on the table today and spend time on minimising the risk of damage to the Swedish model is the social pillar that was adopted at the European Summit in Gothenburg in 2017 on the initiative of Stefan Löfven, among others. The fears and criticisms then expressed by the Moderates that this would lead the EU to decide over the Member States on social and domestic labour market issues were dismissed by Stefan Löfven directly. Unfortunately, it is not many times that it feels good to come back and say: What did I say? And in this particular case, I really wish that the Löfven had been right – that the decision on the social pillar and now the consequences one by one of minimum wages, platform work and wage transparency had never taken place. Madam President, I would like The issue today is not really about a yes or a no to wage transparency, it is about whether we in the Swedish Parliament believe that there is someone else at another level far away from Sweden that is better suited and that can achieve better results than the parties on the Swedish labour market when it comes to making decisions that affect our Swedish model. Me and the Moderates don't think so. We believe that we in Sweden have competence in this area and that with the help of the parties, pay surveys, etc., we are already doing work in this area and that a directive does not benefit Swedish citizens. In this way, it should be in our interest – we who have actually gained the citizens' confidence to take the decisions – to do our utmost to ensure that issues in the field of labour market policy, such as minimum wages and current wage transparency, should not belong in the EU but should belong here in Sweden close to those it concerns. Madam President, I would like The objective of the Commission's proposed directive is to ensure the right to equal pay throughout the EU. Of course, we believe that it is important to work with gender equality in general and to combat inappropriate wage differentials. On the other hand, we are absolutely convinced that the Member States themselves know their own country and its conditions most effectively and themselves achieve these objectives with precise measures that suit them. Forced measures that should be the same for all 27 Member States are blunt and certainly not what we think solves any pay gap. Instead, we believe that directives in this area threaten the possibility of individual wage setting based on performance and threaten the relationship between the parties. It also threatens competitiveness, with even more red tape being imposed on our companies. All this is happening without achieving better results. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have relatively small and also steadily decreasing pay differentials between men and women, and we are already carrying out wage surveys. The Swedish National Audit Office carried out an audit in this area and showed that similar decisions have had a limited impact on the pay gap. In that situation, allowing the whole of Europe to do the same without achieving the goal is nothing more than insanity. Instead, we should focus on what really makes a difference. In the Swedish system, we have care for the elderly and childcare facilities to increase the participation of women in the labour market, and this has given rise to substantial delays in the statistics. Exchange of experience is a good thing. Forced regulations in areas that we can and should deal with ourselves are evil. Madam President, I would like The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise warns that the proposed directive would lead to more conflicts in the labour market. At the same time, they believe that directives that try to force the whole of Europe into one form are useless, as the labour market is based on the fact that we are different. We have different history, different traditions and different cultures. The answer, therefore, cannot possibly be a uniform solution for all. Me and the Moderates share the assessment of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Sweden already has a well-functioning ongoing work in an area where the EU wants to lay down binding directives and where we see from experience that this is not the way forward to achieve the goal. I fear the unnecessary administrative burden that companies like Gamiva, PTT and Inpart Trading in Sörmland will be imposed in a situation where they do everything they can to build their business, create jobs and put Sweden on the map. The proposal on binding wage transparency is another example of a Commission proposal that threatens our Swedish model with the social partners and individual wage setting. It means more bureaucracy for our companies. All this happens unless we in the Swedish parliament, its parties, stand up for the Swedish model, stand up for Swedish companies and stand up because we have competence in this area and therefore do not want binding directives from the EU. What we in Sweden and the European Union need right now is certainly not more models or restrictions, but we need full speed forward with tried and tested methods to alleviate the effects of the pandemic and create more jobs, not fewer. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-571	Madam President, I would like So what we are discussing today is the subsidiarity review of the proposal for a directive on wage transparency. On this issue, I think it is important to remember a few things. Firstly, it is important to understand the actual content of the proposal and the risks it entails and not to stare blindly at values that many rightly regard as positively charged, for example, equal pay for equal work, and transparency and so on. Secondly, it is important that we in Parliament actually mark towards a proposal which quite clearly goes beyond what the principle of subsidiarity should allow in this area. The stated objective of the act is to ensure the right to equal pay for equal work or work of equal value between men and women throughout the EU. Of course, no one in this House opposes this ambition, but the mere fact that a purpose is commendable in itself does not mean that it is neither smart nor particularly appropriate to leave the legislation to the European Union. Often it can be just the opposite. First of all, the Member States have come very different stages in terms of equality between men and women, and when we discuss the reasons why we in Sweden may have come a little further than many other EU Member States, we tend to raise things like parental allowance and childcare – quite simple, everyday issues. No one claims that wage transparency in itself would be the reason why we in Sweden have come further than others. If the other Member States want to catch up with Sweden, they can look at what we have done that has actually worked and start at that end. The fact is that even the Commission itself does not say that it is true that it is precisely a lack of wage transparency that is the reason why we have a difference in pay between men and women right now. They say that this may be the case, but the fact that this may be the case is not enough as a reason – one must also be able to show that this is actually the case before the big European legislative apparatus is launched. We should also remember that there is already a piece of legislation in this area, and in addition to that there is a lot of legally non-binding material, so we have already legislated on this. If you look at the material content of the proposal, you can see that there is a risk for the Swedish model of wage setting and for an increased administrative burden for companies, which will have a negative impact on competitiveness. Furthermore, the principle of subsidiarity means that in matters where the EU has shared competence, which means that both Member States and the EU have the right to legislate in this area, the Union can only take action if the objectives of the action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States themselves. Given that the measures that we know actually make a difference on this issue – such as childcare, which I mentioned – lie entirely within national competence, I think we should start there. On the one hand, to highlight Swedish gender equality as a good example in the EU and say, Look at us! Look how well we handle the issue! On the other hand, and say that the Member States cannot deal with this issue and that the EU must therefore step in is simply not logical. One cannot argue that a certain purpose cannot be achieved at national level simply because the Member States do not use the tools that we know actually work. Furthermore, as I said, the Commission itself does not say that it is precisely wage transparency that is certainly the main problem. We have experience of this in Sweden; the Swedish National Audit Office has shown in an audit that the Swedish anti-discrimination legislation's demands for salary mapping have limited opportunities to influence the pay gap between men and women. This can be seen from audit number 16 from 2019. According to the review, the requirements for documented wage mapping have little or no effect on the wage differentials that exist. Just on the basis that I have mentioned now, the subsidiarity requirement should be considered not to be met. The proposal should therefore fall here already. On the political side, the proposal then presents several risks. The accompanying document that we have read openly states that there is no guarantee that the Swedish model is respected. I'll read it in front of you. The proposal explicitly allows Member States to allow the social partners to implement the Directive, provided that it can always be ensured that it has the desired effect. The dual implementation of the various substantive rights and obligations arising from the Directive through collective agreements takes into account the different forms of social dialogue in the Member States, collective bargaining systems and the freedom of action of the social partners. ..................................................... The question is whether it really is. In Sweden, we do not have collective bargaining that is respected by the state provided they have the desired effect. That's not how it works here, and I think it's pretty obvious that Brussels doesn't really understand what partautonomy means in a Swedish context. The proposal also entails an increased administrative burden that can be difficult to understand. For example, to ban employers from asking about an applicant's current salary is to go very far. Then you're down and you're tinkering in details. In addition, several important concepts are given a European legal definition which will then completely overrule any decisions we take in this House. These concepts will also have their real meaning when interpreted by the European Court of Justice, and there is, of course, considerable uncertainty as to what will happen there. Madam President, I would like To sum up, we've been in this situation before. Everyone here remembers the Laval un Partneri case against Building, how surprised many were at the result and what problems came up in the wake of that judgment. There is a clear risk that this instrument will have similar effects. The subsidiarity requirement is not met, and the proposal presents a number of risks to very doubtful benefit. I therefore support the reservation contained in the report.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-587	Madam President, I would like The degree of European friendliness is not measured by how much or little of the power is to be transferred to Brussels. We Christian Democrats are warm supporters of the European Union, but that does not mean that we think the European Union is the right place to solve all the problems. EU policies, like all policies, should be based on respect for the principle of subsidiarity that decisions should be taken at the most appropriate level, as close as possible to the citizens. If the EU is to develop positively and have a high degree of legitimacy on the part of its citizens, the principle of subsidiarity must be applied. Many issues are best dealt with by Member States, municipalities or citizens themselves. The essence of a so-called subsidiarity test, which we are debating here today, is that the EU should take action only when the objective cannot be achieved by the Member States themselves. The reason, of course, is that when there is no added value of legislation at Union level, Member States themselves are best placed to solve a variety of challenges, not least because the best solutions differ from country to country. This directive on greater wage transparency is an example of an issue where additional EU legislation does not create added value. The Christian Democrats believe that the directive is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Madam President, I would like Firstly, we see a number of reasons why the directive will not improve equality or strengthen the right to equal pay for equal work. The fact that we have come a long way in the work on equal pay and that the pay gap between women and men continues to decrease is, among other things, that we have a well-developed child and elderly care and that we have companies competing to be attractive workplaces for both women and men. With this basis, we have seen a reduction in gender segregation in the labour market and a growing gender equality. The directive we are discussing now lacks the potential, as the Commission claims, to remedy the inappropriate wage differentials that still exist. Our Non-Discrimination Act already requires employers to carry out annual wage surveys, and the Swedish National Audit Office's review in 2019 concluded that this requirement had a limited opportunity to influence the pay gap between women and men. Secondly, Madam President, we have reason to fear that this directive does not only lack the potential to improve equality, but may actually lead to a step backwards in the work on equal pay. The directive on wage transparency, like the directive on minimum wages, lacks a fundamental understanding and respect for our Swedish labour market model and wage formation. The detailed requirements of the directive, combined with the uncertainty resulting from the fact that the final interpretation lies with the European Court of Justice, represent a clear threat to our widespread individual wage setting. More than 90% of workers today have more or less individual salaries, and an increased focus in wage setting on factors such as skill and performance has been a contributing factor in reducing the pay gap between women and men. Detail regulation, the reduced predictability and the fact that the directive gives employers a very weak position in the court disputes that the Commission wants to see more of also threaten the competitiveness of our Swedish companies and, by extension, wage developments. The Swedish National Audit Office also concluded in the review in 2019 that the requirements of the Discrimination Act are burdensome for employers. Of course, further demands from Brussels, without any visible gains but with all the greater uncertainty, will cost even more. Thirdly, it is highly unclear whether the directive will actually lead to improvements in other Member States, which, of course, we should also bear in mind. The wide differences between Member States in economic and social conditions, as well as in labour market models and wage setting systems, are one of the reasons why this type of directive with minimum requirements is rarely the right way forward. The differences also mean that many Member States still have to do what Sweden has successfully proven actually reduces the pay gap. It is about investments in parental insurance and childcare, about stimulating businesses and the workplace climate that suits both women and men and that competes to retain both women and men as employees, and about enabling a widespread individual wage setting where factors such as skill and diligence are rewarded. This is the responsibility of each Member State, and this directive does nothing to facilitate such measures. On the contrary, the directive makes it partly impossible for other countries to use the tools we have benefited greatly from in the Swedish work on gender equality. Instead, Madam President, exchange of experience on the measures that actually have a clear impact should be at the heart of the work on gender equality at European level. Finally, Madam President, the directive on wage transparency is at the heart of a major and more problematic trend in which the EU is increasingly striving to regulate the labour markets of the Member States in detail. I can only regret that parties who claim to defend the Swedish model do not share our view that this proposal for a directive violates the principle of subsidiarity. The Christian Democrats will continue to say no to EU proposals that threaten the Swedish model. In view of the fact that this proposal for a directive is directly counterproductive for the work of more equal pay in Sweden, there is no other reasonable way forward than for Parliament to give a reasoned opinion to the EU institutions. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-602	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal not to submit a reasoned opinion and to add it to the file. Today's debate is therefore about Parliament taking a position on whether or not the European Commission's proposal for a directive on binding measures for transparency in wage setting complies with the principle of subsidiarity. What we then need to consider first is whether equal pay is an area in which both the Member States and the EU have the power to take action. The principles of equality and non-discrimination are laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states in Article 157 that each Member State shall ensure that the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value is applied. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also states in Article 23 that equality between men and women must be ensured in all areas, including employment, work and pay. So the answer to the question of shared competence here is undoubtedly yes. Madam President, I would like The second thing we need to consider is whether legislation at European level brings added value, that is, if the objectives can be better achieved by means of a directive. Here we note that in 2006 the EU adopted a directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in employment and that in 2014 the Commission presented a recommendation on transparency in wage setting. Nevertheless, there is still a large pay gap between women and men. In 2017 – 2019, the Commission has worked on an action plan to address the gender pay gap, but after evaluation of the work, has concluded that this has not had the intended effect. According to Eurostat and the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE), the pay gap between women and men in the EU in 2018 was around 14%. Of these, about two thirds are inexplicable, i.e. they remain when other factors are excluded. In some Member States, the pay gap is increasing. The Commission's evaluations have shown that the right to equal pay for equal work is not applied or complied with in practice and that a partial explanation is that many Member States do not have transparency in wage setting. In other words, there is reason to believe that the work done by the Member States is not enough and that common EU legislation can have added value. Finally, we should consider whether the proposal is proportionate, which we believe is conditional on keeping within the limits of the principles and legal basis in question and does not go beyond what is necessary to uphold the fundamental values of the Union in terms of equality and non-discrimination. The unequal labour market in the EU is a major problem, both at individual level and for EU growth. Perhaps the main problem is that family and home responsibilities are unequally distributed and that, together with inadequately extended childcare and care for the elderly, this prevents women from working to the same extent as men. However, this fact cannot be an argument for the fact that it is unproblematic if an employer pays less pay to women than to men for equal or equivalent work or an argument that there is no need for action to detect and remedy such differences. The Member States have, of course, the main responsibility here. However, experience shows that this work is not enough, but that further action is needed to ensure that men's and women's wages are equal for equal work or work of equal value – an obvious starting point for an equal working life. Finally, I would like to point out that it is extremely important for us Social Democrats and for the government that the directive should not be drafted in such a way that the Swedish model on the labour market or the autonomy of the parties is adversely affected. We will of course be watching and working with full force to ensure that this does not happen. However, the drafting of the details of the directive is not what Parliament is today to decide on. In that part, the committee will deliberate with the government on positions in the further negotiations. Today it is simply a matter of subsidiarity examination of the matter, and we believe that the matter does not run counter to the principle of subsidiarity.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-615	Madam President, I would like In life in general, and in politics in particular, it is rarely black or white, although it can be easily perceived when listening to the debates in this House but by all means also outside this house, including on Svenska Dagbladet's editorial page. On the contrary, there are many colors to choose from but above all a wide range of shades of gray. Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that the Center Party does not think that this European directive is needed in a Swedish context. Much of the supposed content of the directive already exists in Swedish legislation. This means that the directive is not immediately as burdensome for us. However, we find it regrettable that Member States are raising issues that they have problems getting through in their countries so that they can hear them at home. European cooperation must not be reduced to such a procedure. But that is exactly what we warned about when the Social Democrats and Stefan Löfven presented the idea of the social pillar of the European Union with noise and noise. We warned with emphasic that it could open up for intervention in the Swedish labour market model. The result is now clear: the European Commission is working on directives in line with directives, including on this but also on the issue of minimum wages. It is a development that should frighten every social democrat deep into the soul. Madam President, I would like If I had been color blind or single-track, I would have, in the light of what I have just described, opposed, as some other parties here, and said flatly no to the directive by means of a mark of subsidiarity as a tool. But I am neither color-blind nor single-track, because it is only the test that is the subject of the debate, not the substance of the directive itself. Let's remember that. Why, then, have I and the Center Party supported something that we fundamentally do not like? That is a fairly legitimate question, I have to admit, but the answer is simple. There is no blocking minority in Europe so that we can stop the directive. On the contrary, a number of countries are actively pushing for the directive to be put in place as soon as possible. I know that because we have set aside time to investigate it in depth. We have spoken with the government, with our MEPs and with experts in Swedish business and SPR. This directive comes, whether we like it or not. The European Commission has a clear competence in the Treaty in this area, especially because it tackles the issue from the point of view of discrimination and gender equality. All this is also clear from the report, despite the fact that some parties choose to close their eyes to it and press their heads against the wall. Madam President, I would like If you want to deliver results, you sometimes have to give up the convenience of sitting in the stands screaming and instead go out on the plane and make sure you score. In this case, we would end up in the gallery and would not be able to influence the content of the directive if we were to say no now. That is why we accept the fact that the directive comes and will do our utmost in the continuing process to make it as good as it can. What the Center Party will pay particular attention to is the fact that the proposal for a directive remains within the limits of the principles and legal basis in question and that it does not go beyond what is necessary to uphold the fundamental values of the Union in terms of equality and non-discrimination. We should also be aware that we should not continue the tradition of gold-plating, that is, over-implementing the directive once it is in place. That is the way we usually do most of the things that the European Union makes up. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to say something about the substance of the matter. I am always just as upset when we discuss the gender pay gap. After all, it is 2020, and we should have solved this issue a long time ago. But the key is not more bureaucracy but that we begin to value women's dominated professions as highly as we value male-dominated occupations. It is not solved by salary surveys or various other EU directives. Here we need to take lead to address the issues in a Swedish context with respect for what our labour market model looks like. That's what the Center Party and I will be working on.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-625	Madam President, I would like Today, we will formally consider whether the Swedish Parliament should consider it incompatible with EU law to produce a directive on transparency in wage setting in order to combat discrimination and move towards the objective of equal pay for men and women within the Union. On this issue, we in the Left Party have come to the same conclusion as the government, i.e. that it does not conflict with the principle of subsidiarity. We have a fundamentally critical attitude towards the European institutions. On the basis of this approach, we have different views on the proposals and initiatives that are being put forward. We know that, in the area of equality and non-discrimination, the EU has a far-reaching right to make proposals, and we do not see that what is outlined here is outside that competence, even though there are questions and concerns in terms of content. However, as the report also points out, it is something that we and others in the committee have expressed in discussions with the government. We would also like to emphasise that what the report says is important, namely that the directive should respect the autonomy of the social partners and that the definition of key concepts should remain with the Member States. It is not a huge or revolutionary proposal that the Commission breathes, it has to be said. It is a matter of some individual rights to access certain information and thus the requirement for employers to produce that information. There are also some wordings that will help to make it possible to obtain compensation in cases where there has been discrimination. We can say from the Swedish side that the individual and legal perspective is absolutely not the only one, nor the most important way of addressing the major social problem of gender inequality in working life. However, it may be important in certain situations to get processes going that can uncover discriminatory practices, thus being one among many tools. I could stay there, but there are some wordings in the reservations of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats – and that is the reasoning that has also come back in the debate – which I think needs comment. At first, it is important to establish that there are significant structural differences in the labour market between men and women also in Sweden, in such a way that women as a group are disadvantaged. Wages are, of course, part of this. We can see that there is a welcome reduction in the wage gap but that it is slow. We also need to be very careful in the discussion that equal pay for equal work is a level to consider, but that there also needs to be an understanding that there are other levels. We have equal pay for similar or equivalent work, which, of course, becomes a more structural issue of job evaluation and wage formation. We can also look at differences in income, we can look at differences in pensions and we can look at differences in working conditions. It is certainly not the case that all of this has to be addressed in a reservation, but the M, SD and KD reservations implicitly touch on many of these problems in a not very trusting way. I also note that the reservation receives support on Svenska Dagbladet's editorial page today with the somewhat surprising entrance that the European Commission would be permeated by gender ideology, which would have been a little fun news to get like this on a Wednesday but unfortunately is not entirely consistent with reality. In the reservation we can read:... It is... above all individual wage setting that benefits women's wage development. This is a rather problematic statement. It is true that the increase in so-called individual wage setting coincides in time with a certain rapprochement of women's and men's wages, but there are several other aspects here. There are many sectors today where individual wage setting is the norm, as part of the collective agreements. Many of those sectors, which are then a little higher on the wage scale, have had a stronger than average wage development. But it is not individuals' successful wage negotiations that have established this development. At best, we can therefore say that this statement is grossly simplified, but I would argue that it is directly misleading. In the reservation you can also read a boot against the Swedish legislation on salary mapping. We have also heard this in the debate here. The Swedish National Audit Office has shown in a review that the Swedish Discrimination Act's demands for salary mapping have a limited opportunity to influence the pay gap between women and men in the labour market. This is a little strange. After all, the purpose of the wage survey has never been to look at the differences between sectors and sectors without providing a tool in the work against wage discrimination against individuals from a rights perspective. Then there are overall effects, but they are of a kind that the Swedish National Audit Office's report does not measure and has not set out to measure either. I can quote the former gender equality ombudsman Lena Svenaeus :中 Basically, salary mapping aims to change cemented norms that underestimate women's work and downgrade typically female work. It is about power and money and then, according to research and proven experience, you can count on resistance. ..................................................... I think it is important to see the reality as it stands, so that such a discussion does not give a misleading picture in several respects. We know that the most important factor in explaining the pay gap between men and women is that men and women simply have different occupations. This is not an end point for an analysis of gender equality, but a starting point, i.e. that men and women have different occupations on a structural level. The fact that these professions involve different levels of pay is not a natural constant, but just one of the many expressions of the gender power regime that characterises our society and, therefore, the labour market. We can see that there is a strong correlation between a high proportion of women in a profession and low pay in that profession. In addition, there can be a very strong link between gender and part-time work, which means that women are much more likely to work part-time than men and have lower incomes. We can also see that the trend in hourly wages is worse where there is more part-time work. At the same time, we know that for LO groups in particular, part-time work is purely involuntary, that is simply not getting higher employment rates, the most common reason for part-time work. But, of course, what is called voluntary part-time work, which involves more women going down working hours to offer unpaid care work, is a structural issue to consider. When this is the case, you can, for example, do as the party leader Ebba Busch of the Christian Democrats and say: a low pension after parental leave, part-time work and a low salary job. Is that inequality? Make other choices, get different results. Or you can choose the alternative to understand how society works and thus realise that this is a very good example of a structural lack of equality. Nor can I fail to note that the parties that now happen to be reserveants in this subsidiarity issue, and then have a lot of legitimate reasons for their position, also happen to be parties that really do not have a very beautiful track record of proposals for national equality-building measures. Most of it has been opposed from that direction and is still so. It concerns the welfare sector and the privatisations that have led to worse conditions for women working there. This applies to labour law, which weakens the trade union movement, which is the main driving force for higher wages and better conditions. This also applies to a number of other proposals which would lead to a reduction in the level of gender equality in practice. It is possible to continue on this track, but I come back here to the formal aspects of the dossier and note that, although we have many views on the European system in general and on what is the best way to tackle gender inequality in the labour market, in the assessment of the current subsidiarity issue, we support the committee's opinion.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-642	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have for a long time seen transparency in wage setting, and the pay gap between men and women has steadily narrowed. Nevertheless, the Institute's recent study shows that the pay gap between women and men is almost 10%. Although women have a higher education than men, they earn an average of $3,700 less a month. Sweden is good at transparency in wage setting, but far from all EU countries it is. 14% – that is the size of the pay gap between women and men on average in the EU, according to Eurostat and EIGE, the European Institute for Gender Equality. Differences between countries are also significant. Moreover, about two thirds of the pay gap at European level cannot be explained, and in some Member States the pay gap increases. Some EU countries' wage transparency measures have proved to be fragmented and rare, although the issue has been on the agenda for a long time and voluntary efforts have been encouraged. When the differences between countries within the internal market are large, there is a risk that companies will have to compete on incomparable conditions. This could hinder the proper functioning of the internal market, which justifies action at EU level. Madam President, I would like In this case, there is already much of what the Commission is expected to propose in Sweden, either in existing law or alternatively in agreement between the social partners. For example, according to the Swedish Discrimination Act, employers must annually make a pay survey to detect, correct and prevent inappropriate pay differences between women and men. Thanks to this and other measures, we have been able to boast of reduced pay differentials in the Swedish labour market. More Member States need to go the same way in order to increase equality within the Union. We believe that the directive that is expected to come is needed. At the same time, we see some problems with it. It should be flexible and less detailed. For example, it is important to ensure the possibility of individual wage setting, to leave definitions of labour law concepts to the Member States and to safeguard the competitiveness and growth capacity of enterprises. The Swedish party model shall also be respected in the event of a possible introduction. This is important in the negotiations that will take place with a view to the adoption of the directive. We have heard in the debate, both here in the Chamber and outside, that the pay gap is relatively small in Sweden and that the directive is therefore not justified. But I would like to remind you that if we put women's pay in relation to men's, women work free of charge from 16.12 p.m. each day while men get paid until 5 p.m. There is still 48 minutes of unpaid work per day on average. And then we have not even counted the unpaid domestic work that women continue to do most of. Although we can be pleased that the wage gap is decreasing, the difference in Sweden between men's and women's income has remained unchanged since the mid-1990s. What we measure and map is visible. It is only when we have identified a problem that we can actually remedy it. And even if we are good in the EU, Sweden still has things to do for economic equality and thus economic freedom for women. More of this is also needed at European level. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-649	Madam President, I would like Almost one in three women in Europe is outside the labour market because she is instead responsible for taking care of her family and caring for you full time. Almost as many women work part-time. Among men, these figures are only 4.2 percent and 8.3 percent respectively. Women who work do so to a greater extent in lower-value jobs, and women who work in the same or equivalent job as a man are paid less. There are several gender equality challenges in Europe and Sweden. The proposal for a directive on binding measures for transparency in wage setting focuses on the last of the problems I mentioned, that is, the problem that when women work in the same job as men, or when they do an equivalent job, they are paid less. Madam President, I would like The question now is: is this an issue in which the European Union should be involved? Three parties, the right-wing Conservatives, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, say no. This is not the first time that these three parties are answering 'no' to the question: are we going to work towards equality, and are we going to take binding measures against discrimination against women? It is obvious from reading the motivation of these parties that they do not have a deeper understanding of the problems of wage discrimination in the labour market that we have in Sweden and in the rest of the European Union. For example, on page 15 of the report, they say that the strongest explanation for the reduction in wage differentials is that gender segregation in the labour market is decreasing, and I would point out, however, that it is an argument against increased wage transparency. However, Madam President, the difference in gender segregation in the labour market does not affect gender discrimination in the same profession. That is the problem we are now discussing. It is clear that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats confuse apples and pears in gender equality policy and choose to say no without making their own proposals. Well, I'm sorry. They're proposing an exchange of experiences sharing good examples. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the only representatives of these parties who are actually still in the Chamber, Sofia Damm of the Christian Democrats, which countries' good experiences in this area are to be discussed. Is it Romania, which has the least difference between professions, that we should learn from? Or is it Estonia, which has a pay gap of 22.7 per cent? Very successful work has been done in several EU countries against wage discrimination in the labour market, but it is clear, Madam President, that there is not enough work being done in any EU Member State. We in the Green Party have several comments on the content of such a directive. But in essence, it is very welcome that this Commission gives a much higher priority to gender issues than the previous one and that we agree together that equal pay is a right for all women in the European Union. Madam President, I would like Getting black and white what it looks like – to get statistics – is the bottom of the successes we have had in Sweden for gender equality. Having the right to know whether or not you have been discriminated against is also the basis for you as an individual to be able to claim your rights. Despite the fact that the content of the directive has not yet been negotiated and that there are some legitimate concerns and many wishes, we in the Green Party believe that it is appropriate for the European Union to engage in this and to draw up binding directives on equal pay throughout the European Union. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-661	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is debating the CU10 report on compensation and insolvency law. Above all, the report deals with various ways of reducing over-indebtedness in our country. It is a fact that virtually all people can become heavily indebted. It may be sickness, divorce or unemployment, or it is simply a result of a lack of knowledge and the lack of tools to create a good economy. We also see that the number of debtors at Kronofogden is decreasing. This is positive, but we are also seeing a worrying development in the increasing number of people under the age of 35 applying for debt adjustment. To counter over-indebtedness, the government has introduced a new debt restructuring law. Through it, the Swedish Enforcement Authority has worked more outreach to inform people about the possibility of debt restructuring. Together with the Swedish Enforcement Authority's new e-service, the law has made it easier to apply for debt restructuring. Statistics show that more and more debtors are applying for and being granted debt restructuring. The time for debt restructuring is now five years, with two months free of payment per year. It is a strong children's perspective that lies behind the two non-payment months. They are important, perhaps especially when the family wants to do some extra. You might want to buy Christmas gifts in December or go on excursions in the summer. In the past, the government has created lower thresholds in order to shorten the debt restructuring period, which may arise in special circumstances. In the bill "Salary foreclosure" and digital applications in the enforcement procedure, the government recently proposed that the amount of debt may be higher if you are part of a family with children. Another worrying development is the increase in consumer loans. This may indicate that there are problems with lack of credit information. As a result, work is under way at the Government Office to review household indebtedness. In the budget proposal for 2020, the government announced its intention to follow up on the implementation of the measures taken by the government to slow down over-indebtedness. Thus, efforts to reduce the number of debtors in Sweden are ongoing. Madam President, I would like The report contains a proposal for an announcement to the government on motions for increased distance measurement for the Kronofogdemyndigheten. It is about the fact that distance measurement should be possible to a greater extent than it is today. The government is invited to consider how a regulation with increased opportunities for distance measurement could be designed. An investigation can also be envisaged to review this. Madam President, I would like In fact, there's already an investigation. It's called a more modern enforcement procedure. I think it might be the most extensive investigation I've been browsing. It is over 1,000 pages and contains lots of suggestions. This study responds, among other things, to the proposal for increased opportunities for distance measurement. It also analyses the requirement that property found by another authority must be taken care of under the authority's regulations in order to be able to measure distance. The investigation is doubtful about this, as it may be perceived as an unlawful investigative measure. This could ultimately risk damaging public confidence in state authorities. Having said that, however, several heavy consultation bodies have expressed a different view. It is therefore something that the government is looking at very carefully. I can inform you that there is intensive work going on at the moment in the Government Office. The main advantage of increased distance measurement is that you can seize the so-called bling and thus reduce the profitability of criminals. Perhaps this could also lead to a reduction in recruitment to criminal gangs. The work that the government is currently carrying out should not be pre-empted. We do not see, therefore, that there is reason to make an announcement today. I believe that anyone listening to this debate can look forward to action and proposals from the government in the near future. That is why we have tabled Amendment No 3, which we are calling for. Madam President, I would like Everyone could be in debt. But that is also something that society must prevent. I have mentioned some measures to reduce over-indebtedness in the country, such as tightening up credit granting so as not to give loans that people cannot repay. Today, the Consumer Ombudsman has the opportunity to stop misleading advertising for quick loans. There is also an interest ceiling for these quick loans. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to tip everyone who listens to this debate and is interested in these issues to stay and listen to the next debate on consumer law. Consumer guidance is a very important pair horse for budget and debt counselling when it comes to curbing over-indebtedness in our country. With this, I would ask you to accept reservation 3.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-673	Madam President, I would like Compensation and insolvency law – the title of the report that we are debating is dry as fun. But behind a dry title is actually hiding something beautiful: the rule that makes us dare to borrow money from and lend money to each other. This means that a debtor can dare to take out a loan without being afraid that the creditor will take everything you own if the payment is late or completely absent. And the creditor dares to lend money without having to worry that the debtor will ignore paying or doing the right thing. Without this legal framework, I think I'd have to put my money in the bank. And the bank would dare to lend to even fewer. Without insolvency law, suppliers would not dare to provide credit. And few, except the really rich, would dare to start a business. That would be the strong one's word that became law. I also believe that this is why many deals in the criminal world are just about unpaid or alleged debts. It's dry as a tinder, but it's also beautiful as a spring day. Madam President, I would like Let me turn to the concrete proposals that we are debating today. The Civil Committee proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government on distance measurement. Distance measurement means that Kronofogden can foreclose property at a distance and is currently allowed only in very specific cases. Today, the Kronofogden can't make distance measurements if the police, for example, search a house or stop a known gang-criminal that has large debts, wears an expensive watch and expensive jewelry or drives an exclusive car. That property can only be foreclosed if the enforcement officer himself is in place. This is sometimes the case, in the case of targeted actions. But it falls on its own absurdity that there should be a bailiff in every patrol car. Both the police and the Kronofogdet have therefore raised the need to amend the legislation, for several reasons. These include the effectiveness of the Enforcement Authority in making foreclosures. The authority itself estimates that distance measurements could be tripled with such a change of law. But it is above all a question of the legitimacy of the rule of law. It is provocative that known criminals can behave with expensive items, even though they are heavily indebted. With such a change of law, the victims of crime are given priority. It is usually from compensation to victims that criminal debts arise. It would also have a preventive effect. If criminals hesitate to display exclusive watches, cars, clothes, or jewelry, they cannot boast of their criminal life - style. And if they cannot boast of their criminal lifestyle, it becomes more difficult to recruit new people into organised crime. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention the other claims made by the Moderates, for which, unfortunately, we do not have a majority in committee. The first of these concerns the enforcement of damages for the benefit of victims. Today, there are only limited possibilities for the enforcement of damages received by someone from the State, for example for detention. This also applies to foreclosure to pay compensation to victims. This means, in practice, that society in the current system considers it a priority that a convicted criminal has the right to compensation over the victim's right to compensation. We believe that this is not a reasonable order. Our second reservation is about budget and debt advice in our municipalities. Providing budget and debt counselling is an obligation for municipalities. But we see that the queue time is usually very long. At the same time, we know that early intervention is important to prevent over-indebtedness. During the time that someone who has fallen into a debt trap has to wait for help, interest rates are literally ticking. We believe that a legal maximum queue time would mean that advice would be more equal throughout the country. Today, the supervisory responsibility for budget and debt counselling lies with the Inspectorate for Health and Social Care, as the matter is regulated by the Social Services Act. We believe that it would be more appropriate for supervisory responsibility to be transferred to the Swedish Consumer Agency. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about company reorganisations. A business reorganisation is a measure aimed at reconstructing a business so that it can survive rather than go bankrupt. It is an important tool for both saving jobs and increasing the possibilities for creditors to recover more from their claims. At the same time, bankruptcies are much more common today than corporate reorganisations. In March 2020 alone, 574 bankruptcies were carried out, compared to 53 corporate reorganisations. Although the issue has been investigated several times, the government has not yet acted. We can assume that many companies that have gone bankrupt over the past year would have been fundamentally viable, but because of the pandemic they have had temporary payment difficulties. If the government had not been so slow in reviewing resolution legislation, many of the companies that have now gone bankrupt might have been reconstructed instead. By then, more jobs could have been saved and greater values preserved. Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 2 and for the committee's other proposals.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-686	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11. Over-indebtedness is a major problem, and a record number of people apply for help with debt management. In the first half of 2020, more than 15 000 people applied for debt restructuring, which is an increase of over 40 per cent compared with the same period last year. Over-indebtedness is not only a problem for the individual and his family but also for society. The costs of over-indebtedness are high, but we also see that mental illness and suicide attempts occur to a much greater extent in people with severe indebtedness. It is therefore important, for a number of reasons, that strong measures are put in place in this area. While many are applying for debt adjustment, many are refused. In order to be granted debt adjustment, the applicant must have such large debts that he or she cannot repay the money in the foreseeable future. 80% of young people applying for debt adjustment are rejected. According to Kronofogden, many young people have misunderstood what debt restructuring means, and there is generally a great deal of ignorance about what to do when incurring debts. Attitudes to debt today are worrying. Many see debt restructuring as some kind of easy way out, and it is easy to joke a little about the people who end up in the Lyxtrap television program. But the fact is that it takes a long series of wrong decisions for quite a long time to get as far as debt restructuring. The starting point should always be that the person who has a debt should do the right thing. Because we should remember that behind any wage or debt adjustment, a number of companies or individuals are waiting for money to which they are legally entitled. Maybe it's a victim waiting for damages. Often it is the authorities who want to collect debts, and then the money is all ours. When a debt adjustment is over, many times you have only paid back a fraction of what you owed from the beginning because most of the debts are written off and never fully repaid. Therefore, debt restructuring should be used restrictively. Instead, improvements are needed, including in the consumer loan market, in order to prevent people from the beginning from falling into unhealthy debt. How, then, do we work preventively with debt? There is, of course, not a single solution to this serious problem, and the Swedish Democrats intend to return to the House in the near future with a comprehensive proposal on what measures we see need to come to reverse the trend and change attitudes towards indebtedness. One step along the way is to make better use of the municipal budget and debt counselling, which municipalities are obliged to offer. However, advice is very different between municipalities, and the queue time can be long. In addition, only one in four people knows that the possibility even exists. Therefore, the government must develop measures to increase information for municipalities and residents on the importance and possibilities of consumer and debt counselling while at the same time introducing a maximum queue time for how long someone should have to wait to get help. It is of the utmost importance that all those in need of advice receive it so that we can prevent the effects of unhealthy indebtedness even before they occur. The person who has a debt should not be able to escape by signing over assets to someone else. The bailiffs do not currently allocate assets which they consider to be too low in relation to costs. As far as cars are concerned, the practice is that no cars with a value of less than SEK 30 000 are foreclosed. This means that a indebted person can own any number of cars with a value of less than $5,000 without anything happening. I don't want this to happen. Of course, it is in the eyes of those who are waiting for money to see that, despite large debts, the debtor owns a lot of cars. The Swedish democrats have proposed a new owner-ownership ban to overcome the problems of car goalkeepers, but also to prevent anyone who is in debt from easily writing new cars on them. This makes the situation of those who want to use the system more difficult. Nor is it reasonable for a debtor who is stopped by the police to keep cars, cash or expensive jewelry. It is therefore a good thing that the committee is now sending a declaration to the government to enable distance measurement in more cases. One should not be able to travel calmly in a car with unpaid debts or use it for criminal purposes, but one should know that the police and the authorities are constantly on the trail. The police must have the authority to intervene against those who do not have honest intentions, and it is time that the government also made it possible. You should not be able to become the owner of several cars or freely walk around with watches and expensive jewelry before you have paid off your debts. Doing the right thing is a fundamental value in our Swedish society and something we must protect.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-701	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I would like to support only reservation 8 which deals with measures to combat over-indebtedness. This report deals with a number of different areas, and I will briefly dwell on three of them: measures against over-indebtedness, the length of the payment plan in the event of debt restructuring and the take-over of vehicle-related debts. If we are to be free and make informed choices, it is a prerequisite that we are not in debt. But if for some reason I have ended up not only in debt but also in over-indebtedness, my freedom is narrowed in quite a bit. There may be many different causes of over-indebtedness, and there is usually a unique history behind each individual case. It can of course be about pure overconsumption, that I have a life and lives that I can't really afford. But it may also be because of circumstances of a more involuntary nature, such as illness, divorce, bankruptcy of my company or unemployment. Very often over-indebtedness affects not only myself but also those around me, my family and my children. If children are included in the picture, the over-indebtedness will have another dimension. Children who grow up in over-indebted families are strongly influenced by this in both the short and long term. The National Board of Health and Welfare describes it as being among the worse in society. Well, that's a nice word from the authority. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party want the government to set up an investigation to develop proposals for support measures for children of over-indebted parents. In spite of this, we believe that the duration of the payment plan in the event of debt restructuring should be reduced to three years from today's five years. Speakers before me have described well how you get into the situation where you get debt adjustment and that it takes quite a long time. Then we mean that you've suffered long enough. We find it hard to see that you're going to drag this out to five years instead of three. Here we would like a change. There is also a thought to look after the children's best interests. In a child's life, five years under this premise is an immensely long time. Then it is better to develop important support measures to ensure that they have a decent life as best they can. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to touch on the subject of taking over vehicle-related debts. The sale of second-hand cars is an area that is unfortunately used for fraud of various kinds. You can control a vehicle's debts via the Swedish Transport Agency's website, but there is a certain backlog. Neither the Swedish Transport Agency nor the Swedish Enforcement Authority can therefore provide a complete picture at the time of purchase. There is therefore a certain delay which puts the buyer of a used car at risk of taking over debts. In the worst case, Kronofogden can use the car to settle debts. It is not reasonable that a buyer who has an honest intention and has tried to check data using the channels that are then perhaps both being snubbed on the car and taking responsibility for debts that he does not know about. That is why, Madam President, we in the Center Party believe that the government should initiate a review of the current regulations in order to increase the safety of the purchase of second-hand cars.
i-HTJUKBfZKXB338UdXPxpc7	Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 9. We have a growing problem with over-indebtedness. It is a problem that affects both individuals and society. At the beginning of last year Svenska Dagbladet published an article series, the Credit War, about companies that have as their business idea to get their customers to trade on credit and live on borrowed money, something that for some ends in total disaster when you don't see any way out anymore. The mountain of debt grows higher and higher and the energy runs out. A life should not have to end at the age of 26 due to loan debts. Over-indebtedness is a major problem. It is a problem for those in debt who have to bear the consequences and a problem for society. These are high costs and risks, but who is responsible for those costs and risks? When customers are stuck in the debt trap, the government guarantees that the loan companies will get the money back. It may even be a business idea for the creditors, according to Kronofogden. If you can get someone to be long-term indebted for a small amount, you can raise interest money for many years. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the Riksdag decided in 2018 to tighten the legislation on quick loans and, among other things, introduce interest ceilings and cost ceilings. That's when the worst of the scars disappeared. Unfortunately, these measures are not sufficient, but more must be done to protect the most vulnerable consumers. Those taking short-term loans are usually families and people with weak finances and lower repayment capacity, which can ultimately lead to a fall in debt and risk falling into over-indebtedness. Over-indebtedness has a high price. Over-indebted persons, for example, have worse health and shorter life expectancy. In addition to the impact on individuals, studies have shown that the cost to society of over-indebtedness can be as high as 30 to 50 billion. In addition, there is a class perspective on the issue. Among those affected by over-indebtedness are, among other things, low-income earners, single people, sick leave and unemployed people over-represented. People who are already struggling because of the decline in welfare, housing shortages and precarious employment are getting even more difficult. Madam President, I would like Today, even heavily indebted people can borrow money because many lenders are careless with the creditworthiness test. The Swedish Consumer Agency has reviewed some 40 companies since 2012. In many cases, the lenders fail to collect data on customers' income and expenses before lending. However, despite the lack of thorough credit assessments, these companies are at little risk, as Kronofogden acts as a guarantor for the loan companies to get their money back even in the case of a careless credit assessment. The Left Party wants lenders who have not made sufficient credit assessments to be forced to take their own financial responsibility in the recovery of their debts. In 2019, more than 95 000 persons were registered as eternal debtors – i.e. in debt for more than 20 years – with the Kronofogden. A quarter of them are people who are still drawn by debt from the crisis of the 1990s. Indebtedness risks becoming a life sentence. Prolonged indebtedness mainly affects those who are already short of money – people with small margins. The cause is often addiction, unemployment, divorce or illness. These can be sudden and unexpected events. There may also be crises in society, such as the financial crisis in the 1990s. Then the big banks were saved, but many people are still drawn by debt after this. Now we have a new crisis because of the Corona virus. We do not want to see a new generation of debtors who, in 30 years' time, have not lost their old debts. Madam President, I would like In the investigation Over-indebtedness in the credit community? it is proposed to introduce a final limitation period such as the one in Finland. This would mean a final limitation period of 15 to 20 years depending on the circumstances and that the debtor will be able to see an end – the debts will not last forever. For example, when you read about Kjell who has been in debt since the beginning of the 90's, you realize that it was a long sentence he received. The house was sold at an executive auction, and there was nothing left but the debts. When interest is placed on the original debt, there is the risk that you will never be free and that you have ultimately paid your original debt but still have to continue paying and paying. I have heard voices from, among other things, the debt collection industry that this would lead to lower payment standards. But living on the poverty line for decades is not a dance on roses. Is the problem perhaps that we have too bad lending standards when loans are distributed to people who are unable to repay them? It's not about people suddenly buying everything they want and then just not paying. It's about getting a second chance to get back into society and be a part of it again. A final limitation period is intended to ensure that those who have lived for a long time with government coercive measures are at least guaranteed that the situation can be resolved eventually and that everything can actually go in the right direction. Madam President, I would like One group that is severely affected by over-indebtedness is children. The Ombudsman for Children has previously criticised the fact that children's rights have not been sufficiently highlighted. Nearly 40 percent of those with debt restructuring have, according to the government investigation, out of the debt trap at home children. Many of these children are denied normal growth. They can't afford football shoes for practice. They can't afford the fee to the music school. Coffee with friends or other leisure activities that cost a few crowns can be a big problem. It's not about Thailand's trips or mop cars. These are small everyday things that are obvious to most of us. Over-indebtedness also increases the risk of mental and physical problems and leads to shorter life expectancy. This in turn risks spilling over on children who are in this situation. Children worry and try to take responsibility for the financial situation. Research has shown that children who grow up under these circumstances are more likely than other children to end up in the same situation in adulthood. It is necessary to highlight the child perspective in a better and clearer way when it comes to over-indebtedness, including in order to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. A proper analysis and improvement should be made for children living with over-indebtedness. Allow children to have only children regardless of parents or debts.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-727	Madam President, I would like Whoever's in debt isn't free. It's a sentence that's etched in my memory. I think there are quite a few citizens who also have it in their memory. It is a philosophical, but also down-to-earth statement, which I would like to say is all too rarely taken very seriously. Municipalities, regions and the state all too often have their pockets on, and loans are quite easy to take. Of course, it is contagious on us citizens who follow the same behaviour. Why wouldn't it? For the vast majority, it's going perfectly well. But for a small part of the population, life crashes with excessive debt, and debt accumulates so much that deleveraging is the only possible way forward. The debt restructuring act introduced in 2016 has made it easier to apply for debt restructuring, and the number of people applying for debt restructuring has also increased. This is, of course, the result of the increase in consumer loans among private individuals. In many cases, an increasing proportion of income goes to interest and amortisation on loans. The development of more and more consumer loans is worrying, and more and more often it may not be fully thought-out loans. It is positive that more debtors are given an opportunity to exit from over-indebtedness and exclusion. One should know that getting debt adjustment is not for anyone, but one has had financial troubles for a long time before being granted debt adjustment. Debt restructuring can often have a vital turn of events for the individual living in over-indebtedness. Once in debt restructuring, we believe that the time of the payment plan during debt restructuring should be as short as possible for the person to be able to return to normal social life. The Swedish Consumer Agency and Kronofogden have pointed out that it is better to have a shorter period of three years, which I think is quite reasonable to take on board. The Road back to over-indebted people proposed a three-year payment plan as a general rule. The government should therefore return to the Riksdag with a bill that means that the payment plan for debt restructuring for private individuals should, as a general rule, be set at three years, and in my opinion, without any payment-free months. I assume that we are not all satisfied with the spread of criminal activity that we have in our elongated country. Criminal activity continues in time and is deepened in many cases for economic reasons. It is simply so that as long as they see it as a lucrative activity and the risk that the business is disrupted or shut down is quite small, the activity continues unhindered. We Christian Democrats believe that criminal activities should be disrupted in all the ways possible. We in the Committee on Civil Liberties have the opportunity to disrupt this activity by allowing distance measurement on more occasions than today. With increased opportunities for remote measurement, the authorities would have a tool against indebted criminals who lack assets on paper but who have assets in practice. In connection with the announcement today, the committee shares the view of the expert authorities that distance measurement should be possible to a greater extent than today. The fact that, as a government party today, we can say no to increasing these opportunities is quite incredible to me. There is an increasing group that lives under difficult economic conditions but does not go to the extreme of debt restructuring. They live with larger debts that they do not see an opportunity to pay off. Under the Prescription Act, a claim is time-barred ten years after its creation, unless the limitation period is interrupted before that date. However, the limitation period is three years for a claim against a consumer. For example, limitation is interrupted by the debtor receiving a written claim or reminder of the claim from the creditor. When the limitation period is interrupted, a new limitation period begins. As you can see, a claim on a private person can live forever if the creditor is alert and reminds at regular intervals. This creates a situation for many and their loved ones that is completely untenable. We believe that setting a limitation period from the outside when it is fixed and by 15 years normally would be a reasonable situation for both the debtor and the creditor where it goes as far as possible for recovery. But an end can also be seen, and the current situation must change for both parties, both the debtor and the creditor. In the report on over-indebtedness in the credit community? the investigation proposed the introduction of a final limitation period for debts. According to the proposal, the limitation period should start to run three months after the payment obligation has been established and is normally proposed to be 15 years. This, I think, is a fairly reasonable way of dealing with that situation for many people. With that, I agree with reservation number 6.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-740	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report CU12 Consumer law. But I would like to turn back the clock to the year 2006. At that time I was 17 years old, and my school had a visit from consumer advisor May Strandberg. May would later win the Consumer Counsellor of the Year award. I will admit that I and my classmates were not over-enthusiastic about the visit of a consumer counselor. But it was not long before May had caught everyone's interest. Someone was a little worried about getting caught with high CSN loans. May explained how CSN loans worked and how the interest rate looked. She also told me that you can take part of CSN loans so that it will not be the same amount in the end. She also talked about how to make a budget, and the companions began to wake up a little bit. Some guys asked what to think about when to buy your first car. May told hair-traveling stories about how people had thought they had bought a car but really only bought a body. She told me how to avoid being cheated. She also had tips on everything from cheap lunch boxes to student economic tips. I know they made my finances when I was a student a lot easier. We learned a lot that day from our consumer advisor May Strandberg. Unfortunately, since that day at Bruksgymnasiet, we have seen a downward trend in consumer guidance. This consumer guidance is crucial for young people to receive school information and not early into debt traps. It is a consumer guide that can help people who do not master the Swedish language to interpret a contract. It is a consumer guide that can show a pensioner how to contest a contract concluded with an unserious telephone salesman. Consumer guidance prevents over-indebtedness, as we have just talked about, but it is now a waste of time. It is important to protect vulnerable consumers. This includes young people, pensioners, people who do not know Swedish so well and also people with functional variations. In Sweden, we must have good legislation that protects our consumers. But we must also have support so that consumers can navigate the difficult consumer landscape in which we live. Furthermore, consumer guidance is an invaluable support for budget and debt counselling in the fight against over-indebtedness. In view of this, the Social Democrats support the announcement today that the government should review how municipal consumer guidance can be strengthened and developed. Madam President, I would like It is important that the government constantly monitors the development of technology and society – this in order to protect consumers in the best possible way. In order to achieve this, there are a lot of different investigations under preparation. One of these is an assignment to analyse questions regarding the written requirement for telephone sales. The question is whether this requirement should be extended to include more goods and services, for example, and the investigator should propose the necessary legislation and present this in a final report by 13 August this year. In view of this work and the fact that we want to wait for this inquiry, I support our reservation 2. Of course, something else that has affected us consumers is the pandemic. There have been reports of everything from increasing gambling addiction to problems when buying puppies. The Coronapandemia led to 57,076 people becoming dog owners in 2020. In Sweden you do not buy a dog in a pet shop, but you buy it from a private person, a breeder. The same goes for horses. But bringing home man's best friend is not the same as buying a toaster or a television set. An animal is a living creature that can get caught when disputes arise between buyers and sellers. There may be disputes about the animal's state of health or abilities. The government has set up an investigation which has presented the report A new law on consumer protection in the case of purchases and certain other agreements. The investigation presents proposals to address this problem, and the government has therefore announced a proposal on the subject in May. Madam President, I would like Consumer law is important. It is important for us to achieve the objectives of sustainable consumption. Consumption shall be economically sustainable for the consumer. We must combat over-indebtedness in society. This also means that we have a climate sustainability. Companies must have rules and incentives to create products that are sustainable, safe and environmentally friendly. I personally believe that the most important thing we can do to achieve this is to extend the reversal of the burden of proof in the case of complaints. It is today six months. After that, the consumer must prove that the goods have not been handled incorrectly or carelessly. The implementation of an EU directive is currently investigating an extension of this reversed burden of proof, which will hopefully come later this spring. We're not gonna toil and throw away. We will buy sustainable products that are nice to both the wallet and the environment. If the product breaks down due to a lack of quality, it must be easy to do the right thing and to complain. A large part of consumer legislation comes into being via the EU. This is a good thing, because we are increasingly acting from other countries. If you shop from the EU, you can be sure that your child's new bath duck does not contain harmful chemicals. In view of what I have said, I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-758	Madam President, I would like What fun with this year's consumer policy debate! Unfortunately, it does not seem that the Minister thinks it is as funny, because she is absent. But she may have other things to do. It may be someone who listens to this debate who can think about what the Swedish Minister for Consumer Affairs is called. It could be interesting. Madam President, I would like After all, we are all consumers, so consumer policy is very important. It affects everyone. We will always buy something, whether it is a commodity or a service. In previous consumer debates, I have highlighted the fact that if you buy a toaster you have a stronger level of consumer protection than if you buy public services. You might think that's a little strange. How is it that the policy has abolished consumer law when you choose school, care for the elderly or some other publicly produced service? You can reflect on that. I think it is very positive that the Supreme Administrative Court recently issued a ruling that drinking water should be considered a product. It's pretty unique. The judgment increases the possibilities for those affected by poor drinking water to receive compensation. In the news article about this, Swedish Water, probably quite correctly, says that this will lead to more expensive water because they need to maintain water networks better. This is, of course, true even when private companies have to budget their goods and services. Every time, for example, we get longer guarantees, stronger complaints or something else, it will make the product or service more expensive. Madam President, I would like Basically, we have freedom of trade in Sweden, and we have freedom of contract. This means, then, that we as consumers have a great responsibility to get involved in different things when we are going to buy something. We Moderates think that read-out consumers are the best thing there is – enlightened consumers who find out what their rights and obligations are. That is why, as my Socialist fellow Member of Parliament, Sanne Lennström, said, it is important with the municipal consumer guidance. It helps consumers. I would recommend to everyone who listens to this debate and who, for example, is going to procure craftsmen or do some major renovation at home to contact the consumer guidance – and to do so before rather than after. It is therefore better to contact it before than after. Municipal consumer guidance is of great importance to many when they are able to get help on the spot. Moreover, if you have language difficulties or something else that makes you have special needs, consumer guidance is even more important. Then I have full respect for the fact that municipalities, which have had a strained situation for many years, must give priority to what is statutory in order to manage their municipal budgets. However, I would like to send a clear signal to Sweden's municipalities: It is an alternative cost to reduce the municipal consumer guidance. There are many studies that have shown that municipalities benefit from having the municipal consumer guidance. Madam President, I would like I am surprised, because we have seen that the Social Democrats do not want written agreements precisely for the telephone sale of lottery tickets. You wonder what it's all about. When the legislation came into being on written contracts for telephone sales – which may have benefited consumers but which may also have caused some problems – lottery sales were specifically excluded. At the same time, a minister, Shekarabi, is running a crusade against gambling companies. But he has not been involved in the issue of lottery sales and the written requirement for telephone sales. This may, of course, be because there are political parties that more or less finance their entire business with revenues from lottery sales. I think it is good to have the announcement that Parliament will decide today and which sends a clear signal to the government: Make demands for written agreements even when selling tickets by telephone! I visited the Swedish Consumer Agency myself a few years ago and listened to some of the calls they had drawn attention to. It was terrible to hear, and I find it very sad that the government has not acted on the matter. I commend our reservation 3. It is about the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises currently have difficulties in asserting their rights against rogue operators, as companies do not have the right to suspend contracts even in trade with other traders. For example, it can be small forest owners who are called up about telephone subscriptions or other things. In this respect, we can see that smaller companies have become more or less unlawful. We have to look at it, and we Moderates want to do that. Another important issue concerns the chains' own branded products, the so-called EMV products. We think it is reasonable for consumers to be enlightened. If it smells like freshly baked bread when you go into a grocery store, you might think: Yes, I buy these freshly baked rolls. And you may do so in the belief that you strengthen the Swedish agricultural landscape. In fact, though, it may be frozen bread that comes from a different country. It's very hard to see it as a consumer. So we want it to be a clearer origin mark. In the same way, it is with restaurants and meat products. We think it should be very clear where the products come from precisely so that consumers can make active choices. Madam President, I would like I will conclude by saying that 50 years ago the Consumer Ombudsman was born. There were a lot of things that happened in the '70s. Of course, the Consumer Agency has an important role not only in strengthening the consumer but also in creating healthy competition between serious companies. There I think the Swedish Consumer Agency has an important role to play. With that, Madam President, I support reservation number 3.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-773	Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse reservation number 5. Consumer policy is an important policy area that affects all people in their everyday lives. It is fundamental that we can feel secure with what we choose to consume and that we know which rules apply both before and after a purchase. In order for us consumers to be able to shop sustainably and choose products that reduce environmental pressures, it is crucial that information is readily available so that we can make informed choices. We need to know what goods contain and where they come from, but also more abstract values, such as wage conditions and working conditions for those who produce them. This is crucial for us to be able to use our important consumer power. Last year, when I stood in this House debating consumer policy, I talked a lot about the exceptions that exist for the sale of lottery tickets and games by political parties with regard to the requirement of writing but also the sale of credit. When the written requirement for telephone sales was introduced in September 2018, an exception was made for lotteries and other gambling services. Already then, the Riksdag announced to the Government that it would begin work to investigate whether the written requirement should also include the sale of tickets. Unfortunately, nothing has happened. The Social Democrats sell lottery tickets. The party earns a lot of money every year from the sale of its A-lotts, which consist of, among other things, the Kombilotteriet and the Dream Travel Lottery as well as various scratch cards. In 2019, sales of lottery tickets were the largest source of income for the Social Democrats. The lot sold lottery tickets for as much as SEK 180 million. It can therefore be understood why the Social Democratic Government has chosen to have an exception to the written requirement for lottery sales and that they did not want to do anything about this despite parliamentary pressure. Phone sales of games and lottery tickets are often intrusive and aggressive. Given the problems of gambling addiction in today's society and the fact that it may be difficult for many to say no to an aggressive and intrusive seller, sales of lottery tickets should of course also be subject to a minimum requirement in writing. Of course, the laws that exist to protect consumers should also apply to political parties. That is why I am pleased that the committee is now in favour of the Swedish Democrats' motion and is sending another announcement to the government on this issue. I hope that the government now listens to the Riksdag and takes hold of this notwithstanding the negative consequences it may have for their own income. Consumer security should not be a game of chance. Madam President, I would like Being a consumer today is not easy. The market has changed. The number of cases is constantly increasing. Local consumer guidance plays an important role here. The national information service Hello consumer is a good first instance, but many times personal contact is needed. These may be complex cases where long contracts are to be reviewed, but they may also involve vulnerable groups in need of additional support. Consumer guides say that about 70 per cent of those seeking personal help locally are older people. There are large differences between municipalities, and what municipal support you can receive as a consumer depends on which side of the municipal border you live. In addition, the government service has led to fewer and fewer municipalities offering consumer guidance. Local consumer guidance can be seen as a pre-filter for debt counselling. For those who get help early with consumption and buying, the risk of over-indebtedness is reduced. However, while support is needed more than ever, the trend is for voluntary consumer guidance to be reduced as a result of the deterioration in local government finances. 112 municipalities, i.e. nearly 40 per cent, currently lack consumer guidance. And the number is rising constantly. We in the Swedish Democrats have pushed forward on this issue, and we are pleased that the committee is now sending out an announcement to the government to look at how the municipal consumer guidance can be strengthened. We must ensure that all consumers have the possibility of equal support, regardless of where they live. Finally, Madam President, the rules on advertising aimed at children must be more stringent than they are today. We will protect vulnerable consumer groups and take extra account when products and services are intended for children. Measures are needed to control legislation and sanctions against companies that break the law. Children spend more and more time in the digital world. A strengthening of the law is needed to ensure consumer protection. Here it is important that Sweden not only defends its right to tougher laws against marketing aimed at children, but also that within the EU it works to ensure that the requirements of this legislation are a minimum level throughout Europe, as markets are now international. As far as children's rights are concerned, we must never compromise.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-784	Madam President, I would like I support all of the Centre Party's reservations in the report, but I would like to call for the approval of reservation 24, which concerns a broad review of consumer law. Consumer law and consumer policy are a subject that concerns all of us. In various forms, we have to comply with laws and regulations in the area of consumer policy – such as consumers, producers and sellers. We have all at some point made a purchase that we have not been completely satisfied with. Either we have simply repented, or we have a bad copy of something. We may have expected it to last years without having to make expensive repairs. Being a conscious consumer is not easy at all times. But if we are to be a little positive, we can still see that there is an increased willingness to make conscious choices and balanced purchases. And many of us feel well that we know what we do when we make purchases based on the economic ability we have and the needs we have. And we basically understand the agreements we enter into. However, consumer policy is also important to protect our weak groups. Strong consumer protection creates incentives for manufacturers to produce products that last longer. The Center Party therefore wants to extend statutory consumer law so that companies have the burden of proof for one year instead of the current six months to show that an error is not an original error. In order to support the re-use and resale of products that the individual no longer needs, we want the right of complaint to comply with the product instead of staying with the original buyer. Product information is sometimes so extensive that it actually becomes difficult to access for the vast majority of us. It may be because of different things. Sometimes it is probably that we do not take the time to read through all the information that is available. Here I would like us to find a few simple markings that show what is essential for this particular group of goods in terms of life expectancy or environmental impact, for example, just to make it easy to do the right thing. Of course, it should always be stated where there is more in-depth information if for some reason I need to search for it. Madam President, I would like We all know someone, or know someone, who has been duped a product or a subscription. Not too rarely comes the offer from an articulate telephone salesman. However, there are two groups that, when they are affected, make me particularly hurt. It's when you go after older people or people who need help making these everyday decisions that you and I can normally make. If this happens to you, you need help. They use a little different approaches. It may be that you sell security services, if I may call it that, where you turn to people and perhaps paint a picture of something that is not really a real problem. A close relative of mine was courted that her social security number was on the Internet and fluttered. Of course she doesn't have a protected identity, so anyone can find her social security number. Then they tried to sell on her a subscription to protect her in this. I get very upset when someone actually tries to lure people into some false danger or false security. Another important issue is how we protect our various payment tools. Today, we have more ways to pay for goods and services than just cash. With the digitization that in many paragraphs is very positive, the risk of fraud also increases in different ways, and if someone accesses one's eID in an unauthorized way, it can have devastating consequences. I therefore think it is very positive that the Committee on Legal Affairs has today dealt with a follow-up motion from the Center Party, in which motionaries Helena Vilhelmsson and Hanne Hervieu point out crimes which are mainly affecting the elderly and which are often based on a very much proposed approach aimed specifically at exploiting the victim's lack of knowledge of IT and non-cash means of payment. A united committee has today supported their request, so that is very positive. According to the Center Party, there is a need to carry out a broader review of the consumer acquis with a view to achieving more coherent consumer legislation. In such a review, it is also possible to take a holistic approach to the issue of company information to the consumer. It is important that the information fulfils its purpose, that it is accessible and that it is not so extensive that it is only printed and approved in, for example, consumer contracts online.
i-TwMuRpCy9ACuCGYvhXEaob	Madam President, I would like I support the Left Party's reservation 27 in the report. Being a consumer is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities, but also pose greater challenges for consumers when goods are purchased from across the border and sometimes from across the world. Despite the high level of consumer protection, consumers are constantly at a disadvantage. This applies both to the choice of products and to disputes. Advanced methods are used to get us people to consume as much as possible. We are daily overwhelmed by advertising, which calls on us to consume more of goods and services. Marketing is often aggressive and often addresses groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. It is therefore important that all consumers throughout Sweden have access to good support. The local consumer guidance is an example of excellent support, and all parties in Parliament seem to agree on this. Local consumer guidance is important and needs to be developed. Madam President, I would like However, local consumer guides are becoming increasingly sparse in the country. Since the start of Hallå konsument in 2015, local support has decreased every year. At the time there was local guidance in 270 of the municipalities. Today, that figure is down to about 200. It's a 25% drop in five years. Only 116 municipalities run this on their own. Many municipalities procure from other municipalities, which for some consumers means very long journeys if you would like to have a physical meeting with a guide. The Swedish Consumer Agency's national service Hallå konsument was not meant to replace the locally based service, but would be a complement. All the working hours of consumer services that have disappeared in the municipalities have not been replaced by as much at Hallå konsument. Now 87 municipalities, almost every third municipality, do not provide this guidance service to their residents. This means that 1.7 million people over the age of 18 have no local access to consumer guidance. It is a bad development that we must break. Madam President, I would like The left party allocated extra money in the autumn budget to the municipalities to give the Swedish population increased access to local consumer guidance. It's needed. Being a consumer is not easy. Three out of four have problems each year with something they bought. It can be broken goods or defective services, and failed purchases cost Swedish consumers 50 billion annually according to the Swedish Consumer Agency. You can also work preventively in a completely different way. With local support, schools can be reached, for example, and help shape and strengthen those consumers who will come to the market in the future and provide them with security and knowledge of their rights and obligations. If you work in a municipality, you also have more knowledge of the local conditions and contacts with the local business community. You have the opportunity to follow up on matters and have regular meetings with those who need support and help. All this work helps to prevent people from ending up in legal conflicts or debt, and in the long run it contributes to a better economy, both for individuals and for municipalities. Madam President, I would like The committee's announcement on local consumer guidance is legitimate but not sufficient. Developing interaction between local actors and consumer guidance at municipal level is a good thing. However, if there is no municipal consumer guidance in place, it will be difficult. That's why you miss the goal when the most important thing is not that there is a local consumer guide for everyone. Statskontoret's report from 2019 states that support in parts of the country has deteriorated for consumers. They believe that legislation on municipal guidance is a way to tackle the problem. As with budgetary and debt counselling, the Left Party believes that the support that can be obtained in consumer matters should be equivalent throughout Sweden. There should be local consumer guidance in all municipalities.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-808	Madam President, I would like Let me read a news item from the Swedish Radio's Ekot website, namely that the Social Democrats' gaming companies sell lottery tickets on credit to debtors. DN reports that the Social Democrats have sold lottery tickets on credit to people in debt. The lotteries have been sold through the gaming company Kombilotteriet. Selling games and lottery tickets on credit is prohibited in Sweden to protect vulnerable groups against indebtedness. The Social Democrats, together with a handful of other actors, have made exceptions to that particular law. There are so many newspaper articles on the same theme. Madam President, I would like I do not doubt the involvement of the Left Party in over-indebted or for consumers, but I am extremely surprised that the Left Party does not join the majority in the committee, to the majority in the Swedish Parliament, who wants to protect people from the telephone sale of tickets – or at least make sure that it becomes a requirement in writing. It would be interesting to know why the Left Party does not want to help bring this particular situation into order. Is the Left Party satisfied that the government is doing nothing in this area? You sit on your hands, you set up investigations and you let time go as much as possible. Why does the Left Party not want to contribute to making it a requirement in writing for the telephone sale of lottery tickets and games to consumers?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-812	Madam President, I would like If Lars Beckman had read the reservation, he would have seen that an investigation will be reported on 13 August 2021. I do not think that the announcement will speed up that investigation or that a new investigation would sprint past it and present a result before the summer. Of course, we want to protect consumers and ensure that consumers are well off and receive equal support everywhere in the world. Then I can take this opportunity to ask Lars Beckman a question. If Lars Beckman protects the local consumer guidance, why does he not want to ensure that the guidance is everywhere in Sweden so that all consumers get good support wherever they live – equal for all people? It's not there. We were alone in the autumn budget to invest money in developing and ensuring that there is more guidance for consumers around the country, and the Moderates invested SEK 0 on it. It was the same with last autumn's budget. At that time, the Moderates were not interested in betting money, but then it was 0 kroner. Once again, we were the only ones to bet the money. If the Moderates are serious about investing in consumers so that they get good support and help wherever they live in the whole country, they are welcome to hang on the Left Party budget. If it's just placard politics you're looking for, then jump on the Social Democrats. Ask my guest! Do it.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-816	Madam President, I would like No, I do not want communism in Sweden, so I will not vote for the Left Party budget. The Social Democrats and their youth associations have been selling lottery tickets since the 1950s. Together they own the economic association A-lotteries, whose income goes to the Social Democrats and is deemed to be extremely important for the Party's activities. Over the past ten years, the Social Democrats have received 500 million – half a billion – from their gambling business. Can we imagine, Madam President, that there are 500 million reasons for the Social Democrats not to want to risk cutting revenue? It's quite possible. But there are things I do not understand, Madam President. I hope Jon Thorbjörnson looks into the camera and explains to the Swedish people why the Left Party does not want order. Why doesn't the Left Party want order? Of course, everyone in this House understands that the Social Democrats are delaying, delaying and delaying the issue depending on the revenue. I've seen Minister Ardalan Shekarabi call press conferences and set up emergency investigations on gaming issues and private gaming companies. But he has not acted at all on the issue of telephone sales of lottery tickets. Could it have to do with 500 million reasons for the Social Democrats and the SSU not to want to regulate the market? I am absolutely convinced that this is because the Social Democrats are so completely terrified of their income. It should not be excluded that that is why Shekarabi calls for a press conference about gambling companies, that is, because you lose revenue from their lottery sales. But this cannot be the interest of the Left Party. The interests of the Left should be a good consumer protection. I don't understand the motives of the Left Party.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-821	Madam President, I would like If Lars Beckman had voted for the Left Party budget, he would have got a very good budget that is willing to invest in consumers and give them more support. But Lars Beckman is more interested in cabbage drinking, I guess. Lars Beckman is talking about half a billion. The money they earn is well over half a billion. Hundreds of billions are disappearing, partly because they do not carry out proper credit checks before lending money. But are the Moderates interested in doing something there? No, there they shine with their absence. What could be the reason for this? Is it because it's companies that support the Moderates? Is that where you get party support? What is it that makes you not want to act there? That's what I call cabbage drinking. Sure! Jump on the Social Democrats and their half billion. Ask my guest! I won't stop you. We're waiting for the investigation to see what it can contribute. In the meantime, various loan companies will lend money to people who should not have money without the Moderates caring for a second by means of poor credit control.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-824	Madam President, I would like Consumer power and freedom of choice are objectives that can only be met within the framework of a market economy. A well-functioning market is the best condition for meeting consumers' wishes for good products at low prices with good service. At the same time, however, a functioning market provides a good framework for both the seller and the consumer. Today's report contains two announcements. That has also been said by previous speakers. The Government should pay particular attention to how telephone sales of lottery tickets and other games to consumers can be subject to a written requirement in order to extend the written requirement for telephone sales. The Government should review how municipal consumer guidance can be strengthened and developed. These are two important announcements that the government should take very seriously and urgently come back on. I am also aware that we have had announcements in the past and that the government has ignored them. Nevertheless, I hope that the government will take these announcements seriously. I turn to the issue of consumer loans. Consumption loans have been under discussion for many years, while household debt is gradually increasing. One reason for the sharp increase that has taken place in recent years is accessibility. Today, not only are there more lenders than ever, but the loans are also more easily accessible than ever before. Finansinspektionen has announced that small account and card credits and invoice purchases have increased even faster, from around SEK 4 billion to more than SEK 50 billion over the past ten years. It's a huge increase. Households with new consumption loans and loans previously pay an average of one quarter of their income in interest and amortisation. If the interest rate increases, they will have to pay an even greater proportion of the income, which is obviously a major problem. The lenders may or do not wish to make adequate assessments of the applicant's finances before granting a loan. Although they are required to make a credit assessment, there is often no overall picture, as there is no obligation for all lenders to report their lending to the credit information companies. The consequence is that people who are already highly indebted borrow too much and are even being actively processed to further indebtedness. The result is the gloomy reading that can be found in the latest statistics update of Kronofogden from February 2. The requirements sent to the agency have since the same time last year increased by 18 percent to approximately SEK 21.7 billion. That is, of course, the highest annual figure ever. The Authority expresses concern that those who already have payment problems are incurring more and larger debts and that the number of cases is increasing among young people. Unfortunately, children are also affected by the increase in debt. In 2019 467 children were affected by executed evictions from dwellings, a figure that increased three years in a row. In an analysis, the Ombudsman for Children has expressed concern that the coronapandemia and its effects on the national economy are in danger of making the situation even worse for these children. The Christian Democrats want to see stricter rules to stem the negative developments that I have now reported. Our neighbours have come further in curbing risky gambling and negative guilt spirals and should be able to serve as inspiration. In order to stop the increase in debt, the Christian Democrats have made a proposal to ban the disbursement of quick loans at night. It is a model that Finland has been using since 2010. For ten years, Kronofogden has pointed out that loans paid out at night are often used for Internet purchases and games. This, together with other proposals, should be agreed on in the future in order to reverse the negative trend. Taking out a loan for a house, a right-of-occupancy or a car is one thing. Taking out loans for consumption alone is more risky, and perhaps a proposal similar to ours could give the consumer more time to think about. At least at night, I don't make my best financial decisions. We are probably many consumers looking at the labels of products we intend to buy. A forest of labels is being met by, and all that is usually the knowledge, both with me and with others, of the different labels far too low and for us as consumers may not even be helpful but only confusing. Eco-labelling and allergy labelling are important tools for consumers to make wise choices of products. Today, however, there is a fragmentation of labels that can lead to confusion and a lack of coherence in the criteria for labelling. That is why we want to see greater standardisation in the labelling of products. I want to see more open dialogue between businesses and consumers and better cooperation between stakeholders. In my opinion, it is particularly important for allergy labelling to be standardised. It is the government's task to address this issue and allow the forest to become just a few trees. I'm in favour of reservation 31.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-838	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I think that we have all happened to make purchases that we regret for various reasons and that wriggle out of the register for nothing. This is particularly serious for people who simply cannot afford it. Actually, of course, it's serious for all of us. I am thinking in particular of vulnerable consumers. It can be older people, young people, people who have problems with language or small economic margins or people with functional variations. We see that almost 400 000 people have debts with the Kronofogden. In addition, of course, there are many people who are struggling with the economy. The Swedish Consumer Agency is now working on behalf of the Government to support various social actors who have the potential to help vulnerable consumers who have a special need for support. As we have heard here before, consumer guidance is very important. Municipalities have compulsory budget and debt counselling, where consumer guidance is, as it were, a communication vessel. It is better to reach consumers early, even before they fall into debt. The personal meeting that can be offered in consumer guidance is very important. Unfortunately, as we have heard here today, the number of municipalities offering consumer guidance has decreased steadily, so it is very gratifying that there is a broad consensus in Parliament on the issue of strengthening and developing the municipal consumer guidance. In addition to everything I have now said, the Green Party also supports the announcement that exists. Consumer credit and fast SMS loans are a constant problem. Consumption loans account for one fifth of household debt and have increased substantially over the last decade. Over the years, several different legislative proposals have been tried, but stakeholders are constantly finding ways to get past them. Here, the Government has commissioned Finansinspektionen, in collaboration with the Swedish Consumer Agency, to monitor and evaluate the legislation in order to see how this can be improved in the long term. That is an important issue. As an environmental party, of course, I would like to mention green consumption. It is important for us humans to be part of something larger, something meaningful. I don't think we want what we buy to have a negative impact on the planet, but unfortunately in many cases it does. Environmental information is of course important here. Sweden is pushing for an ambitious line in the EU on eco-labelling and product passports, and the Swedish Consumer Agency has been tasked with disseminating environmental information in different ways. Greenwashing is a big problem. When the EU did a sweep, it was seen that about half of the environmental claims were vague or even incorrect. This is problematic. The Swedish Consumer Agency works very well with supervision and is in contact with the companies. In the majority of cases, companies correct themselves. Perhaps they do not really know how to express themselves and be clear. But then there are those who repeatedly exploit the possibility of having false environmental claims. There's even a call to stop greenwashing. A large group of influencers, companies and organizations are behind it. It will pay for companies to do the right thing and work to improve the planet. The consumer should not be fooled. Unfortunately, there is no court practice in this area in Sweden. The Swedish Consumer Agency has therefore developed a memo that gives its views on the legal situation regarding climate claims. There is an increasing interest in acting sustainably today. More and more companies are making use of this, and then we have to face it by constantly increasing the volume of supervision in this area. As far as sustainability is concerned, we need to get away from the slit-and-slip society and stay within the limits of the planet. There, consumer law is extremely important, and I am thinking in particular of the right of complaint, which we have heard about here today. You have the right to complain about errors in a product or service that you have bought. Normally, the consumer has the burden of proof to prove that the product is faulty, but for six months it is up to the company to prove whether the defect is original or not. The EU is now giving an opportunity to extend this to two years instead of today's six months. The Swedish Consumer Agency believes that two years is an opportunity that we should take and that it is a balanced proposal for the reason that the seller has the best knowledge of the product and the greatest opportunity to show whether the defect is original or not. The company also has greater opportunities to investigate and troubleshoot the product in a professional manner. It is very difficult for the consumer to prove an original error, and this is particularly true of technologically advanced products, which exist to a large extent today. From a sustainability point of view, it is valuable for companies to be given incentives to make sustainable products. If products become more sustainable, there will be less need to complain. Many lots are pushing for products to have a long service life. In other committees, too, this is a controversial issue which is welcomed. Much is linked to the EU product policy framework. It is quite a long way ahead before it lands in Sweden, but this is something that we can already influence in Sweden today. Finally, I would also like to mention the announcement of written requirements for telephone sales. This is a very important issue; the Social Democrats and the Green Party think so. However, an investigation is already under way in this area, which will be presented on 13 August this year. So this is simply breaking open doors, we think. The directive states that more goods should be added. I therefore support our reservation 2.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-854	Madam President, I would like I am genuinely curious whether the Green Party is satisfied with the government's handling of lottery sales. I have already told you here that the Social Democrats have about 500 million reasons – half a billion have earned the party from lottery sales in ten years. So one might suspect that it is the 500 million that causes the government to sit on its hands and not act. It is not only that you have sold lottery tickets on credit to over-indebted people, but in DN, Swedish Radio and SVT it is also clear that the Social Democrats have cheated about who is behind the lottery. When the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate examined the Social Democrats lottery, they received a warning for having seriously violated the rules. Only one of the ads audited showed that it was precisely the Social Democrats who were behind it, and then only with fine text at the bottom. Madam President, I would like Sometimes things go fast for the Green Party. When you want to close an airport, you run out a government mission today, and so it should be ready by August how Bromma will be closed down. Then it'll be quick! But on this issue, as my parliamentary colleagues in the committee have said, nothing has been done in years. It may be that it is because of the 500 million that the Social Democrats have made in profit. But why, Madam President, does the Green Party not want to improve consumer protection? Why does the Green Party not want to protect vulnerable consumers through the reasonable measure to remove the opt-out for written requirements for lottery telephone sales? Is the Green Party satisfied with the government's handling of the issue?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-858	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Member of Parliament Lars Beckman! We think it is very important to look at this. When laws are passed, they are established, followed up and evaluated. Then you do an investigation to see what needs to be improved. Now it is April, and we have an investigation under way that will present its results as early as August. I therefore find it very difficult to see that such an announcement would make it go faster than this investigation can do. The Directive also includes looking at more categories of products and goods to be covered by the written requirement. I therefore think that this is an excellent approach. You set up an investigation, and it will soon deliver its results. The Directives include a review of this. That's the answer to the question.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-860	Madam President, I would like It sounds more than false from the representatives of the Green Party here in the speaker's chair. The Social Democrats, since the 1950s in fact, have had an exception and special legislation for their lottery. Politics is to want, Madam President, and to send signals. Politics, of course, in this Assembly, is to legislate. But when the Left Party and the Green Party fail Sweden's consumers, it is also a signal. There are 500 million reasons why the Social Democrats do so. There is a reason why Minister Shekarabi has had countless press conferences but always have forgotten about his own lottery. It's pure cash for the Social Democrats and SSU. But we as legislators have a responsibility for all consumers. We have a responsibility to ensure that there is order and that we actually protect those consumers who are at risk of getting hurt because of this. Then it is reasonable, Madam President, for you to have a written requirement for telephone sales, even by lotteries – the special legislation that the Social Democrats have created for themselves. But I note that the Green Party and the Left are loyal to the Social Democrats. I don't understand why you are, because I know you don't have any revenue from their lotteries. I find it regrettable, sad and regrettable that the Green Party does not join the majority in committee on this issue. I hope that the Green Party in the government is pushing the Social Democrats so that there really is a sharp proposal in the near future that helps to protect consumers.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-865	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line, Lars Beckman! When it comes to sounding false – the MP is asking for an answer in the near future, and the investigation will be presented in August. So, yeah, I'd call it just in time. It is very important to have a written requirement for telephone sales. The investigation will look at several categories of products and goods. All of this is being worked on right now, and we will certainly be standing here soon to debate this issue. Speaking of false, I also really want to highlight that on the Moderate website it says that the Moderates in September 2020 started their own lottery. So this with lottery tickets and winnings from them is an equal question for the Moderates. It will be very strange to accuse certain parties of this but not others. Opening open doors certainly seems to be the theme of this parliamentary term. There's a solid investigation. The directive states that this should be looked at. Of course, this is an important issue that we are pushing for.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-873	Madam President, I would like Before I begin my speech, I will say that we Moderates naturally support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time I only ask for the approval of reservation number 19. Madam President, I would like It is not uncommon to see newspaper headlines or comments from upset citizens, municipal representatives or government representatives that unfortunately there is no available land to build on. Statements in this style are very strange in a country like Sweden, because when they are made one can almost get the picture that it is Manhattan we are talking about. But it is the Kingdom of Sweden, where 97% of all land is not built. Yet, as often as possible, we find ourselves in a situation where there is no land on which to build, for one reason or another. It may be that a detailed plan does not allow for a certain change that you want to achieve. It can be a matter of an area protection or a national interest, and it can be a matter of beach protection. It could be dotted land. There may be a wide range of things that make it impossible for one reason or another to build. This is a restraint for Sweden, Madam President. In this report, which deals with a number of motions, there are more than 50 reservations – 50 reservations, but not a majority on a single issue to beat the government's fingers. I think that is an understatement to this House, Madam President. My picture is that there is a community of parties that are more libertarian than the current government – the government that pulls its legs with the investigation and does not get much out of its hands when it comes to creating better conditions for easier and faster building in this country. Unfortunately, I think that the January agreement is disappointing for Sweden in this part too, Madam President, because it does not deliver at a sufficiently high pace what we would need to see. I would like to highlight a few points that we Moderates are particularly pressing for in this report and would like to see. Of course, that's not the answer to all the questions about why it's difficult, complicated or time-consuming to build, but it's some puzzle pieces. First of all, we need to redeploy the zoning institute, which has been over-detailed many times. This does not allow for the kind of fast-footed changes you sometimes need to see in municipalities. You are sometimes stuck with old detailed plans as it takes a lot of resources and a lot of time to redo to create the conditions for new construction. We want to replace this with something we call construction plans, which gives greater freedom to change and design new projects within an existing plan. We want to remove the design requirements that currently apply when a home is to be rebuilt in order for it to become two homes, one of which is to be rented out. This is currently an obstacle to a more efficient housing market in a fast and concrete way. We want to remove the building permit requirement for the purchase of another rental dwelling. Madam President, we want to clear up the delicate and complicated noise regulations. This House has said this several times, but the government is unable to get to grips with this issue and make lasting changes that actually make it easier to build. It is unreasonable, Madam President, for us to measure the noise on the outside of the facade when our conditions for isolation of harmful noise with the achievements of technology and new isolation methods have improved significantly. A noise-free indoor environment can also be built in environments where there is an extensive outdoor noise. This, of course, should be better assessed in the demands we have today. We want building permits free of more types of industrial buildings outside the planned area; it can be about farm shops or riding houses, for that matter. We know that the January Agreement has promised this, but where is it? We're waiting. We want to limit the right of appeal to those who are actually affected by a matter. The right of speech has become increasingly widespread, and this, combined with the fact that it is free to appeal, means that many construction projects get stuck in appeals that are completely unnecessary and cost society huge amounts of money. It should be accompanied by a symbolic fee to appeal. The fee should not, of course, be so high that it becomes inaccessible to the general public, but a symbolic fee should be introduced so as not to appeal for the sake of appeal. Furthermore, it should not be possible to appeal the same thing in several parts of the planning process. If you have complained about something in a detailed planning procedure and have been rejected, it is unreasonable that you should be able to complain about the same thing when it comes to the building permit application. These, Madam President, are some of the concrete proposals that we Moderates have put on the table. My picture is that there should be quite a large amount of support – perhaps even a majority – for these things in this House. I hope, Madam President, that we will have a more dynamic political landscape in the future, so that we can actually make it easier and faster to plan and build in this country.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-888	Madam President, I would like Housing policy in Sweden is deeply neglected. The reason for this is that we have a government that is very incapable of pushing forward with new proposals in the area of housing policy. Today we have an extensive housing shortage in Sweden for almost all groups in society. We have ended up in a section 22 where the housing that is being built cannot be requested by the groups that need them and where those who have a dwelling are not able to switch to another dwelling because there is a large housing shortage in Sweden. The housing policy pursued by the government really goes down in history. Never in modern times has it looked as bad as it does today. What is needed today is a comprehensive set of elaborate and recommended measures that can be launched in order to create the conditions in the long term and have a comprehensive plan for how to access more housing that people can afford to live in. All these plans need to include economic aspects as well as structural and entrepreneurial areas. We need more proposals from the government in order to achieve better conditions for building housing in Sweden. We need better conditions for smaller construction companies to be able to act on the housing market. We need to have standardised construction together with a Nordic construction standard to open up the market and to bring down the costs of construction. Building communities and building housing takes time. This is not something that can be done in a hurry, but requires long planning. Here we need to learn from the problems of the million-dollar programme and everything that we see today and get to grips with in these areas. It covers everything from safety aspects to the quality of housing. We need to protect the aesthetic and living environment and counteract the development of future million-programme areas in Sweden. We need to have a planned construction where we take into account the security aspect of building housing from the start and include more in that process to get all thoughts, ideas and angles and to create a safe living in Sweden. We need a national plan of action for the housing that exists today in order to create safe areas. There is much to be done here on the part of the government. Unfortunately, we have seen very little of government reforms in this area. People should be able to afford to live in the homes that are being built. When we see population growth in Sweden and put it against housing construction, we see that this needs to be harmonised. Utopian migration policy needs to be tightened up to restore a balance in the housing market. Together with a series of other comprehensive and necessary efforts, we need to bring about a change in housing policy that once again enables people to actually demand and get a home that suits their own household. The amortisation requirement needs to be reviewed. Young people's mortgages and housing savings should be introduced in order to create the conditions for more people to cross the threshold and enter the housing market in the long term. More and more developed forms of housing that are adapted for different groups need to be developed and developed. We can see, Madam President, that we have a reformed government, and that is absolutely the last thing Sweden needs today. With those words, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 59.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-903	Madam President, I would like Despite or thanks to the fact that many of the Center Party's proposals for more housing and increased construction throughout the country may be implemented with the January agreement, much remains to be done. No less than 15 out of 59 reservations come from us, and although my speaking time is long, it is impossible for me to go into each of them. For construction to increase, freedom must also do so, the freedom to try new ways of building and new places to build. Other forms of housing are needed. But road dependence is strong, and the construction sector has until now been one of the most conservative industries. This is changing. Many companies are now creating industrial processes where houses are manufactured in factories in long series and set up in a few hours to move-in homes. Despite the debate on special requirements and the fact that it is no longer permitted for municipalities to go beyond national energy consumption requirements, companies operating throughout the country feel that municipalities do different and place different requirements on what documents they need to see in order to be able to grant building permits. It must, of course, stop. If a house is allowed to build in one municipality, it must also be allowed in another, Madam President. Climate declarations are good. It is an advantage, especially for those producing industrial wooden houses, to have a uniform way of classifying according to environmental impact. Lower construction costs should lead to more sites in the country being possible to build and more people can afford to move into these homes. Madam President, I would like It is not today that we should talk about everything that would be needed to reform the housing market. We will stick to the Planning and Construction Act and the opportunities it should give people, companies and municipalities to be creative and long-term with their plans for building and living. Building permits, detailed plans and outline plans are important tools, and for the Center Party, municipal self-government is a sacred cow. But the ability to step aside and cross borders in an orderly manner can be a way of renewing and changing. In addition, it can be a partial solution to serious social crises. The one we are currently experiencing with a pandemic is an example of what can happen to society. It may prove necessary to change the purpose of the premises after some time, as there is simply no need for what they were intended for and other uses have become more urgent. One example is emergency care that needs larger facilities, field hospitals that have been needed and many people to be sampled and vaccinated. Another may be the result of more people continuing to work from home, so that office space can be converted into housing. Madam President, I would like Society can be affected in other ways, not just by pandemics. It can suffer from harassment, cyber attacks, power and water shortages, disturbances in the telephone network, sabotage and terror. Climate change and rising seawater levels have already made it clear that agglomerations adjacent to water must think differently and build barriers to flooding. We need systems that make us less vulnerable. The fact that not all households are connected to the same municipal water and sewage services should be self-evident for reasons of preparedness. Municipalities should also be allowed to test locally adapted models to enable shorter lead times from a developer bringing forward an idea and have a piece of land that it wants to plan until a decision on the detailed plan and building permits can be made by the relevant board. We propose a municipal experiment to shorten and simplify the decision-making process, and we want to create opportunities to point out innovation areas where deviations from existing rules can be allowed. It is now, Madam President, many years since the Centre Party first put forward the idea of private initiative which allows the construction company to request from the municipality that it give a plan decision and then leave it to the applicant to carry out the work. Now such a proposal is on the way and will be discussed here shortly before midsummer. Simplifying, speeding up and increasing freedom is an ongoing work that the Center Party will continue to take the lead in. It is our promise to you that we are planning communities and building housing to do so. For the Center Party, the development of the whole country is the most important. Each municipality and each region must feel that they have the support of the government and parliament to plan for population growth. The spread and extent of national interests is a problem, the protection of the beach is another, as well as far greater obstacles for small municipalities to create attractive settlements. We expect the government to take the intentions of the January agreement seriously, fundamentally reform beach protection and really make it easier to build beachfronts in rural areas and increase local influence in deciding whether to suspend protection. They then need to listen to referrals from anyone who is now concerned that the county administrative boards may be given too much power to suspend previous municipal decisions. Madam President, I would like The Center Party was more supportive of Stockholm and Skåne becoming so-called regional plane agencies. We want more regions to be given this opportunity and the work on regional planning to be evaluated before it is expanded. There have been questions and concerns from Sweden's municipalities and regions that the current law restricts municipal self-government and that municipalities will subsequently be forced to adapt to an adopted regional plan after the county boards have intervened. It was never our intention to limit municipal self-government, and I believe that SKR's concerns may be exaggerated. However, in order to avoid the doubts of the bodies that now have to comment on the request by Region Halland and Halland municipalities to the Ministry of Finance to form regional planning agencies, the government must take the initiative, both to clarify the law and to open up to more than just attempts. Here there are great differences between the parties with reservations on this issue. Unlike the Left Party, we want neither government nor regional involvement in each, how many dwellings or what type of housing municipalities will build. Many people's hope of building a house on a scenic plot in the countryside often stop at just one dream. Unfortunately, the costs are high and the possibility of financing the construction is small. It remains a dream reserved for those with good income and saved capital. We hope that can change. But we also realise that many people choose to live centrally and close to the service, public transport and cultural offerings. For some, this is actually more important than silence, peace and quiet. Densification of city centres is the solution when municipalities want to build but do not have access to land. For example, building on a floor on top of an older house and at the same time equipping it with an elevator would be possible if it were not for this house to happen to be connected to a road, a railway track or an industry. Difficulties to find such locations centrally and to achieve a quiet side in these situations means that many good and sought-after locations are not built. Madam President, I would like A reservation on this, on which the bourgeois parties agreed earlier, could have been accepted if it were not to save time at the vote. That is why, Madam President, I would like to inform you that the Centre Party supports all 15 of our reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 24 on regional planning.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-923	Madam President, I would like Housing policy in Sweden is characterised by the lack of housing and politics. However, when we have the new Minister for Housing in this House today, I hope that we can find an answer to what the Minister for Housing intends to do about the enormous lack of housing, overcrowding, homelessness, pensioners who are at risk of becoming homeless and more families with children who are becoming homeless. In my own municipality of residence Malmö, from which the Minister of Housing also comes, women live in destructive conditions and who cannot move because of a lack of housing, young people who cannot leave home, people who cannot move to where the education is located or people who cannot move to where the jobs are. The list can be made long. However, I very much hope that we will receive answers today from the new Minister for Housing, who is included for the first time in this debate. Madam President, I would like The right to housing is a fundamental human right. Society has an explicit responsibility for housing supply. In the form of a government of Chapter 1. Section 2 states that the public must ensure everyone's right to housing. The reality, however, is different. More and more people are being denied the right to a home of their own, despite the clear wording of the form of government. Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that all people should have the opportunity to live in good housing at reasonable cost in a safe environment. That is not the case today. I believe that the lack of housing must be met with increased political responsibility. We must recreate a state housing policy worthy of the name, which is active, comprehensive and in accordance with the principle of general welfare. A policy with different types of special solutions for large groups is in complete contradiction to this. According to Boverket's forecast, the number of dwellings started this year will decrease. The actual reduction is, of course, difficult to say because of the coronapandemine. For the Left, however, it is clear that, regardless of the coronapandemin, further housing policy efforts are needed – partly because the housing that is most needed, i.e. rents with reasonable rents, will actually be built, partly because we need energy efficiency and renovate the existing stock. Madam President, I would like By increasing housing policy efforts, we can reduce the housing shortage. We can carry out the necessary renovations in the million-dollar programme in particular, and at the same time we can give a necessary injection into the Swedish economy during the Corona crisis. Madam President, I would like In Denmark, a major investment is now being made in the renovation of public utilities and rentals. The initiative is also intended to contribute to a re-launch of the economy following the Corona crisis. Given the renovation needs of the Swedish rental portfolio, a similar initiative would be welcome here in Sweden. It may not be possible to translate the Danish model for renovation directly into Swedish conditions, but we can draw inspiration from the Danish example. By investing heavily in greater renovation and energy efficiency of the existing rental portfolio, we can give the Swedish economy an extra boost. A proper climate effort like this would provide greener and healthier houses, but also many jobs that can help take Sweden further from the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. Madam President, I would like All too often we see examples of how rogue property owners are allowed to buy more land to build new houses. The Planning and Construction Act, PBL, needs to be reviewed so that property owners who do not manage their administration will also not be able to obtain land, building permits, a detailed plan change or the possibility to purchase properties from the municipality. I therefore believe that the government should come back with proposals for sharper reference for sales and land allocation. Madam President, I would like We cannot talk about housing, planning and construction without talking about the climate issue. Today, the construction and real estate sector accounts for just over 20 per cent of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. If we are to achieve the national environmental quality objectives, the energy use of the built environment must be reduced. I therefore believe that it should already be possible in the detailed plan to make demands on energy efficiency, type of heating, construction and more. The Planning and Construction Act therefore needs to be amended to make this possible. This would increase the conditions for more sustainable construction. Madam President, I would like In Left Party's motion Housing policy, planning and construction we describe our housing policy and what we think should be done to create good housing, housing that is good for both the environment and the climate and for all residents. Madam President, I would like Municipalities play an important role in increasing housing construction, but their current land policy tools are not enough to reach a high level of housing construction. Today's housing shortage drives up prices on land. As a result, developers who have been given access to plotted land by the municipality in order to build on it do not build because they hope for further rising land prices and higher return on their investment later on. This is not acceptable and the problem needs to be addressed. The Construction Law Investigation Report A faster construction of housing contains several concrete proposals aimed at municipalities being able to ensure that building rights are exercised to a greater extent without undue delay. However, despite the fact that the report has been referred, the government has not returned any proposals to Parliament. Madam President, I would like To have a regional perspective in planning is important in many parts of the country in order to create a balance in housing construction. Regions' business and infrastructure are often interrelated, and as labour market regions expand and communications improve, the housing market does not always comply with local government boundaries. It is not only in the metropolitan regions that it is important to take a regional perspective into account in housing supply. Needs can also be found in municipalities with declining population base. Nevertheless, Sweden has a highly decentralised planning system based on the autonomy of municipalities. I am in favour of the legislative changes introduced by the bill A new regional planning. Even then, however, my party argued that regional planning should be given more opportunity to influence the housing construction of municipalities. We already pointed out then that regional spatial planning should be introduced in more counties than Stockholm and Skåne. Housing supply is a regional issue, and all municipalities in a county must contribute to building up the housing shortage. However, if several municipalities are to take such responsibility, I believe that clearer government and regional governance are needed. Madam President, I would like I therefore believe that there is a need for a regional level of spatial planning that has a more direct and binding impact on the municipal plc plant. The regional level should be able to control how many dwellings each municipality should build, either on its own or through other landowners or residential developer. I therefore believe that the government should ensure that regional spatial planning is introduced in more counties than Stockholm and Skåne. Finally, Madam President, the rules governing planning and construction must be predictable and uniform and fulfil their purpose. Through an active role and active policy, municipalities must contribute to a varied range of housing and tenure arrangements so that all residents can enjoy good and efficient housing. The rules governing planning and construction are in place to protect people from poor housing conditions, while stimulating development, quality and long-term sustainability. Having said that, I would like to endorse the Left Party's reservation 25.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-942	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden are building far too little housing. I believe that we all agree on this in this House. Above all, we build far too little small houses. We build an average of under 10 000 small houses per year, and that is far too little in relation to the needs that exist. Boverket predicts that around 600,000 homes will need to be built in 2020 – 2029. So, to be a little more clear, there are 60 000 homes each year. We note that we did not reach that figure last year. The projections for 2021 show that we probably don't do it this year h or. This means that next year we will need to build considerably more homes than 60 000 to meet the 600 000 housing target between 2020 and 2029. This picture should be taken with you while you see that the prices of housing are now shining up. This shows that neither we as a parliament nor the government have been able to make the changes needed to meet the needs that exist. What are the needs? Reducing processing times is one of the needs. Reducing the right-holders' circle would be necessary. More measures would be needed for building permits to be freed up. None of these measures are enough for us to be able to build the necessary housing. Real prices and long queues for rentals are clear proof of our failure. I think it is remarkable that, as a nation, we do not get up to the levels of housing that are needed but that, year after year, we are lagging behind. But the question may be asked: who is taking the direction of the number of homes per year? I note that it is not the Riksdag, because we do not set a national target for the number of homes to be built in Sweden. Nor is it the government, for it does not set a national target for the number of homes built in one year. Not having a goal means comfort, that is, you do not need to evaluate a goal. Nor do you have to make efforts to meet the target, because you have not actually set anything like that. It is quite common in the municipalities to set a goal, work towards that goal and evaluate and do measures to achieve it. At national level, however, there is no view that objectives are good to steer towards. My view is that although municipalities have a planning monopoly, it is necessary to set a national target and encourage municipalities to take measures that steer towards the target. One of the most important things in order to increase housing construction is to take measures to increase the supply of buildable land. As a side-effect of an increased supply of such land, the cost of construction is reduced and promotes the diversity of homes with different types of leases. So it would not have to be the case that the building of small houses always comes last in the order of priority when municipalities make plans for a year. One could manage to plan more and can also build more and a variety of homes. One measure to achieve this could be to introduce a possibility for municipalities to overplan for housing. Measures are needed to clarify the needs of municipalities' planning readiness. This would be done by commissioning the County Administrative Board to map the municipalities' planning readiness for the number of apartments and tenancy forms. Such a survey can reveal how well the preparedness is in relation to the planned residential building in the municipality and, if so, a national target for the number of homes needed in that region. In my opinion, the mapping of the buildable land should be recorded in a register accessible to the public. This combined with a planning stimulus for municipalities gives municipalities an incentive to overplan, and the possibility of increasing housing construction is increasing radically. We know from experience that small house areas are often at the bottom of the priority list when municipalities are planning. With a planning stimulus, the possibility of planning small-scale housing areas would increase radically. Garden cities were a concept that grew up in cities during the early 20th century to combat the severe housing shortage that prevailed. The target group was the working class, which at an affordable cost could build a home and own that home. The houses that were built then came to be associated with social sustainability and good growing-up conditions for children. This can still be the case, and I can add that with the right methods you can build garden cities at reasonable prices so that in the 21st century an ordinary children's family can have the same opportunities as a children's family at the beginning of the 20th century. It is a reasonable desire that families with children's own ownership, security and freedom should not have diminished in the last 100 years, is it not? We believe that the state should be an active party to promote the emergence of new garden cities in places that can reasonably be linked to functioning infrastructure paths. A first step is a revision of the PBL in order to allow temporary derogations or other derogations from provisions that stand in the way of housing construction. These may include, for example, exceptions to public interest requirements, design and property requirements for construction works, detailed planning requirements and building permit rules. I mean, we have to dare to win. Dare we do in Parliament, and dare the government too. We need to start trying to plan garden cities, activate a plan bonus and allow municipalities to make more exceptions to increase housing construction. That is why I am in favour of reservation number 10.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-957	Madam President, I would like Of course, it was not my intention to ask for a reply on Larry Söder, but I was a little confused, because I saw Larry Söder standing there in the speaker's chair, but I heard Momodou Malcolm Jallow speaking. What Larry Söder said was a blueprint of what Momodou Malcolm Jallow said when he talked about regional planning. He wanted to see a governance from the regions that tells municipalities how many homes to build, where to build and what type to be built. We may want and push for a housing policy in which we can find 60 000 or more homes to meet the needs. However, setting a national target requires the government to use instruments to achieve this goal. I honestly find it difficult to see how it can be reconciled with bourgeois politics. What Larry Söder is proposing is a planned economy in some form, Madam President, and it is extremely surprising that it comes from the Christian Democrats. Then one becomes curious to hear which other parties have talked together about such a policy, because it is not at least the Center Party. With such a goal, one must ask: What should a government housing policy look like? What carrots should there be? Building subsidies are something with which we are drawn, and we can design them in such a way that they steer towards certain types of housing. However, it does not require municipalities or construction companies to make use of these subsidies, but there is actually a voluntary approach. How do the whips that will win over the backs of local politicians feel when this state case from Larry Söder is to be fulfilled?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-962	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I want to use whips at all, but I believe in carrots. I think people want well, and I also think that municipalities want well. But I believe that in housing policy, and with the history that we have, it can be shown that the state, that is, the parliament and the government, has withdrawn too far in terms of the carrot and the injection needed to build the number of homes needed in Sweden. Nowadays there are some regions that go together and help each other, but they leave municipalities to decide for themselves how many dwellings are built in those municipalities without a thought of how many homes are needed nationally. Ola Johansson and I come from a municipality called Kungsbacka municipality. There you never think about how many homes are needed to cope with the need for new housing in Sweden nationally, but just think about how many homes you can build to meet the need for preschool and school. On the contrary, you think about what you need to do, that is, we need to see how many homes we need to build nationally and along with it create an opportunity to build homes, preschools and schools that are adapted to this. I believe in using carrots. I'm talking about a planning bonus that would go out to municipalities that actually plan for more housing than they have as their goal. In fact, we set in each municipality a target for how many homes to build, but we do not set such a target at the state level. I think it would be quite reasonable for the government to give those in ncitaments that are needed for us to manage to build more housing. I think it's pretty bad putting whips on municipalities. I believe that municipalities should still have a plan monopoly, but we must still be able to give carrots from the state level.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-967	Madam President, I would like I'm glad Larry Söder mentions Kungsbacka. I don't think many people know that, but I don't think there are any politicians who have built as many preschools as Larry Söder has. We did so together because we realized that it was a limiting factor for how many homes could be built. But even Kungsbacka is not able to build as many homes as would be needed, despite being blessed with both a lot of capital and good planning resources. If there is an objective that Parliament and the Government have set and supported, there must be funds. And the means Larry's talking about are not whips, it's money. It is taxpayers' money that is to be sent out to the municipalities to plan for them. In fact, it is not municipalities that build housing. It's companies that build housing. It is private individuals, companies and sometimes municipalities that own land that they want to exploit and build on. Then money in the municipality is not the limiting factor. It is rules and requirements that hinder housing construction. These are also issues relating to the driving forces in the market for building these homes, such as the leasing system and the possibility for a young household to borrow in order to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. I'm sure we'll agree on that in many ways. And we certainly agree that extensive simplifications of the rules are needed in order to achieve housing construction. However, setting state targets for housing policy is a Soviet planned economy, and I find that difficult to accept, Madam President.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-972	Madam President, I would like We agree on a relatively large amount. Rule-simplifications are needed. I also believe that we agree to ensure that the municipalities can be activated to build more. However, the crux of many companies that want to build housing is not money, but that they do not get building permits from the municipalities to build. How do we solve this? Yes, we encourage municipalities to be able to complete the plans for building permits. Otherwise, there can be no new housing. Who can do this stimulation? Well, it can be done at state level. I believe, in my heart, that the investment aid that we spend EUR 4.5 or 6 billion on every year does not lead to a single new home. I'll tell you again, not a new place to live. If we could have spent that money to the municipalities, so that they could have planned more, planned more and given more building permits, there would have been much more housing. I am absolutely convinced of that. That's where the money works. Make sure that the municipalities can work with the money, instead of ending up in the pockets of entrepreneurs where they do no good. Entrepreneurs had built the homes anyway. I'm convinced of that. If you call it plan economy, Ola Johansson, I call it common sense.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-977	Frau President! Liberals' vision is that it will be simpler, faster and less complicated to build housing. Residential areas should be pleasant, safe and varied. And the cities should be green and resilient. Realising this vision requires reforms in planning and construction. There's a lot going on in the area. The Committee on Modernisation of Construction Rules has presented a wide range of regulatory simplifications. Thanks to the January agreement, there is, among other things, a review of the duty of praise and a review of national interests in order to free up more buildable land. The agreement also allows private initiative. But more is needed. Madam President, I would like In order to make things easier, to go faster and to be less complicated, we in the Liberals have a number of proposals. For example, houses should be type approved. Today, the same house can be assessed differently in different municipalities. If the developer can obtain prior approval, the construction costs can be effectively reduced. It can also have a positive impact on the handling of building permit cases by contributing to shorter processing times. In order to speed up and facilitate the construction process, we also want the right of appeal to be restricted. Another measure that could speed up the construction process could be the introduction of a low appeal fee. Another simplification that could lead to more housing is if it would be possible to build so-called micro-residentials to a greater extent, i.e. very small dwellings with a compact layout where it will no longer be necessary to build, for example, storage facilities. In this way, young people's demand for a first home can be met to a greater extent. Some types of housing where there is a particular shortage should also be able to be handled quickly. A fast track for student and year-long housing should be introduced. Noise requirements are an additional element that should be adjusted to allow for both more housing and to make it easier to build in densely populated environments. The requirements for the sound environment should be high inside the dwelling but more flexible outside the dwelling against facade. Even seemingly minor issues can lead to hassle and bureaucracy. For example, municipalities cannot allow friggebods and attefallshus to be located closer to the land line than the current rules allow if the plot is adjacent to municipal land. That kind of hassle should easily be removed. Madam President, I would like Our residential areas also need to be more pleasant, secure and varied. In the drive to build new residential areas, seal the growing cities and make land use more efficient, it is easy for sports areas to be prioritised down and for space for play and movement to be reduced. When planning residential areas and infrastructure, this must be done with people at the centre. Sports areas and green areas have in many ways a positive impact on society and the environment. Boverket should therefore be given the task of developing a guide to municipalities on how to work more actively to bring in sports spaces for both spontaneous and organised sports. SKR and also the Swedish Sports Federation could be good stakeholders to participate in this cooperation. Crime prevention needs a long-term perspective and a local environment in which the work is carried out. The municipalities have a key role to play in this work, and some of the work should be carried out through urban planning. We believe that there is a need to give safety issues a stronger position in urban planning in order to signal more clearly that these issues are priorities. One way to do this is to change the PBL so that the law explicitly regulates that all spatial planning should have a crime prevention perspective. In cities and larger communities, for example, it can be about counteracting night-closed shopping centres, which can be perceived as unsafe when passing them on the way home from the bus. It can also be a question of creating a well-thought-out approach to walking paths and other measures that can increase security. In order to create greater variety of housing, we think that a new self-home movement is needed, especially in our vulnerable areas. Municipalities need to plan for more townhouses and villas in areas dominated by rentals, so that those who want to buy pre-planned land from municipalities and build their own housing. In addition, the detailed plans must be so flexible that each home builder is given the opportunity to put their own mark on the dwelling. Madam President, I would like Finally, we Liberals want to see green and resilient cities. The large migration to cities and agglomerations in Sweden requires good planning in terms of environment and sustainable development, public transport, residential construction and municipal and commercial service. Cities with green structures have better local climates than cities without greenery. A green city can handle heavy rain better and have greater biodiversity. In a city with parks and gardens integrated in the buildings there are natural meeting places outdoors for the inhabitants. Then they also have close contact with the biological cycle in their everyday life. Recreational farming has become one of the most common leisure activities. I suspect it may have increased some during the pandemic. It's a valuable part of people's lives. It is therefore important to see and include those environments, such as villa gardens and colony plots, in urban planning. In future urban planning, we believe that the value of these qualities should be taken into account. It should also be expected that factors such as lack of physical activity can have a high socio-economic cost. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number 7.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-992	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report CU13. Today we are going to deal with the motions relating to planning and construction. The proposals range from regulatory simplification to more requirements in the detailed plans. Opinions run in different directions, not only between parties but also within parties. The question of how we build our societies sustainable, ecologically, economically and socially is crucial for what kind of society we are handing over to future generations. This is evident in some of the motions dealt with in this report. Social planning measures, such as energy efficiency, enhanced biodiversity, the need for green spaces and space for play and spontaneous sports, are required, while landowners and builders may want to exploit as much as possible, as reflected in some other motion proposals. For us Social Democrats, it is important that the rules in the planning and building permits process are clear so that conflicting interests can be met and discussed in order to achieve the best results. An important prerequisite for the effectiveness of planning and building permits work is that there is a long-term perspective in the conditions. Continuous changes create uncertainty for all parties who are trying to plan and get started with different projects. That is why we need a regulatory framework that lasts over time. During the last parliamentary term, the government invited the opposition to build talks, and although there was not a cross-block agreement, the government went ahead with a 22-point programme on which there was a great deal of agreement here in Parliament. This term of office also exists in the January agreement with a number of important points on planning and building with long-term sustainability, such as a simplified and shortened planning process and review of national interests, to name but a few. The government has also held construction talks with various parties in the construction market, because planning and construction is not just a matter of politics. I think that many of us in the committee have seen the overview map that the Stockholm Building Master Association has developed over the process from idea to key in the door and understand how complicated the process is. It describes the process from a builder's perspective and gives a good insight into this work. At the same time, municipalities have a plane monopoly. It means a broader responsibility to plan for the housing needs that are estimated to be needed in the municipality as well as to plan for activities that are needed, such as schools, elderly care and infrastructure in the form of roads, water and sewers, but also for society to be sustainable in all respects and to be safe. In order for municipalities to be able to take responsibility for, for example, the housing supply and for those builders who want to be involved in creating what is needed, a long-term and clear planning and collaboration is needed. The purpose of the Planning and Construction Act is precisely that the various actors and stakeholders plan and collaborate together. When this does not work properly, the consequences will also be worse. An actor in the industry has said: How much does reconstruction cost for things that should have been resolved before, or because too few preschools and schools have been planned, and after that need to be provided with temporary measures? I believe that in all the debates on planning and construction, I have said that we are not just building houses; we are building communities. If you have that entrance and understanding of the planning and construction, you also understand that it takes a wide range of processes to get the society we build to also function as a whole. Here, municipalities have a crucial role to play in their planning in order to balance all interests and create the conditions for good communities to be built in the end. In addition, there is a great need for co-planning with neighbouring municipalities in the different regions. The Government produced a provision on regional planning where Skåne County and Stockholm County will initially develop a regional plan, as others have already mentioned here. I believe that regional planning is becoming increasingly important. As I understand it, there is a discussion about more regions wanting to develop regional plans. The state also plays an important role in planning by ensuring that our county boards are active in the planning process. The municipalities can for some years request a planning statement from the county administrative board on the issues that the state has control over, such as national interests. A review of national interests was initiated last January. The Boverket, as a coordinating authority, together with five other authorities, will review their respective claims on areas of national interest. Overall, the review will lead to a significant reduction in both the number of claims for sites of national interest and the overall distribution of these sites. We Social Democrats believe that the planning of our societies has a major impact on how we can build the sustainable society and meet the climate goals that Sweden has committed itself to. In the January agreement, we have agreed that the climate policy framework remains in place and that the relevant legislation should be reviewed to bring it into line with this. Although the financing of construction is not part of this report, we Social Democrats are nevertheless proud that investment aid for rental apartments, student apartments and retirement homes and the new renovation aid are included. Rules and planning are really nothing without economic muscle behind. Over 30 000 homes have been granted investment aid. I believe, moreover, that it is an old figure; it has probably been further increased. Some say that nothing has been built or that these homes should have been built anyway, but that would not have happened at the level of rent that we are talking about. The important thing is not to simplify the rules, but to create new housing because there is a demand for these housing units. With the investment support, we create housing that normal income earners can demand. We also agree that the urban environment agreements should be developed and streamlined, which is important for reducing car dependency in our cities, and from January this year municipalities, property owners and others can seek support to develop urban green and ecosystem services and increase security in areas with socio-economic challenges. Furthermore, we have agreed to simplify and shorten planning processes. Here, Boverket's and Lantmäteriet's work with the digitisation of the planning, praise and construction process is important, I believe, in order to streamline the work. The last term of office of the County Administrative Board was removed as the first instance for appeals against detailed plans, which has led to a reduction in the total period of appeal. Many of us were present when the Land and Environment Court was given a presentation on this. I believe that the report showed that the appeal period has been reduced by an average of eight weeks, which is quite a lot. It's almost two months. More can also be done. Now in May will be the building permit investigation mentioned earlier. Among other things, they have looked at the subject-matter of the application for permission or advance notice. Let's see what it delivers. It's gonna be exciting. It can be seen in the motions that these issues touch on many. At the same time as regulatory simplification, shortening of the appeal process and reducing the range of parties involved are proposed in order to speed up the start of projects, it is also proposed to tighten the rules in the form of more things to be taken into account when drawing up detailed plans. We Social Democrats want to shape a society based on the ideals of democracy and the equal value and right of all people. Free and equal people in a society of solidarity are the aims of Social Democracy. Against this background, we do not want it to be whether you own land or real estate or how much your income is that gives you the right or the opportunity to participate in shaping our common society. It is clear that there is a need for a balance between different parties and actors and a clear responsibility in the planning of our future Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention a few more things. Despite the planning and construction law we have – and with its shortcomings – I would nevertheless like to point out that a lot of housing has been built in recent years. Only between 2015 and 2020 has 340 000 homes been built with current regulations. It sometimes sounds like nothing is being built in the debate, but a record amount is being built. However, that is not enough. Larry Söder from the Christian Democrats mentioned that we need to get over 60,000 homes a year to catch up to 2029. I share that view. In my e-mail I received a positive news in a newsletter from the Swedish Construction Industries. This news was published a month ago. Their forecast is that residential building will increase to 57,000 in 2021 and to 59,000 in 2022. These are steps in the right direction. I think we can do more together – market and politics. Madam President, I would like Once again, I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1013	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to take part in the debate here today. It has been interesting and in many ways very uplifting to listen to your posts. Questions about planning, construction and urban development are close to my heart. Taking these questions into the role of Minister for Housing has been both important and fun. We now finally have a housing building in Sweden that is higher than population growth. Since 2017, we are grazing – albeit slowly – on the debt that the 90s and 00s left behind. We still have some way to go to build to the extent that Boverket's construction needs forecast indicates, but despite the current pandemic, well over 50,000 homes per year have started. Last year 51 550 dwellings were started, according to SCB's preliminary figures. We are eagerly awaiting the definitive figures. I want to start there because it continues to be a very important issue. We still have a housing debt in Sweden. Something that is gratifying is the fact that many rental apartments are being built, not least because of the developed investment aid for rental and student housing introduced by the government. The aid has proved to be central to maintaining a high rate of construction, especially when the economic cycle has been in decline. So far, 21 000 homes have been built with investment aid and a further 24 000 have been granted. This means more affordable rental apartments throughout the country, not least in those regions where the housing shortage is greatest. Now we need to gradually pick up the deficit – for young people who need a first home, for people who need to move to a new job, for those who need to separate. One concrete way to work for increased construction is to link government investment in infrastructure to residential building. Here I would like to mention in particular the study Coordination for residential building, which through its agreements has stimulated and facilitated 66 000 homes. This has been done both by facilitating dialogue with government sector authorities and by matching local housing plans with the necessary infrastructure efforts. Sweden has also played an important role in this way. There, agreements were made with municipalities, regions and other actors on measures for, among other things, housing construction. More than 190 000 different homes were negotiated there. Another important way to enable an increased build-up is regulatory simplification. It is an area that the government has worked and is working intensively on. In this context, I would like to mention the proposal for a private right of initiative and the assignment to Boverket, which resulted in the proposal for the Construction Rules of Opportunities, which has just been on the table. They aim to make the planning process more efficient and faster. At the same time, I want to make it clear that regulatory simplification cannot be an end in itself. It's the result that counts. Since the new Planning and Construction Act was decided in 2010 during the time of the Alliance, there has been a long series of attempts at simplification. The problem is that the effects have not always been those desired. Chapter 9 of the PBL is an example of good practice leading to a patchwork of exceptions, making building permits rules difficult to understand. You should not have to bring in a PBL expert to understand whether a measure requires a building permit or not. The Construction Act investigation is currently working on a thorough review of the rules for building permits, and proposals will be submitted to the government at the beginning of the summer. After that, it is my hope and ambition that we will be able to come back with proposals as soon as possible. A high building act is very important, but it also needs to be good. When we invest heavily in more housing, public services and infrastructure, it is crucial to also develop life between houses. That is where many of the challenges we face will need to be resolved, and that is where people meet and move. Ensuring that people feel safe and comfortable in our public spaces is an important task. The government has set aside support for green and secure communities, a support that just creates the conditions for investing in life between houses in cities and urban areas around our country. What, then, are green and secure societies? An important task ahead of us is to ensure that our cities can withstand the extreme weather that has already begun to become a reality. Large amounts of rain but also extreme heat waves are an effect of climate change, and cities need to be better equipped. We need to build away the asphalt and stone deserts that create heat islands. Building more green spaces, mini parks, green roofs and green walls is one of the most effective ways to relieve the heat in cities. A study from Gothenburg shows that the temperature in a park was six degrees lower than at a hard surface and that the drop spread over a kilometer from the park. Plant life and smaller bare surfaces also reduce the risk of large values being washed away in rain. The best thing about all of this is that this type of climate adaptation counteracts both climate change and its effects. In addition, we have a nicer and more humane city. With regard to safe societies, I would also like to highlight cooperation as a method in this context. I have seen many examples of real estate owners, both public and private, entrepreneurs, local police and civil society working together in so-called site collaboration. Then we can reverse the trend in the long term. An example from my hometown of Malmö is Seved, where one has gone from a situation of great social unrest, high crime and exclusion a few decades ago to a calmer and more well-managed area with a higher proportion of serious property owners and residents that thrive much better. This is something we can do much more of. In order to spread this method to more areas, Boverket has earlier this year been commissioned to investigate how work on site collaboration can be strengthened. As you may have noticed, I am happy to talk about children and children's perspectives, so also in this debate. The fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law also obliges the PBL area. Children's needs need to be included in spatial planning. Today, social values generally fall far short of the list of priorities for spatial planning and urban development. This is what I and the government want to change. We have therefore taken a number of measures, all aimed at a greater impact on children's rights. Boverket has been tasked with developing guidance on how the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child can be applied to spatial planning. The Government has also referred a proposal from Boverket to amend the legislation within the framework of the Planning and Construction Act, so that municipalities can make binding demands on the quality, location and size of free spaces for play and outdoor activities. This is important, because it is about what we choose to prioritise. We know that children feel good about moving around, being able to explore the world and feel freedom. We know that living green outdoor environments and fresh air are good for their health. We also know that children today are moving far too little and that their space is too often given priority. It won't hold. A city that is good for both 8-year-olds and 80-year-olds is a city that is good for everyone. A high building act is important. But it must be sustainable too. The construction sector currently accounts for close to 20% of domestic climate emissions. It is an impact that must be reduced at a rapid pace. The sector has a good understanding of the challenge, and there is a demand for clear and governing rules to change the pace of change. To meet this need, the government has recently submitted a proposal on climate declaration requirements for new buildings. It aims initially to present and in this way make visible the climate impact of the construction phase. Already measuring can help reduce the climate impact of construction. But above all, declarations create the conditions for taking the next step. Among other things, it is a matter of setting limit values for climate impact based on a more complete life cycle analysis. One such proposal is currently being consulted. The intention is, of course, to steer towards a sharp reduction in emissions. Just as important as individual construction projects and with an impact that often takes place over even longer periods of time is the planning and design of entire areas and neighbourhoods. Here everything from travel patterns to green spaces and outdoor environments is affected. The goal is to make efficient use of the soil while creating attractively designed habitats that enable and facilitate a fossil-free society. In this area, I have recently received a proposal for changes to the PBL in order to increase transport efficiency. This too is a matter of priorities. It will be referred to you shortly. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, it is absolutely crucial to keep up the building act. When we build for the future, we do so socially, economically and ecologically sustainable.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1034	Madam President, I would like The government's utopian migration policy, which is completely devoid of foundation in reality, has created an unsustainable situation in the housing market. In this situation, I put a question to Minister of Housing Märta Stenevi. In view of the migration policy that the government is supporting, the question is how it is intended to solve the acute housing shortage that exists today among homeless people, newly arrived people, especially families with children and future new migrants that the government is setting up to come to Sweden. After several years in Sweden, these people are still very far from the housing market. Cities such as Malmö and Gothenburg offer accommodation for no more than a week at a time. These groups cannot be expected to demand any of the new rentals built with investment support that the government likes to highlight. The Swedish Democrats want to tighten up migration policy and create the conditions for return migration. It is not possible to continue to conduct the Government's migration policy in Sweden under the conditions that we see in the housing market and the labour market and in terms of integration opportunities. Madam President, I would like How will the Minister of Housing get housing policy together with the Government's migration policy?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1039	Madam President, I would like First of all, we can say that the main reason for the housing shortage we have is that we built far too little housing in the 90s and 00s and have a huge debt to build up for it. The second thing we can say is that we have large groups in society who have very difficult requests for housing in the ordinary market. We may share a concern about that situation, possibly with very different starting points. I am more concerned about the children affected by the housing shortage. We have a general housing policy in Sweden. This means that we build housing that everyone should want and be able to demand. Where demand power is lacking, we help the individual. We have, however, fallen short of that policy today. That is why we have set up the study on socially sustainable housing policy. It is about, for example, reviewing how responsibility can be shared between the state and the municipality and how we can find more tools to overcome the gaps between our different tools. I very much look forward to receiving the investigation's proposals in order for more people to be able to demand a home – even those who have a weaker establishment in the housing market today.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1043	Madam President, I would like In 2003, there was a balance on the housing market in Sweden in general. I do not agree with Märta Stenevi's description when the lack of housing construction began. It is mainly about the government, both the former government and the current government, not being able to follow the fairly clear figures in terms of population growth versus housing. If only those figures and graphs had been followed, perhaps we would have seen the situation we are in today, Madam President. It is quite clear from the answer we are now hearing from Märta Stenevi that there are no government proposals to resolve integration policy in Sweden. This is particularly true of the need for housing in order to be able to enter the labour market and society, where proposals are completely lacking. She refers to an investigation that has begun now. It is an investigation that I find difficult to see to come up with the answers to the question that I asked Minister of Housing Märta Stenevi, Madam President. My question was: How are the new arrivals that the government is planning to get a place to live? Where will all the migrants who have come to Sweden – who are currently far from the housing market and who are part of the Socialstyrelsen's investigation regarding people who are far from the housing market – live somewhere? That's my question. I got an answer about a forthcoming investigation that I find difficult to see to come up with the answers for this group. The government has created an acute housing shortage not only for those migrants for whom conditions have been created to come to Sweden but also for a large number of Swedes who are outside the housing market. For that I am now demanding an answer from the government.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1049	Madam President, I would like It is no surprise, in itself, that the Swedish-Democrat Member is able to start discussing migration policy also in terms of housing and planning. In fact, I believe that the investigation will deliver quite a lot of answers to how we can strengthen demand even for those who have a weak establishment in the housing market. I also see that we have many answers on how to keep up the building act that is now historically high, as we have heard before. By 2003 we had demolished a lot of homes. In 2003, virtually no housing was built at all. Now we build more than we have done in a very long time in Sweden. One of the answers to why we are doing this is investment support that has kept up the pace of construction even during the pandemic. There, some of the housing can go to social contracts precisely for the group for which the honourable Member is obviously so fond. With regard to establishment and integration, I would like to point out a few points. I can start with what we do not need to do to strengthen integration. It is to financially discriminate against children with parents born in other countries, as the Swedish Democrats proposed in their shadow budget the other day. What we need, however, is an equivalent school with strengthened resources for those children who need more resources to pass their school and then get to work. We need a strengthened establishment where people get into work faster and learn Swedish faster. They do not do so because they find it difficult to pass the rent, difficult to pay their children's leisure activities or difficult to pay for the food at the end of the month. For example, they do so through an intensive year where they can learn Swedish, have an internship and at the same time have mentoring. Finally, we need to combat discrimination in the housing market. Boverket has been commissioned to review whether there is one and what can be done about it.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1055	I remind you of the subject of the discussion, which is planning and construction.
i-MqhsXUwJENZirFwFyqPFYG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for participating in the debate. I would like to start by saying that it is a good thing that the Government finds reason to stress the proposal on the right of private initiative, for it has been opposed by her own party. It has come out because of an announcement by the Riksdag, and I know that the Green Party has never been in favour of private initiative. But it's great that the Government nevertheless welcomes the reform – well done. My experience with debates with environmentalist ministers is that you do not get answers to the questions if you ask too many, so I just wanted to ask one question: What does the Government intend to do concretely to increase the availability of buildable land in Sweden?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1059	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that I represent the government in this debate. I am here on my mission as a minister and not to bring forward the policy of the Green Party. I am happy to debate it with the honourable Member on another occasion. When it comes to increasing access to buildable land, I really want to point out the coordinated planning processes that have taken place, for example, within the framework of the Swedish negotiation and also about the investigation that I mentioned earlier today – and whose name I have just lost. I'll find it later. This is a work that we will evaluate, and it has created a large number of homes on planned and buildable land. I think there's a great potential in this. This involves increased planning and further development of regional planning. Now we have a request from Halland that the Ministry of Finance has to decide on. My hope and the government's hope is that more regions will show interest in regional planning, which will be able to support the municipalities in the planning of buildable land in the regions because they will also have a clearer link to infrastructure investments.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1063	Madam President, I would like I guess that's what you call a non-responsive. The Swedish negotiation had to do with financing issues in particular. What I'm wondering is, how are we going to get more land to build on in this country? As I mentioned in my speech, 97% of Sweden is not built. But very large parts of Sweden cannot be built on, due to national interests, territorial regulations and area protection of various kinds. My question, if I am to make it even clearer in order to lead the Government right in the discussion, is: What national interests does the Government want to limit? And how does the Government want to make it easier, for example, to build in beachfront locations? That kind of question is what I want answers to when I wonder how the government intends to increase the availability of buildable land in this country.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1066	Madam President, I would like It is extremely kind of the honourable Member to want to lead me right in the debate. I just want to start by saying that Sweden's negotiations generated 190 000 new planned homes, so it always gave new planned homes. I recommend that the honourable Member read a little about that; it is very interesting, and this gave a lot of development in the cities. Both national interests and beach protection have, as the honourable Member is of course very well aware, been investigated and referred to. I will come back to what the proposals bring to mind at a later date.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1068	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Märta Stenevi, for being part of our debate! It is still the case that overcrowding is a major problem in many areas. We have a housing segregation. We have social concerns in many areas that lead to illegal second-hand rentals and other concessions that cause people to end up in extremely precarious housing situations. We have long queues for rental apartments in many cities, perhaps up to 10 – 20 years of queues. But many households cannot afford to ask for the homes that are being built, and so they do not get in line either. We also need, for example, sheltered housing for women who are victims of violence and need to get away from their abusive husband, perhaps in another municipality. But that is not what I was going to talk about! Leif Nysmed mentioned that we should build communities. We will build communities that are robust, sustainable, climate-smart and all of this. We will have transport that works so that people can get to work and so that we can export our products abroad and move them within the country. The Swedish hearing was mentioned, and it is of course enabling. But when it comes to this, the municipalities are too small a level to plan on. In a global perspective with mega-regions, we need to increase the perspective, and then we have mentioned regional planning. Many have spoken about it, and I thought we should dwell on it. The Center Party would prefer to evaluate the reform of regional planning before it is rolled out into the other regions, as we also propose to do. There are now concerns from some municipalities, to which I will come back in the next change of line, that municipal self-government is restricted by the legislation that we adopted and which we all supported here earlier. I wonder what Märta Stenevi has in mind when it comes to evaluating and clarifying this.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1077	Madam President, I would like Although that is not what the honourable Member wanted to talk about, I will take this opportunity to respond. Overcrowding and the long queues are, of course, a major problem for our society. I would like to point out once again that we are hoping to get a proposal on housing queues and priority systems from the ongoing study on socially sustainable housing provision. I think it is very important that we look at what systems we have and what opportunities we have available for more people, for example, to be able to find permanent housing after leaving shelter. As far as regional planning is concerned, we know that we have two regions that have the regional planning task and another that have made a request to the Ministry of Finance. It is currently being prepared, and I have no opportunity to comment on this request at this stage, except that preparation will be carried out. My view at this point is not that there needs to be an evaluation, but if we get strong other such signals, we will of course consider it. My picture from Stockholm and Skåne is that regional planning has been a strong support for the municipalities when it comes to planning in a more efficient and better way. I believe that there are great opportunities in this legislation also forward.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1082	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we welcome Karolina Skog's housing social investigation. However, according to the Center Party, more extensive housing social reforms are needed, and this investigation is not sufficient. That is our view. To return to regional planning: Yes, it is true that Halland is a region that has asked the government to set up a regional planning agency. That's good. I think Västra Götaland has similar plans. Not long ago, it was also decided that regional and local authorities and labour market regions should not be allowed to be regional planning bodies. Parts of Halland have been included in that planning level before. Now it has come to my attention that despite the fact that Region Halland has joined this petition, there is a doubt among some of the Halland municipalities about this. The doubts stem precisely from Skra's warnings that regional planning legislation within the PBL as it is formulated may risk encroaching on municipal self-government. For the Center Party, municipal self-government, as I said in my speech, is almost a sacred cow. And I know it's for the municipalities too. On the other hand, I am quite convinced that all municipalities in Halland and elsewhere would benefit greatly from coordinated planning precisely in order to achieve these effects and be able to assert themselves in a mega region such as that between Hamburg and Oslo, which Halland is in the middle of. It is therefore worrying if the government does not manage to clarify to those municipalities who feel a doubt as to how regional planning behaves in relation to local self-government. I would like the government to take the initiative in this and, in this connection, to take advantage of the experience of the municipalities already planning for the region, namely Skåne and Stockholm.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1087	Madam President, I would like I share the honourable Member's positive view of regional planning. My experience from Skåne is that it has made it much easier for not least smaller municipalities to have a larger planning horizon. Thus, they can plan housing construction more efficiently. It also provides a coordination that is of great benefit to industry in particular when planning within a region. Of course, we should always take concerns seriously, but I do not see any reason at this point in time for a formal investigation into this. However, we will of course engage in dialogue with those who seek and deal with the request that currently lies with the Ministry of Finance.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1089	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for participating in the debate; that is great. We seem to agree that too little is being built and that this needs to be addressed. We also seem to agree on the need for regulatory simplification, and I agree with the Minister on the right of private initiative. I also agree with what the Minister said about the construction of asphalt searches. It's not something we want in more places than necessary. However, I would like to add that I want residential areas that are safe from both a social and economic perspective. The Minister says that a lot of housing is being built, even if there is too little building, and what is being built is almost exclusively rental. Almost no houses are built. From the 2010s onwards, residential building has increased, but the number of small houses is basically on the same level all the time, which is a bit remarkable. As more rental apartments are being built, more small houses should also be built. Seven out of ten want to live in their own owned dwelling, and I believe that their own property is both socially and economically more sustainable and safe. There are also usually no asphalt searches in these areas. In other words, it should be in the minister's interest for more small houses to be built. We have talked about this before and then we need access to buildable land. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does the Minister intend to increase the housing construction of small houses in Sweden because it is completely still compared to other types of housing building?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1095	Madam President, I would like My absolute belief is that mixed settlements in our cities provide the best opportunities for people to live in a good way. Then you can live in an apartment at the beginning of your housing career and then move to a villa when you have gained more stable income and perhaps formed a family. When the children have flown out and you may no longer be interested in large living space and garden, you can switch back to an apartment and then eventually to an adapted accommodation as your body gets tired. To prevent people from leaving their safe areas where they have their friends, acquaintances and neighbors, we need mixed settlements. How the municipalities choose to plan their land is a matter for both the housing market and the municipalities' self-determination over how to use the land that the municipalities have to dispose of and plan. The impact of the study on facilitating access to the housing market for first-time buyers could be considered for the demand for small houses on the market and could be a way of facilitating it. The planning of the land of the municipalities is still a municipal matter, and although I would not call it a sacred cow, as the centre-party Member did, I would probably say that it is an important parameter in the Swedish administrative model that the municipality plans the physical settlement within the municipality's borders.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1099	Madam President, I would like I don't know how to interpret the answer. Is the Minister satisfied that we are only building 10,000 small houses in Sweden? Does the Minister not think that we should encourage the municipalities to create more small houses? I have said in previous debates that it is going to reform the leasehold in order to make it more attractive and predictable and in this way give the opportunity to build more small houses. In this debate I talked about giving an incentive bonus to the municipalities that are planning buildable land for small-scale houses and thus increasing the number of small-scale houses. When municipalities plan housing, they make a priority order, and rentals and tenant-owners come first. The small-hu plans come at the bottom. If we are to increase the building of small houses, we must therefore increase the planning of the municipalities. I don't think it's just up to the municipalities. It is also up to us at national level to try to stimulate this. I agree that the planning monopoly should be at municipal level, but we must somehow stimulate the municipalities. If you do not set a target for housing construction at national level, you cannot have activities that work towards this goal. I do not think it is enough that Boverket has an approximate forecast for housing construction. There must be some responsibility at state level, even if the planning monopoly is at municipal level. I do not call it a sacred cow either, but it is important for the municipalities. I believe, however, that they also want to be involved in creating more small house areas that are safe both socially and economically, which Sweden needs.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1103	Madam President, I would like I share the view that the state should be involved in taking responsibility for housing construction. Through the investment support we take a clear one, and also with the legislative changes we investigate and go forward with. The fact that we have a higher construction than we have had in many, many years is also an effect of having taken this responsibility and continuing to take it. However, I am not so convinced that we should give economic incentives to the planning of small houses. I think it is very important to continue with investment support for rental rights for reasonable rents because we have groups that are far from the housing market and find it difficult to get into it. It is an important key to solving this problem. Last term we had a municipal bonus for municipalities that planned and stimulated construction. It was linked to the reception of refugees, and I guess that is not what the honourable Member is looking for at this point in time. I do not see the need to introduce one at the present time. However, I would like to emphasise how important investment support has been and how important continued support is for us to keep up the pace of housing construction. We are now building more than the population is increasing. Although I would like to pay off the housing debt much faster and hope to continue seeing an increase, we are still where we are now, and we have not been there for a very long time. We need to hold on to that.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1107	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear the Minister talk warmly about rents. But it's one thing to talk, another to do. Today, we have a housing shortage throughout the country. I think the Minister agrees with me on that. Overcrowding has had enormous consequences during the pandemic. According to Boverket, 462,000 households are overcrowded, and 56,000 of them have a strained housing economy. We see the children's perspective, which is important and which the Minister raised, which is gratifying to hear. However, several families with children are homeless in the Minister's hometown of Malmö and receive housing one week at a time. It's one thing to talk and another to show with action what you're doing to stop this. We see women who are vulnerable, who live in destructive conditions and who cannot move. We see pensioners who have worked their whole lives and who have no place to live or who cannot pay the rent and are at risk of becoming homeless. We see young people and workers who cannot move to where the training and jobs are. These are facts, no matter what you think or say. It is the Minister's government that governs this country. The question is, what do you do? We are talking about planning and construction, but what is planned is to build new homes whose rents in some cases will be 50% higher than current rents. New flats should be built with free renting, i.e. market rents, which makes it impossible for all these people and groups to get a place to live.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1115	Madam President, I would like It is the government that governs the country and that has done so for almost two terms of office. During this time, housing construction has grown very much, more than in a very long time before. We are now also building housing with reasonable rents with the help of investment support. But: It is not in new production that the cheapest homes exist. They will never do that, but they are in the existing stocks. What can be achieved, however, when we supply housing with reasonable rents is that we get a transfer and that we release more housing in the existing stock, which has lower rents. As the honourable Member said in her speech, it is important that we renovate in a good way and that we can use the energy efficiency support that has now been announced and which I hope will come into force after the summer, to carry out renovations in multi-family buildings so that we get good housing. But the cheapest homes we have in Sweden will be in the existing stock. Therefore, it is important that we have added more housing and more rental apartments so that we can get a housing market in balance.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1119	Madam President, I would like I said in my speech that housing policy in Sweden is characterised by the lack of housing and the lack of politics. The Minister says that many rental apartments are being built and more are to be built, but if the rental apartments that are being built have rentals that in some cases are 50% higher than current rentals, they will not help the people I mentioned. They will not help the low wage earners or pensioners who count the crowns and the crowns in order to survive their lives. So they're not helping. The question is, what can the Minister do specifically for the people I mentioned – pensioners, newcomers and women living in destructive conditions – to have somewhere to live, with the reform that is under threat? This is something that I know the Green Party has opposed. In the run-up to the last election, they went out and said they wouldn't go through with it. I would like to know: what has changed? What is it that makes us want to implement a policy that we know, without doubt, will have devastating consequences? Homelessness will increase, and more women will end up in situations where they cannot move, become independent or live in their own apartment because they will not be able to afford the new apartments to be built. The question is, given that the Minister is also responsible for gender equality and integration issues: we see that segregation is increasing. In line with the increasing class divisions, we see that housing segregation has also increased a lot. Different groups live separately in different residential areas. Differences in income, level of education, health and life expectancy are often very wide. How will the reform of market rents help us to get rid of the segregation that we see today?
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1124	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that there is no reform proposing market rents. I assume that what the honourable Member is referring to is the free renting in the case of new production. It is an investigation that has the task of proposing a model for free renting for newly built apartments. The new model aims to contribute to the long-term well-functioning rental market and the efficient use of newly built apartments. There must be balanced protection for tenants under the Directive, including the provision of security in housing. It will also be proposed how data on rental levels can be made more accessible, thus increasing transparency in the rental market. Existing apartments are not affected by the model at all. We shall be very clear about this. Existing apartments are not affected by the proposed reform, regardless of what is achieved. Now this is being prepared at the Justice Department. It's not under my briefcase, so I'll have to come back when we know what's coming out of it. But I think this should be very clear. What, on the other hand, provides reasonable and lower rents are investment aid and the opportunities we have through this support to provide housing for social contracts. These municipalities can choose to give way, for example, to women who need to leave a destructive relationship, new arrivals with weak establishment in the housing market or students. What we need more is to see what comes out of the housing allowance inquiry, because it is an important tool for us in general housing policy and in general welfare policy. What we also need to look at is the distribution of responsibilities between the state and the municipality and what tools can be found, for example in housing agencies and priority systems, to solve precisely the problems that the honourable Member points to.
i-V3BARGCfd5jMitr8uTcGdV	Madam President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 16 and of the committee's proposal in the civil committee's report CU14 in general. Under the heading ‘Horse management and water areas' we discuss the motions that affect everything from national interests, the need for housing, the protection of farmland, water issues and the protection of water areas to the conditions for carrying out water activities. During this parliamentary term, we have already had a debate on most of the issues we are debating today. I will therefore focus on the proposal for a declaration contained in the report. But let me begin by putting the issue into an important political context, namely the division of power in our society. The Social Democratic model of society is about shaping a society based on the ideals of democracy and the equal value and right of all people. In this, a self-evident task lies in achieving a balance of power between different interests. The ownership of capital is a tremendous power factor in all contexts. It is also the case that the development in the world and not least in Sweden means that ownership is becoming increasingly concentrated in a few individuals and that there is thus an increased concentration of power. Democratic society is the only force that can be a real counterweight to the economic elite. With democratic decisions, politics can change power relations and smooth the economic divides. Why, then, do I emphasise this, Madam President? Well, today we are going to discuss a proposal for the announcement by the parties which are politically on the right of the S ocial democrats. The 60% of Members of this House who are expected to support the announcement want an individual to have the right to refuse to join municipal water and sewage systems. It may at first glance sound sympathetic, that you have to decide for yourself- I know. But let me come back to why this is problematic. First of all, I would like to point out that the requirements for the municipal expansion of water and sewage in the construction of rural areas are a major and costly obstacle for us to allow the whole country to live. There is a conflict of objectives in current legislation between the municipality's responsibility to protect human health and the environment and the need for more housing. The Government has announced to the Riksdag that there will be a legislative proposal based on the proposals in the investigation Roads to sustainable water services already this spring. The proposals in the study are about giving municipalities the opportunity to make an assessment of the needs of public water services and whether there are opportunities to otherwise achieve an equivalent level of protection for human health and the environment. We Social Democrats are very much in favour of the proposal for greater flexibility for municipalities when planning densification and settlement in rural areas. Madam President, I would like I shall now turn to the proposal of the right majority. Their proposal means that even when the municipality finds that there is no other possibility of achieving equivalent protection for human health and the environment, and the extension of public water services is therefore the only possible, an individual property owner should be able to refuse to join the municipal water system. What, then, are the consequences of such a legal system? On the one hand, it will negatively affect Sweden's ability to meet the requirements of the WFD, and on the other hand the economic economies of scale of municipal waste will be negatively affected as fewer are involved in sharing the costs. Above all, however, the protection of human health and the environment will be unequivocally impaired. I shall go back to the issue of power, because that is where the conflict between left and right in politics becomes so clear. Where the parties on the left want to strengthen democracy in order to constitute a relevant factor in the power of capital ownership, the right parties always put the power of capital ownership first. To do as the right-wing majority wants, i.e. to make legislative changes that reduce democratic power and strengthen the power of the individual when, over the last 30 years, we have so clearly seen a sharp shift in power to the advantage of ownership at the expense of democracy, I find problematic. In a rule of law, the individual must of course have strong protection against the state in order to prevent totalitarian development. It is equally central to a democratic balance of power. But on this issue it is so clear that there is a conflict of interests between the individual's self-determination and the general interest in protecting the health and environment of all people. This is a clear example of when ideological blindfolds lead politicians to make irrational decisions that put the individual's right to decide over all other people's health and environment. This is an alarming development, and I very much regret this.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1141	Madam President, I would like You can see that it is approaching May Day – the class struggle is bursting in the Chamber. And you wonder in which family the Center Party has actually ended up. But I guess we'll hear about that eventually. Madam President, I would like Water issues are very important. In fact, on April 27, it was a small anniversary. Then it was 160 years ago that Stockholm got its first water supply line. Stockholm Vatten has a very good description of how this happened in Stockholm. They wanted a public water main. The question was investigated. In June 1853, a proposal was submitted with drawings for the entire system covering pipelines, pumps, filters, pools and reservoirs. And then they found a good place for it. We can then imagine that everyone would have rejoiced, Madam President. I can't believe I got fresh water! But that was not the case. The investigation was presented by a committee. Stockholm Vatten writes: When this was done the decision was made in 1855 that the management should be built. But the resistance in the city to a water supply was still strong, and the protests did not delay. The decision was appealed to the king. But the complaint was rejected. Three years later it was royal inauguration, and on that road it is. Sometimes it feels like water and sewage issues are timeless, Madam President. It is true, as Joakim Järrebring said, that there is an announcement. A majority in the Swedish Parliament protects the property owners who should not have to connect to a municipal water network if they have a functioning individual sewer. I note that the Member of the Social Democrats has probably never seen the Cold Facts on TV4. It was programmes that were about people and property owners who were forced to join. It's very expensive to join. You have a functioning va-net, and you have a system that you are satisfied with. Then it was a very high cost. The majority here in the Swedish Parliament defend democracy and property rights and that the individual should be protected from these parts. Water is very important, Madam President. Unfortunately, there are very few politicians who go to elections to renovate the va-net. Quite often it is the opposite: M an says that you should build new ice rinks, new stadiums or do something else that voters think is important. But that means, Madam President, that there is a maintenance debt on the networks in Sweden which, according to some estimates, is SEK 800 billion. We see how it becomes more frequent and more frequent serious water leaks. Therefore, we Moderates believe that municipalities should be able to ensure access to drinking water and have a planning for it. You have to take stock of and ensure emergency water supplies, and you have to have plans. The municipalities need to plan for a priority of drinking water supply based on geographical and actual conditions in their own municipality. I think this is very important – in fact extremely important. Madam President, I would like Another important issue here is the small-scale hydroelectric power plants located around Sweden. They are important for many different reasons. But let's play with the idea that it's going to be an assault situation. What happens if there are problems with the power supply in Sweden? What if we don't have core networks that work? This could mean that small-scale hydroelectric plants are of enormous importance. It is also a property right, Madam President. The owner of the small-scale hydroelectric power plants is now, in many cases, subjected to abuse by the state, as they see it. The demands become so unreasonable that it simply ends up having to tear them down. That's not good. As I said, water and sewage issues are timeless. It is very important that the municipalities plan for this. And this announcement strengthens property owners, which we think is good.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1152	Madam President, I would like With regard to the development of the municipal water and sewage network, it is extremely important that there is a forward planning approach. Property owners should be able to know in the long term what is planned for their area and what future costs may arise. An investment in its own water and sewage plant is about big money, which is why it is important to keep ahead. Today, the law on public water services is very rigid. It imposes far-reaching obligations on the municipality to provide extended municipal water networks. At the same time, it involves a large cost for municipalities to expand the municipal water networks, which means that some municipalities are sometimes hampered in their housing development as they refrain from planning new buildings. New planned buildings involve large costs for the municipality, but it can also affect those who already have housing in these areas. The fact that residents organise their own approved small-scale water and sewage networks, instead of expanding the municipal water network, would be a much cheaper model for both the municipality and the individual. That is why we welcome the proposals contained in the report entitled Roads to sustainable water services. These are proposals that increase the flexibility of legislation for municipalities. They provide the municipalities with flexibility in assessing when to expand the municipal water networks. They also create the possibility of voluntary community facilities instead of expanding municipal water and sewage networks. Another proposal put forward is that a majority of the population in less populated areas should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether or not to join the municipal network. The Swedish Democrats take a very positive view of the proposals put forward in this report. In addition, individual households today need better protection against the coercive use of already approved water and sewage networks. With today's legislation, municipalities have the right to redeem existing water and sewage facilities – sewage facilities that have cost a great deal to purchase – in the event of an extension of the municipal water and sewage network. We are opposed to rigid legislation. What is also tragic in the situation is that the government has now postponed the announced proposals in this area twice. It is therefore extremely important for the government to return to the Riksdag with a proposal in this area as soon as possible, so that the individual properties in Sweden are today given better protection. It is therefore a good thing that the committee now wants to call on the government to take urgent steps to ensure that individual sewers that meet the environmental and health requirements in force are not forced to be connected to the municipal water network. Madam President, I would like With those words, I am in favour of reservation 17.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1157	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. I should have done so already in my speech, but now I have done so. I would like to know the views of the Swedish Democrats on small-scale hydropower. In the past, you have been with us on this issue, Roger Hedlund, but I note now that you are no longer. At least we don't have a joint reservation. I would therefore like to know how the Swedish Democrats view small-scale hydropower in Sweden and the importance of protecting it.
i-LuwU4ssmBBemZJLNig35wd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your question, Lars Beckman! I do not really know how you have come to the conclusion that we are no longer behind what we have previously supported. Small-scale hydropower is something that the Swedish Democrats have argued for, debated for and fought for for for a long time, and that is not something we have changed our mind about. We still believe that small-scale hydropower is something to be protected and that it should create the conditions for its operation in Sweden today. The existing barriers to small hydro power will be removed to enable it to continue to operate on a smaller scale.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1160	Madam President, I would like The reason I ask the question is, of course, that you did not join in the joint reservation of the Moderates, the Center and the Christian Democrats, Roger Hedlund. It is clear that one might think that you have changed your position, because if you had joined our reservation, we would have had more opportunity to send an important signal here in Parliament to the government about the importance of small-scale hydropower.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1161	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member mentioned in his speech, we have, in the past, proposed announcements that have been very clear on this issue. We have also seen that it has had a great effect that we have had joint statements. Our position has not changed at all, but one can see the Swedish Democrats as continuing strong support on this issue. We are, of course, willing to cooperate in every way with other parties in order to continue to push this important issue forward.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1162	Madam President, I would like Drinking water in Sweden is still of high quality in most places. For a few weeks in the summer, irrigation bans may have to be called for, and some summers ago there was concern about low groundwater levels and that some water storage sites risked theirs. But in addition to getting yellow lawns, few Swedes have yet been affected by the water shortage that is now threatening us. This does not mean that we can waste water – on the contrary, this our most important food must be protected for future generations. At household level, relatively simple measures can be taken that contribute to more efficient water consumption. The Center Party wants higher standards for the design of products already in the manufacturing phase through sharper ecodesign requirements. We want to see demands that toilets, showers and mixers, among other things, should be water-efficient. Toilets that are low-flowing or use so-called grey water, i.e. water from baths, dishes and laundry, are already commonplace, and studies show that water consumption in a household can be reduced by up to 50% with the right measures. Madam President, I would like The Swedish va systems are outdated and need to be climate adapted to extreme weather in the future and to groundwater levels that have decreased. Traces of chemicals, pharmaceuticals and microplastics are also more common in drinking water now than before. The Swedish Water Industry Organization states that we currently invest approximately SEK 16 billion annually in the va-systems, but it is believed that this amount will need to be increased to SEK 23 billion per year over a twenty-year period to cover all future investment needs. The extension of new pipelines and pipes to new residential areas and neighbourhoods, among other things, represent almost a third of these investment needs. In addition, climate adaptation measures and measures to equip the treatment plants with the latest technology are important for a smaller, but important, part of the necessary future investments. Particularly affected by the economy, Madam President, are municipalities in sparsely populated areas with low population density and high distances as there are fewer paying per meter of pipeline and higher costs per household connected to the treatment plants. At present, municipalities are not allowed to charge a higher rate of water than is needed to cover ongoing maintenance, nor are they allowed to fund funds for future investments. This means that many municipalities have very limited resources to upgrade their va-system with. Additional resources are therefore needed for future investments and climate change adaptation measures. There are various variations in how these funds can be spent on investment, and this is something we want to look at. The price of water as an instrument could also lead to an increased incentive to choose water-efficient products in renovations and renovations, as I mentioned earlier. There is also a need to review the possibility of allowing external financing of the va-infrastructure in order to overcome the lack of investment capital. Pension capital as well as private investors looking for long-term long-term long-term investments with a secure return could be suitable partners, but this requires legislative changes and a changed view of public-private collaboration in Sweden. In addition, many va-organisations around the country are far too small to attract and develop staff with modern knowledge and excellence. I am talking here about the smaller municipalities, Madam President. It may be particularly important to see how several small and sparsely populated municipalities can join forces around a joint va-organisation or co-financing. Bureaucratic barriers that make this difficult should be reviewed and removed. Madam President, I would like In times of crisis, good and high preparedness is needed, not least in agriculture, which depends on safe access to clean water. Groundwater levels, which have been very low in recent years in the summer, need to be raised in the long term. In the landscape there are also great opportunities to use the water more efficiently. We see a need to review current water legislation so that it is adapted not only to lead away water but also to collect water. For example, it may involve the construction of irrigation ponds and mixed dams of various kinds. An often mentioned source of eutrophication is individual sewers that are old, not least in coastal and lake areas. It is important that the nutrient leakage from these is reduced. At present, however, we in the Center Party believe that the instruments are not optimally designed for this purpose, as they lead to unreasonably expensive and high demands on individual property owners. Instead of compulsory accession to the municipal va-system, which has been the dominant approach, we advocate more cost-effective and flexible measures where the environmental benefit is the guiding criterion – hence our approval of the committee's proposal in that part and our rejection of the reservations of the Social Democrats and others. There is no contradiction between environmentally friendly measures and individual solutions for va. One possible solution is to encourage joint ventures where several property owners join forces for a locally designed collective solution. For the Center Party, it is important that Swedish water legislation is reviewed. I therefore call for reservation 13 on water supply and water management. In addition to this, there are five more reservations which we naturally support. Finally, I would like to mention in particular the protection of valuable arable land and the testing of small-scale hydroelectric power. In times of crisis, in addition to drinking water, two things are vital: the supply of food from domestic crops and our electricity supply. Small-scale hydroelectric plants do represent a negligible part of this, but if several of these are withdrawn, we risk losing both the electricity produced and measures to be taken to restore fish migration routes. The Center Party still believes that the testing of water activities needs to be simplified, and here, as I said, there is a common reservation. Land built up will never be able to be recreated. Therefore, further protection of farm-worthy arable land needs to be investigated. Such an investigation may clarify how municipalities should define a significant public interest and what clarifications need to be made to ensure that protection against the exploitation of arable land can be applied.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1179	Madam President, I would like There are things that we expect only work. We expect that we can go to the store and buy food. We expect electricity when we press the button. We also expect drinking water to be in the tap. This is something that does not work completely automatically, but you have to have va-wires and other parts that work for it to actually be so. Several Members have previously been involved in the va-debt that we have and that we have to deal with in some way. At national level, it can well be said that the total amounts involved are several billions. We need to find some kind of funding for this in the future. I think that Ola Johansson was exemplary in his description that this can be done in a little different ways. One can also be a little innovative, but we can note that the rules that we have today for local government mean that you cannot spend money on very long to reinvest in the business. In this case, the conditions for municipalities must in some way be changed so that they can invest in va in order to reinvest in the existing lines. I think there are many different ways of doing this. I also believe that other stakeholders can take part in the investment cost. I believe, however, that the most important thing is that we start discussing this. If we do not, this debt will increase more and more, and we will have more problems solving it in the future. A cost does not disappear, but it keeps increasing if you do nothing about it. So far, I've been talking about municipal utilities. We also have a report, and there we have a declaration on the motion for a resolution on access to municipal water and sewage. It is a pity that the government parties are not left; I think it would have been quite interesting to discuss property rights and the democratic possibility of saying no to something when you actually meet environmental and health requirements, when you actually own the land and when it is the individual who actually bears the cost. Do the government parties think it is right democratically that one is suddenly forced to pay something that one obviously does not need if one is able to meet environmental and health requirements? But for the government parties, or for the Social Democrats, who have unfortunately left the Chamber, it is clearly more important to be able to impose a cost on people of several hundred thousand than for people who have a piece of land to be able to meet the demands that exist in other ways than by spending a large sum of money on municipal elections. It is a great pity that we do not have a debate on property rights, because I think it is important in this context. The government has submitted a bill for 2020/ 21 which announced that there will be a bill on roads to sustainable water services. It has also been mentioned in the past that it will come, but as before it has been delayed. This means that it will not come during this spring, but hopefully it will come in the autumn. I find it regrettable for us as parties and politicians that we cannot bring it about and discuss it. I believe, however, that it is even more important for the municipalities that actually go and wait for such a bill and for the individual people who go and wait for it. We may find it a bit boring, but for people and municipalities it is about quite a lot of money. The proposal proposes a change in the Water Services Act, which means that municipalities should put a greater focus on assessing the need for water services. It is proposed that municipalities should examine whether there is a possibility of achieving equivalent protection for human health and the environment in a different way than with a public waste facility, which would open up the possibility of remedying inadequate individual sites in existing buildings, rather than expanding them in general. I think this is quite good. There are many different parts in municipalities where it would actually be helpful, if you also want to build new ones, that you can have individual va-solutions instead of expanding municipal va, which may be much more expensive without being better for the environment. I find it extremely frustrating that the government is not able to present a proposal to Parliament. That would make many owners of small houses happy and take the problem where it should be – do you manage the environmental requirements or not? You shouldn't be forced into the city hall. The costs are significant. It can be done in other ways, which in many cases are much better for the environment. I also believe that a property owner who has to connect his individual sewer – there may be people who actually want to connect their individual sewer to the municipal network – should not have to pay the connection fee to the municipality until the sewer has really been connected to the network. In fact, there are those who do not meet environmental requirements, and then they should be connected to the municipal water network. But you shouldn't pay a favor before you use it. I think that's quite reasonable. This would provide greater security for the individual. If a property owner wants to join at a later date, the connection fee should also be adjusted based on the development of the KPI, so that the municipality does not lose a value development. In addition, municipalities should be better at informing property owners that they have the right to split payments over a ten-year period. You don't actually have to pay the connection fee directly, you can split it up. It is a heavy investment for the individual to invest in a new individual drain, and few believe that such a heavy investment has only a lifetime of 10 years. 20 years is more practical and should also be used so that the property owners' investment is not thrown into the lake. I believe that our government has a perspective on this, and that is that it should be a municipal way or no way. I believe that property owners must have greater responsibility and opportunity, and they are the ones who take the cost. I'm in favour of reservation 20.
i-5f7134c2e1593af1-1194	Madam President, I would like In addition to the announcement made by the committee to the government that property owners who have an individual drain that meets current environmental and health requirements should not be forced to join municipal va, which we in the Liberals support, there are a couple of proposals from us that I would like to highlight in relation to land and water management. The first is to ensure the supply of drinking water. No one has missed the news feeds of the past few years every spring and summer about low groundwater levels and how to in different parts of the country are urged to save water by not filling the pool or watering the lawn. Measures such as irrigation bans have become increasingly common. The low groundwater levels and water scarcity have for several years increased the awareness of groundwater as an important resource. Climate change is expected to result in periods of impaired water supply becoming a growing problem in parts of Sweden. In order to ensure the supply of drinking water, protection of surface and groundwater is needed for the first time. In order for agriculture to cope with plant production and animal husbandry, an emergency water supply is required. In order for more water to be stored and kept in the soils, we should to a greater extent restore and build wetlands or build irrigation ponds. Wetlands can help to slow down and keep water in the landscape and prevent water runoff. The regulatory framework for irrigation dams and wetlands must be amended to allow the abstraction of water in order to act as a back-up water supply in case of drought. These measures are important in order to create greater resilience. The second proposal, Madam President, concerns beach erosion. The oceans have risen by between 21 and 24 centimetres since 1880. In 2019 alone, the seas rose by 6.1 millimetres, which is a record. At present, Greenland ice provides the largest melting water contribution to the rise in sea level. Much suggests that the melting in Greenland has gone so far that it will continue even if the temperature stops rising. Rising sea levels are a very serious concern globally, as the majority of the world's population live in low-lying areas. Cities and infrastructure will be able to be protected to some extent. The Netherlands is an example of its practical feasibility. However, the rise in sea levels will mean that many people need to settle elsewhere. A recent study published in Nature shows that some 200 million people will have to move because the parts of the earth where they live today will be underwater in the future. The same study also shows that 1 billion people are estimated to suffer from water shortages within 30 years. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, rising sea levels lead, among other things, to increasing problems with beach erosion. Beachfront settlements are often exposed. Falsterbonäset is particularly vulnerable to the effects of the rise in sea level, and in some places along the southern Swedish coasts the situation is critical. Everything indicates that the situation along our coasts will worsen, partly because of the harsher weather that comes with climate change. The risk of serious flooding will increase as the occurrence of severe storms with associated temporarily high water levels increases. This means that important natural values, tourist interests and recreational areas are at risk of being lost. For people living in danger areas, erosion can be a personal tragedy when houses and property disappear into the sea. That is why the state needs to take greater responsibility for combating beach erosion. Sweden needs an active coastal policy based on research and knowledge and on collaboration between the municipalities concerned and state actors. The last thing I want to lift, Madam President, is to restore previously drained and overgrown wetlands. It can have major positive effects on both the climate and the environment. Newly added and restored wetlands can help reduce eutrophication in watercourses. A wetland built in or near a densely populated area can also contribute to recreational and outdoor activities for the general public. Climate change brings challenges for densely populated cities with large areas of hard surface. In heavy rain, for example, the load on sewage and stormwater systems may be significant. In this context, wetlands and ponds could be a solution. By building wetlands and ponds in urban areas, the load on the water network can be reduced. Furthermore, the risk of discharges of pollutants into seas, lakes and watercourses can be reduced. In summary, the wetlands have many positive effects. We therefore believe that the aid system currently in place for the construction of wetlands should also include measures in urban areas. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservation number 10, which deals with wetlands and ponds.
