i-f631550c23a244ec-2	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the former Minister for Rural Affairs why she and the government carried out the change in the Swedish Hunter Association's general mission regarding hunting and game conservation in a short time and without broader anchoring. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked which assessment was the basis for her and the Government's decision to change the general mission of the Swedish Hunter Association and what the problem was with the mission as it worked earlier. Madam President, I would like The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to emphasise once again that the general mission has not been abolished. It is developed to pass judicial review and review, while safeguarding the important role of the hunting corps as a peoples' movement in Swedish game conservation. For a long time, legal criticism has been levelled at the design of the general mandate, particularly the fact that it is problematic from the point of view of procurement. In 2016, the European Commission launched a pilot case against Sweden. The case closed on 12 June 2020, when the Commission accepted Sweden's reply that a review of the allocation of funds from the Viltvårdsfond is under way at the initiative of the Government and that it covers the distinction between grants and what needs to be procured in accordance with the Procurement Directive. Over the years, a number of attempts have been made to align the general mandate with procurement law. In order to create a long-term efficient, sustainable and transparent procedure for the allocation of funds from the V iltarvårdsfonden, the Government decided on 7 January 2021 to instruct the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, among other things, to ensure that measures relating to game monitoring, traffic search and biungulate game management are carried out. For this purpose, funds from the Viltvårdsfond may be used and the procurement rules shall be taken into account. Madam President, I would like The new structure is a development of the role of the Swedish Hunter Association where an adaptation has taken place to, among other things, procurement legislation. However, the Swedish Hunter Association's special position in the country's game conservation will be preserved by the Government intending to award the Association a multi-annual organisation grant from the V iltarvårdsfonden for its nationwide game conservation work from 2022 onwards. According to Section 41 of the Hunting Act (1987:259), it is the Government that decides how to use the Wildlife Fund's funds. For me and the government, it is crucial to have a good dialogue with various stakeholders involved in the government's decisions and to deal with issues in a listening and respectful way. The Government considers that the changes decided, in addition to making the award procedure compatible with the current legislation, will promote the country's overall game management. Hunting and game conservation in Sweden has long been the character of a popular movement where the voluntary involvement of landowners and hunters plays a crucial role. The government has no intention of changing this.
i-f631550c23a244ec-9	Madam President and the Minister. Almost a hundred years ago, in 1938, the Swedish Hunter Association was given a general assignment to care for parts of hunting and game conservation in Sweden. So that's almost a hundred years ago. No special authority was deemed necessary when there was already an organisation with credibility, knowledge and contact with the hunting corps. The general commission given to the Hunters' Association to handle parts of the hunting and game conservation in the country was clubbed in the Riksdag. The following year – 1939 – the State Hunting Card was introduced, the funds of which entered the Wildlife Fund. These funds would be used to promote hunting within the country, and this has also happened. In 2005, the hunting and game conservation mission was specified in an investigation by Madeleine Emmervall. There she notes that the hunters' union has done well in carrying out, according to the general mandate, the task of leading parts of wildlife conservation and hunting in the country. ..................................................... Despite the fact that this has worked, the government has now chosen to change the general mission. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will administer procurement of traffic search and game monitoring, among other things. The reason is said to be that in connection with a so-called pilot case, i.e. a notification against Sweden, the EU has demanded that some of the tasks currently carried out by the Swedish Association of Hunters should instead be subject to procurement – this despite the fact that we can take part of the government's diarium and see that the European Commission closed the case in June 2020 without any demands for change. I repeat, Madam President, without calling for change. The Commission believes that the issue is internally Swedish and does not affect other EU countries. World-leading expertise has been saying for quite some time that the general mission does not require public procurement. The LOU, i.e. the Public Procurement Act, applies to purchases of goods, services or works – not grants. A broad majority in the Swedish parliament has long supported the general mission, but it is not something that the government has taken into account. There has now been widespread criticism of the government's way of not anchoring the decision. The hunters' association has clearly said that it is strongly opposed to how the government has decided and managed the change of the Wildlife Fund and the general mission, and also several political parties have strongly criticised the management. Madam President, I would like Despite this opposition, the government carried out the change in the general mission. I have therefore asked the Minister for Rural Development – a title that, by the way, does not exist in the Government's ministerial portfolio – what did not work and what worked so badly that it chose to carry out such a fast process without broad anchoring. In fact, Madam President, I feel that I am not getting an answer to my questions.
i-f631550c23a244ec-15	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important interpellation, Alexandra Anstrell! It has been a tough time for rural areas since 2014, Madam President, when the Social Democrats gave the Green Party the right of veto in rural policy, predatory policy and mobility policy. This is a typical such issue. For those who do not know what the general mission is all about, there is an excellent account on the Hunter Association's website. Perhaps it would be good if anyone who sees this, and also the Minister, took note of the information about what the general mission is. When the Hunter League was formed in 1830, it was done, among other things, because the state did not act forcefully enough to save the leaner cloven-hoofed tribes. The hunters' association was thus formed because game conservation was not adequately managed by the state. A hundred years later, in 1938, there was a new hunting law. The Hunter Association was then given a general assignment to handle parts of hunting and game care in Sweden. As the Hunter Association writes, no special authority was needed, for there was already an organization with credibility, knowledge and contact with the hunters' corps. The general assignment, which the Hunters' Association was given to handle parts of hunting and game conservation in the country, was also joined in the Riksdag. The following year, 1939, the State Hunting Card was introduced, whose funds entered the Wildlife Fund. These funds would be used to promote hunting within the country. The Wildlife Fund consists of hunting card fees paid by all hunters in Sweden and then distributed. So it is not, as one might think, a tax or something generally paid by others, but only the hunters who pay it. Just as Alexandra Anstrell said, why fix something that isn't broken? Why has the government made this change? As I said, Madam President, the government consists of two parties: the Green Party and the Social Democrats. In this case, it has been easy for the Social Democrats to sell out the hunters. For example, those interested can read that on their Facebook a Member of Parliament called it a victory when this decision came. Then the environmentalist Member of Parliament raged against not going any further. I think it is a relevant question: why has the government taken this decision? What was it the hunters misbehaved? Why do you doubt Sweden's most important game conservation organisation Swedish Hunters' Association – the union that was formed because the state did not behave in the 1800s? I think this deserves an explanation. Why does the government doubt Sweden's hunting corps? Is it so simple that this was an important issue for the Green Party? Did they want to redistribute the hunters' money to other organizations? But then there must be some analysis in the background that the mission has been mismanaged and that there was something that the Minister and the Government were dissatisfied with. Then I think the minister can look into the camera and explain to Ulf Berg, chairman of the Hunters' Association Dalarna, what it is that the hunters have done badly. Or is it as simple as the environmentalists wrote? Is this a victory for the Green Party?
i-f631550c23a244ec-24	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Alexandra, who has made this interpellation, for having a discussion with the new Minister for Rural Development. We have discussed these issues with the old rural ministers in the past. A broad majority in the Swedish Parliament has supported the general mission. If I do not remember correctly, all the party leaders had to speak before the elections about how important it was to maintain the general mission. If I remember correctly, none of the party leaders said that this would be changed. Yet this government was in such a terrible hurry, despite the fact that the European Union has not demanded this. Despite trying to blame the EU, Madam President, this was done in haste to remove the general mission and transfer it to the Environmental Protection Agency. It would have been a little more decent for the government to return to Parliament. It wasn't a panic. This could have been discussed. There could have been other solutions, and the solution we had worked. Sweden could have stood up for this solution against the EU if there had been any discussion, which it has not done according to the documents I have read. They drove this through in January and quickly decided to change the general mission, despite a political majority against it and although all the party leaders expressed that they thought it was good as it was. Then comes the next question, and perhaps the Minister can answer. You increase your hunting card fee from SEK 300 to SEK 400. So it is thought that there should be an additional amount of money from the country's hunters. They take care of wildlife conservation in the country, make sure that we have a game strain that works. Yet at this point you think you should go out and take even more money from the hunters. I would like an answer to what it is supposed to be used for when the fee is increased from SEK 300 to SEK 400 per year. What was the reason for this increase, and why was it so urgent?
i-f631550c23a244ec-32	Madam President, I would like I hear the tone is high from the moderate Members of Parliament. In addition, one of them engages in conspiracy theories and suggests that there are other reasons than those stated in response from the government. This applies both to what I myself said a few weeks ago standing here in the speaker's chair, Madam President, and to the answers that my predecessor has given in the past. Of course, you can put your head in the sand and say that nothing has happened. What has happened since 1938? Let me be very clear: We are pleased with how the Swedish Hunter Association has done this task. However, Members are well aware that Sweden has been a member of the European Union since the beginning of the 21st century. Moderate Members are also very well aware that the EU started a pilot five years ago as early as 2016. It was precisely about the nature of the award, not in what is a grant, but in what is considered to be some form of compensation. In this case, it was about game conservation; we have already gone through it. This would then fall under the procurement rules. Members are well aware of this. Members are trying to blow the eyes of hunters who are interested in watching this debate. It is important that the facts are right. MEPs are well aware that the reason why the EU closed the pilot was that the Swedish Government replied that it will carry out a review so that it will have a clean farm in relation to what is supposed to be a subsidy. The Government has announced and made a decision on a multi-annual organisation support to the Swedish Hunter Association. Why? Because they are an important organization and because they do the best they can. In the parts that both the EU and the Government Office's lawyers consider to be subject to procurement law, we have not decommissioned the general mission but developed it. I will come back to what I mean. Our assessment is that if we had done nothing instead, we would have allowed the general mission to become very vulnerable and perhaps changed from Brussels. I do not think that would have pleased the moderate Members of Parliament. Perhaps it would have allowed for further criticism of the government – perhaps it would have pleased the moderate MPs; I do not know – but it would not have pleased the country's hunters. It certainly would not have pleased those of us who believe in cooperation, which has been extremely important when it comes to this peoples' movement. Madam President, I would like That is why this change was made – not by abolishing the general mission, which was claimed here, but by developing it. What has it meant? This is where I mean spreading conspiracy theories that it should go to all sorts of things. Madam President, I would like What does the first award look like? We can note that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decided in May this year, in accordance with the new rules, on grants for 2021. Eighteen organisations applied for grants, but only two organisations were awarded grants. One was the Hunters' National Association; the other was a hunting dog club. The lion's share – almost the total – went to the Hunters' Federation. Why? Because they're doing a very good job. I therefore believe that this whole discussion on abolition is wrong. Reality is the enemy of anyone who claims these are conspiracies to get to the hunters. It is exactly the opposite – this change we have made because we believe that we have thereby secured the general mission. We also believe that in this way we can continue to work very well with the hunters in our country.
i-f631550c23a244ec-42	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not know if the Minister has not read my questions carefully enough, but there are no questions that the general mission should have been phased out. I think I have been quite clear that I have questioned the change in the general mission. The facts are important, as the Minister said. I agree. Madam President, I would like I was interested in what it was that didn't work, so that the government had to, without any broad anchoring, have such a quick process in this great change. I have listened, read the answer and listened again, but I do not actually feel that I am getting any answers. There are tens of thousands of wildlife accidents in Sweden every year. A compilation of the statistics on reported wild game accidents in the first half of this year, i.e. 2021, shows that wild game accidents are increasing in large parts of the country. However, most accidents take place in the autumn and in the winter, and we haven't had time to do so yet. I do not know if the Minister has been involved in any search for a traffic accident at any time. I do, and they're doing great. My father was one of those amazing people who got up in time and out of time to take care of or search for a damaged animal. So it doesn't matter whether it's Christmas Eve or election day, if it's in the middle of family dinner or breakfast coffee – these women and men are always there. They stand up to reduce the suffering of wild animals that any of us humans have run into. I helped Dad register the wildlife accidents he helped out with and know that it's not something that you get directly rich at doing. It's about good hunting ethics and high morals, about people who volunteer because they believe it's a good thing. How on earth can we get, if I quote the Minister, a popular movement where the voluntary involvement of landowners and hunters plays a crucial role? How can you make it increase by telling them that they are not doing what they are supposed to do and that you no longer have confidence in Sweden's hunters. This is at a time when most of the voluntary involvement, whether it is in a political party or in an association, is decreasing. Madam President, I would like I'm not making this equation go together. Nor do I get the Minister's speech together to answer my questions. I still wonder, ‘ What didn't work? ' What was it that worked so badly that they chose to implement a decision in such a fast process without a broad anchoring? In many cases when you are dissatisfied with something, it is important to give feedback. In that case, the Hunters' Association could have improved what the government was not satisfied with. Wouldn't that have been appropriate?
i-f631550c23a244ec-53	Madam President, I would like Let's sort out the conspiracy theory, as the stressed minister claims to exist. I understand that the Minister does not read Swedish Hunting, but I recommend him to do so. It's a good source of information. There he can read an interview with environmentalists and hear what they themselves say, so the minister can either withdraw the statement of conspiracy theory or apologize. That's his choice. According to the former Minister for Rural Development, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, it was the Green Party that pushed forward on this issue and that basically wanted to remove the general mission of the Hunters' Association. Is that right? then asked Maria Gardfjell. Yes, answer Maria Gardfjell. After all, this whole structure is now completely different from what it has been before. In the past, we have had the problem that it has just been that criticism from the EU that it has not been in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and that there have also been doubts about additional organisations that have received money. The accounts have also been poor. It has not been possible to read out what the money was used for. There are a variety of factors that cause the Green Party to land in this decision, although we have a debate within the party with future proposals. We are pleased that the proposal has been developed in dialogue between different parties and has been very much involved in this solution. So this is something that the Green Party is behind. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is therefore not a conspiracy theory, but the Green Party takes full credit for the change in the general mission. Then we are back to what I said in the first sentence of this debate, namely that the Social Democrats have sold out the countryside to the Green Party. I repeat my question: what was the Minister and the Social Democrats dissatisfied with regarding the general mission to Sweden's hunters?
i-f631550c23a244ec-57	Madam President, I would like Now the discussion became even more interesting in view of what the Minister said here, namely that on 12 July 2016 the government received an EU pilot. Yet the party leader of the Social Democrats and the Prime Minister sit in an interview before the 2018 elections and say that the system should not be changed. So the general mission would remain as it had been. It would not change the system of the general mission. The government has thus had the opportunity to look through this for two years. For two years, it's been ignored. At the same time, the electorate has been promised to do so, because it was well understood that this was an important issue. Then the Green Party has apparently pushed the government. The government has then reduced its weight and agreed to change this, despite the fact that there is a large majority in the Swedish parliament not to implement this. For 83 years we have had this general mission. The Prime Minister, in an election campaign, has nevertheless promised not to change this general mission, even though he has known that we have an EU pilot from 2016. It has been skipped for two years and then changed in January, two years later. As everyone understands, it is not certain that the promises made by the Social Democrats before an election will be implemented during the term of office itself, but that a different path will be taken. I have still not received an answer as to why the hunting card fee has been increased from SEK 300 to SEK 400. How are we going to use the money the hunters pay in?
i-f631550c23a244ec-62	Madam President, I would like It is a matter of course, and it may even be that I myself have said in opposition that I do not get an answer to my questions. That is not the case now, of course, but if Members are happy a little bit more, I can repeat what I read out in the interpellation response. Why was the development of the general mission carried out? You ask why it happened so quickly. I'd say five years isn't that fast. After all, the pilot process started already in 2016. The reason why it was closed on 12 June 2020 was that the European Commission accepted Sweden's response that, at the government's initiative, there was a review of the allocation of funds from the Wildlife Fund and that it specifically covered the distinction between grants and what had to be procured in accordance with the Procurement Directive. That was the basis for the questions that came from the European Commission. Had we not done this, the risk is quite great that the European Union, in this case the European Commission, would have decided instead on how to post it. I think that would have been worse for the country's hunters and for wildlife conservation. Although Lars Beckman, and to some extent also Sten Bergheden, is aware that it is the Green Party that is responsible for all the evils in this world that does not rule a party that received 4.5% in the last elections throughout the European Union, nor does the whole government. I can assure Lars Beckman of that. If Lars Beckman wants to do this kind of political squabble, he has an election year ahead of him – congratulations! But the fact is that the general mission is not abolished. I fully share Alexandra Anstrell's view that many of the people who help, often non-profit, make an amazing contribution. With the change we have now made, it ensures that this can continue. Why do I say that? Because, unlike Members, I am looking at reality. And the reality, Lars Beckman, Alexandra Anstrell and Sten Bergheden, is that at the first award it is almost exclusively the Swedish Hunter Association that receives resources. Why is that? Because they're doing a good job. They are doing this in an excellent way. Through this development, we have ensured that the European machinery, which has the task of following up procurement issues and other matters, no longer looks at this. And we have secured that the resources go there. Sten Bergheden concludes with the question: What are the resources for? Yeah, I mentioned it. The Swedish Hunter Association will receive a multi-annual organisation grant because it has a nationwide operation and because we believe in a good collaboration with this peoples' movement which also makes a very important contribution. To those hunters who are watching this debate and who have been intimidated by different kinds of accents, I say: The general mission has been developed, and we see that the Swedish hunters have a very important role to play in the future as well. As I said, in the first allocation of resources that took place in May this year, Sweden's hunters received precisely these resources, and that is because they are doing an excellent job.
i-f631550c23a244ec-71	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that five years is a very long time. However, it had five years to anchor these important decisions in the large organizations that obviously have an interest in knowing how things are going. What happened during these five years? Why did the government not address these issues during these five years? It is not possible to blame the European Union alone, as if the European Union were some other person sitting down in Brussels. After all, we are part of the EU and have the opportunity to influence, and then it is important to take this responsibility. This is because in 2016 it was a member of the Rovjursföreningen who complained to the European Commission about how it looks in Sweden. The Commission then made a pilot case sent to Sweden which replied that this would be reviewed. Then nothing of what we can know in public happened. The Commission later believes that the issue is closed because it is internally Swedish and does not affect other EU countries. Madam President, I would like The Minister speculates on what could have happened without the very quick decision. One can always speculate, but it is better to talk about the reality that the Minister also refers to in his speech. In my opinion, this year's outcome was right and good, but what about next year? Can the Minister guarantee that the money will not go to fighters? It is important to take responsibility for the decisions you make. It is also important to anchor these decisions. I still have not explained why it was suddenly so urgent after five years of doing it.
i-f631550c23a244ec-76	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have also had the privilege of leading governments during our EU membership. None of the Members of this debate sat in these governments, but they should nevertheless be well aware that there is a constant dialogue between the Government Office, the European Commission and sometimes other bodies in matters that are important to Sweden, so of course also in this case. The reason why the EU closed this is that it feels that it has received satisfactory answers that the Swedish Government should review this, not in the sense of abolishing the general mission, which is far too valuable and contributes great values to our country, but because it understands the problem and is prepared to develop it. This is exactly what is going on. This does not happen immediately, however, but the process has been going on for five years, which is entirely in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. If, on the other hand, the general mission were to be abolished, as has sometimes been said in the debate, it would have been a completely different matter. But that is not the case; it is a question of development. It is good that the moderate Members now also acknowledge that. Alexandra Anstrell says it looks good now but that no one can know what it looks like next year. However, these resources must be used for game conservation, and game conservation is defined in Section 4 of the Hunting Act: Wild game management includes, through specific measures, ensuring the protection and support of wild game and adapting hunting to the availability of wild game. ..................................................... This is what resources should be used for, and they must not be used for anything other than game conservation, Alexandra Anstrell.
i-f631550c23a244ec-82	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the former Minister for Rural Affairs when she intends to act in order for Sweden to follow the Riksdag's decision that we should have a wolf tribe of 170 – 270 wolves, if she intends to come to the Riksdag with proposals for a different number of Sweden to have in her wolf tribe, what measures the Government takes to ensure that a too large wolf tribe does not prevent Sweden's food production from increasing and how the Government intends to act in order for people living near the wolf to feel safe. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I believe that the wolf is more important for rural areas than animal production, jobs and biodiversity and whether I intend to take measures to safeguard animal production and biodiversity. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me whether I think it is reasonable for an animal keeper to have to fence the waterline into all pastures in order to avoid predatory attacks and whether I intend to take measures to secure the archipelago residents of Stockholm County against swimming wolves who, in turn, can attack. In addition, Alexandra Anstrell has asked whether I intend to take any action that will allow a fence with current predator-repellent fences of the entire Stockholm archipelago and how I intend to support animal keepers in the Stockholm archipelago in order for them to increase food security. I answer all the interpellations at once. Madam President, I would like The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and kungsörn should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the EU Species and Habitats Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Animal management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and other national targets. Parliament's approval of the predator bill (prop. 2012/ 13:191) meant that the Riksdag decided on several targets for the wolf tribe in Sweden. One of the targets refers to the reference value for favourable conservation status of the Swedish wolf population, i.e. the number of wolves that can be considered sufficient for the Swedish wolf population to be considered as having a favourable conservation status. The Parliament decided that the reference value would be somewhere between 170 and 270 individuals. According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was to assess, after Parliament's treatment, what the exact reference value for wolf would be within the proposed range approved by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and report the value to the European Commission in accordance with the Species and Habitats Directive. The parliamentary decision was about the reporting of predators that Sweden did in 2013. According to the European Commission's guidelines, the reported reference value cannot be an interval but must be an exact value. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2013 that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden would be 270. The reference value for favourable conservation status is a value that must not be underestimated, i.e. simply a floor for the wolf strain. According to the European Commission's guidelines, a favourable conservation status benchmark should be developed from a vulnerability analysis. It is about finding a level of the tribe where it is not at risk of extinction. The vulnerability analysis underlying the benchmark was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of the European Commission's guidelines. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and on the basis of the new analysis to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that in view of the population's inbreeding rate, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Member States report the conservation status situation to the European Commission every six years. Between the reports, countries need to update developments. Last reported by Sweden, in 2019 it was stated that the reference value for favourable conservation status for wolf was deemed to be 300 wolves. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden now rests on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States. Viltskadecenter has compiled and evaluated how close wolves should be handled. The measures to be implemented in a given area will depend on the problem situations that have arisen and the assessment of how they are likely to develop. The State provides subsidies for preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences, or compensation for damage caused by predators. It is also possible to grant protection hunting after assessment by the county administrative board d it an application for protection hunting received. In addition, the county administrative boards may decide on the hunting of wolves when the maintenance of the wolf's favourable conservation status is not made more difficult. The county administrative boards in central Sweden decided on a licence hunt during the hunting year 2020/ 21, and the hunt was directed so that more wolves had to be felled in counties where the concentration of the wolf tribe was the most frequent. I believe that these measures contribute to greater security while keeping biologically valuable pastures open with grazing animals and that food production is not affected. It should be possible for people to live, live and work in their green industries in the countryside. The Government is continuously working on measures to meet Parliament's objectives on predatory policy, food strategy and the protection of biodiversity, as well as our EU legal commitments in this area.
i-f631550c23a244ec-99	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister concludes in his reply to me and my colleague Sten Bergheden that the Minister considers that the measures taken today contribute to greater security while keeping biologically valuable pastures open with grazing animals and that food production is not affected. I do not know whether something can be said in Parliament that something is tone-deaf, Madam President, but now I do anyway: one could perceive the government's predatory policy as that. I wonder if the government even cares about our vulnerable animal owners. I'm talking about those who are trying to make sure we have nice meat on our plates, those who make sure we have open landscapes. They're the ones who have to worry about their animals at night. They are the ones who, after a possible predator attack, have to go out into the pasture and search for their injured animals and kill a sheep that has a sharpening bloody hole in the throat but has not yet died. They're their friends. They are the ones who have to handle all the drills about the attack, both practical and bureaucratic. The same people and perhaps more people in the area experience enormous insecurity and want to apply for protection hunting at the county administrative board. The County Administrative Board accepts the application, and it is a public document that in itself poses a huge security risk to the victim. The animal rights terrorists are not to be played with. I know that from my own experience. Madam President, I would like From all sides, these keepers are exposed. No matter what they do, it's gonna be hard. Finally, it will be difficult to find motivation to continue to have animals. I believe that food production is affected in Sweden. Swedish lamb industry is small-scale. They now have an average of 33 ewes spread over some 8,000 farms, and this is decreasing. Many are afraid of predator attacks and simply do not want to expose their animals, themselves and their family to such trauma. Many do not see profitability as the costs of fences are too high. Sure, you get 50 kroner per meter in contributions to predator-repellent fences, but to be honest, it is not enough. In his reply, the Minister refers to the 2012 bill entitled A sustainable predator policy. The bill contains information that 40 per cent of the lamb we eat is produced in Sweden. Now nine years later, the figure is down to 29 percent. Surely food production is affected, and what does the government do about it? Nothing, because the government seems to be happy with what they're doing. What do the government and the minister say to those who got 30 get demolished on the border between Stockholm and Sörmland last Saturday? It was probably the same wolf or someone from its family who tore sheep between Nykvarn and Gnesta a week before. It swam out to an island and feasted on sheep. What does the Minister say to the sheep-owner who simply does not dare to apply for protection hunting because you are afraid to expose yourself and your family to hatred and threats? Is it defensible? I wonder how this rhymes with having a predatory policy and management where domestic animal husbandry is not significantly hampered and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. How is socio-economic considerations taken into account in this case?
i-f631550c23a244ec-109	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not know for what time in order I hear the same answer from the government. It has been about the same answer for five six years when it comes to the wolf tribe here in Sweden. Meanwhile, the wolf tribe has grown. Today, we are up to 400 - 450 wolves that ravage, take dogs and tambos and frighten and worry people in the countryside. But the government gives the same answer. There is no intention to do anything about this. It is also not intended to follow the decision made by the Riksdag in 2013 of 170 – 270 wolves. The same answer from the government is given to us. Today we have almost 450 wolves, almost twice as many as the Riksdag decided on. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's own estimate is that we need 300 wolves, but the government has released the number of wolves up to 400 – 450. On what grounds? None, of course, but here too it is the Green Party that tells the government what to think and think. Some general information on the wolf, Madam President: Many believe that the wolf is endangered. There are some 200,000 wolves in the world – all over North America, all of Asia and Europe – and wolves are hunted in Europe. You don't dalt with the wolf in the same way as Sweden does, you make sure to keep it shy and away from civilization. This is what we need to do here in Sweden too, so that we can stop the attacks on domesticity and the concerns that are spreading in rural areas. There are historical examples of wolves not only taking domestic animals but actually attacking people. This is an animal that has been kept from civilization and made sure that it stays at a level that is reasonable. We have a wolf tribe together with Norway and partly also with Finland. Denmark, on the other hand, makes sure to keep the wolf away from the country. No one blames them for that, but they have the right to keep the wolf away from Denmark. But in Sweden we breed wolves, at the expense of domestication, dogs and rural life. But now, Madam President, it is not the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that decides how many wolves we should have in the country, it is the Swedish parliament. The Parliament made a decision in 2013 of 170 – 270 wolves. The reference value would be within that range, and this is clearly reflected in the decision. So it wouldn't be 300. Nor, of course, would there be 450 wolves, but just 170 to 270 wolves. The government has not bothered to follow up on this, but has handed over responsibility to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and, of course, to the Green Party, which governs this issue. My question to the Minister is: When did the Parliament decide to raise the number of wolves from 170 to 270 to 300 and today 450 wolves? When did the Riksdag allow wolf regeneration to take place in the reindeer husbandry area? It is clear in the bill that we should not have any wolf rejuvenation in that area, but that has been allowed by the government, which has created concerns for many reindeer keepers. There are no such parliamentary decisions. The government's wolf policy has no foundation here in the Riksdag.
i-f631550c23a244ec-117	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a very important interpellation. It is just as Sten Bergheden says, that this debate has been going on for a number of years – since 2014, I would say. The Social Democrats have systematically sold out the countryside to the other government party. This may be air tax, be it as fuel for its diesel car in Valbo, as I did this morning – SEK 18 per litre – it may be in the case of extinguished street lights, as the whole of Hälsingland wrote about, potholes in the roads or the unparable road in Ockelbo. Madam President, I would like We cannot, therefore, pursue a policy against the population, as this government does. If you are a family with children in Lingbo, I think you should be able to let your children out on the farm. If you are a sheep farmer in Vallsta you should be able to be a sheep farmer in Vallsta and not feed wolf. And, for that matter, if you have a hunting companion and go into the woods and hunt, you should be able to let loose the hunting companion. Or if you are a small business and have employees who are out in the woods and move around, it is a work environment issue for the employer, and of course for the employees, that there are too many predators. Madam President, I would like This reality is a blind spot for the minister and government, except in the case of a wolf coming to Stockholm. Then it will be driven before you can say the guy's wing, rightly, for psychosocial reasons. If a wolf comes to Nacka and moves among children, it should of course be shot. But children are equal in Lingbo, which is located outside Ockelbo if the minister wants to know. When families with children express their frustration in the Worker's Sheet, they do so quite rightly. I understand that the Minister does not read Swedish Hunting and Hunting Newspapers, and perhaps not SVT News in Gävleborg either. But if he had, the headline is just: Record many wolves in Gävleborg.
i-f631550c23a244ec-122	The wolf population has increased significantly in the 2000s, from a few single vargrevir in 2004 to around twenty in 2020. We could have removed more wolves in the county to achieve our regional goals, but the tribe had to do it nationally. Politically, they want the tribe to spread out so that it becomes more sparse. But as long as it doesn't spread, we won't be able to spar it out. This is what the administrator at Gävleborg County Administrative Board says. Madam President, I would like In Gävleborg alone, there are over 120 wolves. In small Gävleborg there are 120 wolves. Think now, Madam President, if Parliament's decision had been followed by 170 – 270 wolves, as Sten Bergheden said. Let us play with the idea that the Green Party had instructed the authorities about 170 wolves instead of 400 wolves. Then we might have had about twenty wolves in Gävleborg. That wouldn't have been a problem. It had created the understanding of the population that one must have. But now, Madam President, it is an unsustainable situation for the children's family in Lingbo, for the sheep farmer in Vallsta, for the farmer in Kilafors or for the farmer who goes out with his hunting companion. I would like to know, Minister, whether it would not be reasonable to have a reasonable predatory pressure in Gävleborg and in Sweden.
i-f631550c23a244ec-125	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate. The Minister emphasises that we should preserve species. But we're not talking about exterminating any species. We're talking about putting people's security first. A species should not restrict people's freedom and security. What are the consequences when security issues are not taken seriously by politicians? That is an important question to ask. Madam President, I would like I think the minister should listen to parents who are afraid to let their children out on the farm because their land is crossed by several vargrevir. I think you should look at the torn-up farm animals and the domestic animals. Preschools that don't dare to let the children play, I think the minister should visit. You should also listen to those companies that have been forced to close down because of wolf attacks. Madam President, I would like You should really come to Värmland and listen to all these target groups because Värmland is one of the most dense counties in Sweden. Wolf attacks are taking place there on a continuous basis, and there are companies that are closing down because of an irresponsible policy on predators. Madam President, I would like We are talking about favorable conservation status, that we will 170 – 270 individuals to achieve the least viable population. We Moderates believe that Parliament decisions from 2013 should form the basis for Sweden's management of the wolf. In the present circumstances, with a more densed wolf population in the country, the reference value should be in the lower range of 170 individuals compared to where it is today. Then we can also talk about the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which should not have free interpretation rights from the government, past the Swedish parliament and government. The Environmental Protection Agency should not ignore the actual text of the Directive. Recommendations should not be interpreted as binding or used as legal instruments. We can for a moment put away MVP, the smallest viable population, or GY B S, favorable conservation status, and just talk about people's security. It is the one who should be at the forefront of this eternal wolf debate. Here the Minister, Madam President, has missed the whole point. When you listen to the Minister's answer, he does not mention these words – people's security – once. That says a lot about the government's priority. I think it will be really disrespectful to put the wolf's freedom before children's rights, so that they will not feel safe to play outside, in front of entrepreneurship in the countryside and in front of the people who have the wolf next to the house. That is disrespectful policy, Madam President, and that is what we need to talk about today. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question. How will he create this security for the target groups that I have listed?
i-f631550c23a244ec-134	Madam President, I would like There were a number of questions. I'll try to graze them in my four minutes. I shall begin with the first question from Alexandra Anstrell, namely the Swedish countryside and its possibilities for development. I shall say without a doubt that, during the time of the present government, more has been invested than ever during the time when the country's government was led by moderates. At that time much of the discussion was focused on seeing only the big cities. We announce 28 1⁄2 billion in the budget that has now been submitted to Parliament for agricultural and rural investments. It is about everything from increasing Swedish food production to ensuring that there is a functioning infrastructure, both roads, broadband and other things that are necessary. You have to make sure that there are sandwiches so that there is fuel to refuel. You have to make sure that grocery stores work. These are, of course, fundamental prerequisites for our living and viable competitiveness in both agriculture and rural areas. Madam President, I would like Add to that that this also happens at a time when we see a reindustrialisation in parts of the country which in the past, decade after decade, saw jobs disappear and thus also people. I believe that there is every reason to believe in the Swedish countryside and to believe in Swedish agriculture, and I really do. Madam President, I would like Then came a question of people's security. I have always tried to have respect for political opponents, even when we have had different opinions. I think it is a very important part of our democracy that we discuss and debate with different approaches. But I have never questioned the purpose or intentions of the Moderates. I always thought you believed in what you do. To stand here and say that, just because we can have different opinions on some issue, we do not look to people's security is not correct. People's safety always comes first. It does for the Moderates, and it does for the Social Democrats. And listen and be amazed, I think it does for all the other parties as well. As always when it comes to different goals and values, one must try to find a balance. In this case, it is exactly as Members say; Parliament has taken decisions. These decisions also come from EU legislation, the Species and Habitats Directive. This does not only apply to figures and intervals, as Members are talking about, but it should also be based on a scientific basis. That is the basis for these 300 that we are discussing. I think Members are well aware of this. Rather, this is about once again trying to score party political points by pointing out that there would be something strange behind this. It doesn't. Does this mean that everything is peace and joy? No, of course it's not. As Members say, there has been an increase in wolf. It is against this background that we see changes in regulations in terms of both how we replace preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences, and damage caused by predators. The government has removed the previous ceiling of 80% so that 100% of the costs are covered today, precisely because it is – I understand – a frustration when you are affected by this. Similarly, a licence hunt is also carried out. In the last winter there were 24 wolves, if I am not completely wrong, and the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg decided on another 4 wolves that had to be convicted. Of course, in the autumn, after the last list, there will also be a decision on licence hunting. There's work going on. I do not think that we will ever get into a situation where we can say: and now we have just the right balance. 中 Things are changing, not least, I would say, the Swedish countryside in the coming years has an excellent opportunity to come again.
i-f631550c23a244ec-143	Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister refers to the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, according to the bill A sustainable predator policy from 2012 would largely be free to set the minimum number of wolves in Sweden. I wasn't there in 2012, but the minister's been there a long time. But I've done my homework on the bill. The Parliament decided on an interval of 170 to 270 wolves, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was asked to return with a specific figure in between, as it was claimed that the EU wanted a specific figure and not an interval. It says in the bill: After the Riksdag's examination of the issue, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will, according to the Government, be given the task of assessing where the reference value is within the proposed range t. I argue that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency may not have really followed their mission when they went to the maximum of 270. It's not anywhere between 170 and 270 – but. If it's going to be right at the end, it has to be right from the start, I think. It wasn't really here. The bill also said: a Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should continue to work with genetic enhancement, primarily to facilitate the movement of naturally immigrated wolves to the wolf population in Central Sweden. There was nothing more. So they were not assigned by the government or parliament in this case to run their own race. However, it may be understood that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given free access by the Government when the Government commissioned the Authority in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and on the basis of that analysis to investigate what is required for the population to have favourable conservation status. But here too it is said that the analysis should be updated, not the parliamentary decision. Only the Riksdag can do that. Madam President, I would like It feels like the government is trying to blame itself on a nine-year-old bill, on the one hand, and the EU on the other. In fact, however, it is the government that does not ensure that parliamentary decisions are complied with, nor does it seem that it intends to raise the issue democratically. It's strange. It is also strange that the Minister is standing in this Chamber saying that the measures taken today contribute to greater security when there is evidence to the contrary from many quarters. Marléne Lund Kopparklint talked about parents who do not dare to send their children out to play and about preschools where you do not dare to be out playing. We can't have it that way. By the way, did you know that the wolf is a good swimmer? It also runs very quickly and efficiently. During one night, it can safely travel 70 kilometres. Since the wolf is so mobile, it can live in a fairly large area. One way to protect oneself from wolf is to use the predator-repellent fences. In Belgium a week ago, there was a wolf attack on two horses that was taken to death. Shall we fence all our animals with predator-repellent fences, which consist of four threads and are 1,10 meters high, everywhere? Is it the kind of landscape we want? During the month of August, a wolf has ravaged Shundareviret and attacked and killed quite a few sheep. The County Administrative Board now urges owners who have property against the water to secure their pastures against the waterline. Does it promote the right of public access in Sweden? Should we have such a landscape? In Haninge, where I live, 75% of the municipality consists of water. Madam President, I would like I'm not getting any answers to my questions about fences at the waterline. Is the Minister intending to take any action that will allow us to lock up with a live predator-repellent fence of the entire Stockholm archipelago?
i-f631550c23a244ec-153	Madam President, I would like I understand why the Minister would rather talk about something else in the countryside. It's obvious. But today we are going to discuss the wolf and its importance and not its importance to the countryside. Otherwise we can talk about nature reserves, property rights, beach protection, petrol taxes and increased numbers of wolves in rural areas. This is a problem, and this government is not going to solve it. Madam President, I would like I can tell you about a farmer down in Ulricehamn. You wake up at night when wolves take animals just outside the house. It's animals screaming and fighting, a death struggle, killed by wolves outside the house. In that environment, people should struggle to raise their domestic animals and produce food. The children hear wolves howling behind the barn. At the same time, the family has a government in Stockholm that not only ignores the food strategy, in increasing food production, but instead benefits a larger wolf population in rural areas. You don't dare have your animals out, you get to lie awake at night, you're afraid of your children, dogs and other domestic animals. In these areas there is a lot of domestication. A lot of milk and meat is produced and the landscape is kept open by the animals grazing pastures and meadows. There are many pastures, and many smaller pastures because gaps in forest areas need to be grazed. Farmers have a requirement to keep their pastures open and ensure that they are managed. At the same time, the government allows the wolf tribe to increase and makes it completely impossible to meet those requirements. Animals get scared out of pastures. Expensive ewes throw their fetuses. Sheep find it hard to get pregnant again after a wolf attack. Dogs are killed. Closes are being demolished. And the maintenance of fences must be done daily. A farmer in Skaraborg has one to two miles of fence to walk around. I wonder if the county administrative board, which is still out and controls its wolves so often, could take on the task of also checking the fences that all farmers have to put up around Sweden. It is now being considered to stop animal production. Haws and pastures will grow again. Biodiversity is important in other contexts and in all the reserves that this government creates, but in these parts it is not very careful if it grows again. But in reserves, which can be taken from ordinary forest owners, it is a completely different matter. Biodiversity is lost, only because the S-government believes that wolf is more important than rural areas, animals and farmers' activities. The self-sufficiency of lambs is 30% in this country. So we import lots of food that we could produce in the country. At the same time, we have a food strategy that says we should increase animal production. But in this country, animal production does not increase, but we increase wolf production. It is quite unique in Europe. That's not how you work in any other place. Only this environmental-partisan government is on that mandate. Madam President, I would like Rural areas and animal production in areas with wolf are under threat. Biodiversity is under threat. Should animals be forced to stand in because of the wolf attacks, while at the same time being required to let their animals into pasture? Will pastures grow again? What's fair? How much should a farmer walk around his land every day to check over his fences so that the wolf doesn't come in? And who's responsible when the fence is nedrift and the animals are injured? Is it the animal owner, or is it the state that has actually increased the production of wolf more than the parliament has decided on? Minister! I look forward to the answers to those questions.
i-f631550c23a244ec-161	Madam President, I would like It is simply not possible in the short time left to take all the examples from Gävleborg, but I will take one. The newspaper says that the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg has rejected two applications for protection hunting on a wolf in Lingbo and the surrounding area, although the authority claims to understand and respect the concerns caused by the wolf for the village's inhabitants. The last was almost verbatim with what the Minister has just said, namely that he understands the concern. But what good is that, Madam President? What does it help the Minister to understand the concerns of the children's family in Lingbo, if he does not make the decisions and give the instructions to his authorities that are necessary to reduce predator pressure in Gävleborg. I think the Minister also understands that it is completely unreasonable to have 120 – 140 wolves in Gävleborg. It is completely unreasonable that a county in Sweden should have such a large proportion of the predators. This is what happens, Madam President, when you let the Green Party manage rural policy and predatory policy. Anyone who has received an electricity bill in the last month may wonder why it is so expensive. Anyone who is concerned about the climate can think about why Karlshamn's oil power plant produces electricity. Anyone who went for gas this morning and paid SEK 18 per litre for the diesel can of course give a thought to the Minister, the Green Party and the government. And anyone who suffers from predator pressure in Gävleborg or in other parts of Sweden can calmly conclude that we have a government that does not see all of Sweden. It's the government that has all the power. The government can control the matter. But it doesn't. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister what he will do to reduce predatory pressure in Sweden and Gävleborg.
i-f631550c23a244ec-166	Madam President, I would like The question is what consequences it will have when the government sends the signal that it will not do anything in the approaching environmental disaster. Instead, the government twists the crane and releases a little more – or quite a lot more. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister has really stopped and wondered why all these issues are constantly coming from Members of Parliament so that there are debates in this House. I'm pretty sure it's because a large number of people feel a huge insecurity having the wolf around the corner. It is now important for the government to stop all of this and establish the game agency on which the Riksdag has made an announcement. It is important from a number of points of view, not least from a security perspective, so that we can get things right once and for all. I think the Minister should go to Värmland and ask people if they believe that government policy puts people's security first. I can personally undertake to guide the Minister if there is any interest in this. Madam President, I would like The development shows that the government does not take into account either parliamentary decisions on a wildlife agency or the people who live and work in the presence of wolves around the house. Both wolf and other predators need to be adapted to the countryside and not the other way around. I find it extremely sad to see a policy that so blatantly ignores those who are forced to live with the effects of it. This is a policy for Södermalmsstockholm, not for Grums in Värmland.
i-f631550c23a244ec-172	Madam President, I would like Let me first thank you for inviting me to Värmland. I can assure Marléne Lund Kopparklint that I have been to Värmland a number of times, and I will certainly visit this beautiful and beautiful county in our country also in the future. Of course, I have discussed issues such as this when I have been there. I can assure Lars Beckman that this debate did not begin in 2014. In that case, Lars Beckman probably held both eyes and ears before that because we had a moderate government. Both in this House and throughout our country – I myself was a member of the parliament of Västerbotten at the time – the discussion was ongoing. Why? Because, of course, it touches something deep inside us, which is about predators and security, as we have talked about. And it's about different goals and values that sometimes stand against each other. These four moderate members of parliament, who are now in opposition, are trying to blow the eyes of people and say that it is simple, that it is digital and is about one or zero – or as Lars Beckman put it: the government has the whole power. I am now in my ninth year as a minister of various governments and can see that we live in a democracy after all. In addition, we are members of the European Union. This means that we live with regulations and laws that we have to relate to. I can also say to Members, in all humility, that sometimes there are different objectives against each other, and then one must find a balance which means that one can try to achieve the different objectives. Let me take an example that also appears in the questions I have been asked. The overall objective of our food strategy is to have a competitive food chain where total food production is increasing. At the same time, relevant national environmental objectives shall be met. I do not think Members really really think that we should ignore certain things and just drive on one thing. What makes our country so beautiful is that, with regard to different values, we are trying to find a way forward. That is also the case here. It is against this background that protection hunting and licence hunting take place. The question of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will come back. I've answered it. In addition to the decisions we take in the government and parliament, it is also about our obligations in the European Union, and the favourable conservation status that we are talking about must be based on a scientific basis. Madam President, I would like With regard to the damage that is still taking place, there are opportunities for the individual to benefit from preventive measures. Alexandra Anstrell asked about enclosures. It can be supported when there is a risk of predators and predators. In addition, this year we have raised the ceiling of the previous limit, which was 80%, to 100% of the cost of damage caused by predators. Madam President, I would like These are not simple questions. That's what I'm the first to sign. On the one hand, we have a very strong interest in biodiversity with all its implications. Furthermore, we are members of the European Union and we follow the same species and habitats directives as everyone else. On the other hand, there are a large number of other values raised by Members, namely security, increased food production and the husbandry of domestic animals that both work and can increase in our country. The conclusion I draw, Madam President, is that we must, of course, constantly try to work towards this. I'd be happy to do it with others. Although I understand that Lars Beckman in particular seems to think that the whole world is run by the Green Party, I would nevertheless welcome cooperation. The questions do not disappear if the accident is there and we have a moderate government in the country, which, of course, I sincerely hope will not happen.
i-f631550c23a244ec-182	Madam President, I would like The only thing that we in Sweden really are self-sufficient in is carrots, and, Minister, I really do not think we can manage only on carrots, even if it is good. When the wolf moves around farms bordering the waterline, as they like to do not least here in the Stockholm area, sheep owners are encouraged to fence the waterline or in any case put ropes with flags of a few meters out into the water to deter the wolf. Although there are only ropes with flags on in the water, it does not seem quite inviting to get ashore where the ropes are located. I also don't know how dissuasive it is for a wolf, because wolves are quite good swimmers. Are we supposed to fence all the water lines near or in every territory? In many cases, this is not very large-scale, as I said initially. Some may have only seven sheep. There'll be a lot of fences for a few sheep. If you receive only 50 crowns per meter, you can quickly calculate that it is not very profitable. What motivates the owner to keep his sheep? How does the government see that you should fence in or put ropes around the entire waterline along with beach protection rules and alleman rights? I asked if the Minister had planned to take measures to secure the archipelago residents of Stockholm County against swimming wolves who in turn could attack. But I'm not really getting the answer. Then I have to admit that I get a little curious about the how. How would it work with electric fences with four powered wires right by the water if there are waves? In fact, the government's fine words do not work, but action is needed. How does the Minister intend to support animal keepers in the Stockholm archipelago in order to increase self-sufficiency and provide us with more robust food supply?
i-f631550c23a244ec-189	Madam President, I would like Of course, we've got a license hunt on wolf 28. But how many think the minister has been born this year? This might be good to check out. You put in a license hunt that doesn't even correspond to the number that's born. We have another concern, and that is the search. Hunters dare not release their dogs to try to get hold of the traffic damage wild. They're afraid the wolf picks the dogs when they're forced to put the animals to catch them. Madam President, I would like We cannot fence all of Sweden. We simply have to decide to reduce the number of wolves instead. The farmers in Sweden actually have other things to do than walk around and check their fences day in and day out because the government has decided that we should tolerate this wolf density in this country. We are losing biodiversity. We also lose opportunities for people who want to invest in raising animals and producing food in areas where the wolf is. It is contrary to our parliamentary decisions. It is time that we started to take food strategy seriously and make sure to increase the production of food in this country and reduce the production of wolf. I guess that's the first thing you could do. Protection hunting is rarely allowed. It is so hard to shoot a wolf in these areas that it is often the wolf that survives and the tambodiness that is affected. Madam President, I would like The government has no support for its wolf policy. In 2022, Sweden will have a new government that will get hold of the wolf problems and make sure that we produce more food in Sweden and fewer wolves. The Swedish countryside cannot live on forest reserves and wolves. Sweden needs a new government!
i-f631550c23a244ec-195	Madam President, I would like It is said that hope is the last thing that abandons man. Keep hoping, Sten Bergheden! I'm not sure you're right. I'm pretty sure it could be a disappointment to you. But even if the accident were to occur and we have a moderate government, no one should believe anything but that we will continue to be members of the European Union and comply with the same directive on species and habitats. Of course, even such a government must balance objectives with each other. I don't think you should knock blue down on people's eyes. Basically, we're not as disagreeable as it might sound. Lars Beckman is very fond of attacking the Green Party, and he will have to do so. This is part of the democratic debate. I am not sure, however, that he will win that debate. When it comes to the basic issue, which is about how to ensure that the Swedish countryside develops in a safe and good way and how to increase Swedish food production, this government is making greater efforts than ever. They are so large that they are even welcomed by LRF, the National Federation of Farmers. Up to 2027, 28 1⁄2 billion are being invested to ensure that the positive development that we are now beginning to see in rural areas again after decades of decline can continue. It is about reindustrialisation and increased food production. It is about ensuring that our farmers have the opportunity to both diversify and make agriculture more sustainable. This is a work that is going on and which I hope the Moderates too can join after fighting environmentalists and wolves.
i-f631550c23a244ec-197	Madam President, I would like Ilona Szatmari Waldau has asked me whether, within the framework of my governance of Säpo, I intend to have any other measures concerning cooperation between Säpo and MIT, whether I intend to enable persons denied a residence permit linked to the opinions of Säpo to know what these allegations are and thus be able to respond to them and defend themselves, and whether I believe that it is reasonable to divide families with children and that this is compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, or whether I intend to take any measures to amend the legislation concerned or otherwise prevent this from happening. Every person applying for asylum or residence permit on another basis in Sweden shall be given legal certainty and individual redress. A person shall not be deported to a country where he or she is at risk of being subjected to the death penalty, torture, persecution or other degrading or inhumane treatment or punishment. At the same time, it is of great importance to prevent people who are or can become a security threat to Sweden from staying or establishing themselves in the country. A security matter at the Swedish Security Service is usually brought up to date by the authority being a referral to the Finnish Immigration Service. The Finnish Immigration Service makes a decision in accordance with the Aliens Act, taking into account the information provided in the case. The Swedish Security Service's operational work must be characterised by extensive confidentiality in order to deliver the desired results and ultimately to avert threats to Sweden's security. The transparency of such activities is therefore limited, not only in relation to the foreigners concerned, but also to Swedish citizens and other Swedish authorities. - the species shall, as a starting point, receive all material in its case. Any deviation from this is therefore strictly applied, so that information is not withheld other than when it is indispensable. In this context, it is also important to point out that the Security Service is not allowed to record information about a person solely because of his or her ethnic origin, political opinions, religion, health or sexual orientation. The Swedish Security and Privacy Protection Board conducts inspections to check how the Swedish Security Service processes personal data. As far as the issue of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, it applies as a Swedish law. It is an important principle that the best interests of the child should be taken into account in the legal context. This principle is incorporated into the Aliens Act, and the best interests of the child should of course be taken into account in security matters. However, the Convention on the Rights of the Child cannot in itself establish a right to a residence permit in Sweden. Finally, I will say something about the cooperation of the Security Service. The Swedish Security Service has extensive national and international cooperation. In international cooperation, cooperation is most frequent with security services in the Nordic countries, within the EU and in other Western countries. A large part of the cooperation is about the exchange of experience and information. In this context, it should also be stressed that EU Member States have decided on a common list of persons, groups and entities involved in terrorist acts. It is of great importance to prevent people who are or can become a security threat to Sweden from staying or establishing themselves in the country. I have full confidence in the Security Service's work on these matters.
i-f631550c23a244ec-205	Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are many of Kurdish origins. Some came here as adults, others as children. Still others are born here. Some of them have fallen in love with someone who lives in Sweden. Others have fallen in love with someone who lives in another country. Some of these choose to settle in the homeland of love, while others choose to settle in Sweden. Recently Zozan Büyük was expelled from Sweden. Zozan is a Belgian citizen and married to a Swede. They have two children together. They have lived in Sweden for several years where both she and her husband had jobs. When Zozan turned to the Finnish Immigration Service to obtain a permanent residence permit, she received an expulsion decision and a ban on returning to Sweden for ten years. Säpo believed that she was a danger to national security. Without explaining what Mr Säpo had based this on, Mr Zozan was expelled, who was unable to defend himself against the charges. The Belgian authority makes a different assessment and does not see her as a security threat. Last spring I met Rozerin who lives in Uppsala with his husband Kawa and their two children. Kawa had just been refused his residence permit application. It was not because Säpo sees him as a security threat but because his presence in Sweden can reinforce the threat that it considers Rozerin constitutes. For a few years, Rozerin was a member of the NCDK, the Kurdish Democratic Community Centre, and for some years she actively participated in demonstrations in support of HDP and the Syrian Kurds, such as the attacks on Kobane. She has not been active in the association since 2016. I must admit that I, too, have been at NCDK's manifestations for HDP and against the attacks on Kobane. In 2019, even several European politicians as PKK sympathisers were stamped in a 666-page report. Among the Swedish politicians are me and Jonas Sjöstedt but also Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. This shows that the Turkish State, through a think tank with strong links with the government, stamps people as terrorists and terrorist sympathizers for support to Kurds. It is an approach that now also seems to be adopted by Säpo. On the other hand, it is difficult to know because Mr Säpo's remarks about those seeking a residence permit are secret, so we can only guess. What those called to Säpo have in common is that they all sympathise with the Kurdish Left Opposition in Turkey and have expressed support for Kurdish self-government in north-eastern Syria, according to Today's ETC, which has spoken to several of them. Both the Left Party and the Government Party The Social Democrats have developed cooperation with the Kurdish Left Opposition. At the moment, about thirty known applications for residence permits are being examined. There is probably also a large number of darkness. That is why I have asked the Government three questions. One of them is whether, within the framework of his governance of Säpo, he intends to have any review or action taken regarding the cooperation between Säpo and the Turkish security services. The Government has chosen not to answer that question but to refer to the Swedish Security and Integration Protection Board. As far as my question about the Government is concerned, the Government intends to enable persons who are denied a residence permit linked to Säpo's statement to know what the charges are and to be able to respond to them and defend themselves, the Government says that the party should nevertheless as a starting point be given access to the material in its case. But no one's got it. My supplementary question to the Government will be: Will the Government ensure that they get access to the material in their case?
i-f631550c23a244ec-214	Madam President, I would like I would first like to point out that I will speak more in principle, because I do not wish to speak on individual matters. It's not my role to do that. Then I could be reported to the KU. If we take it on a slightly more principled bow, it is important to understand that we have legislation that makes the Security Service a referral body in a number of cases. In the end, however, it is not the Security Service that decides which information is to form the basis of the decision. It may be judges linked to the Aliens Act LSU who do so and the Migration Agency. It can ultimately be appealed to a court and, in some cases, to the government. This is the kind of legal process that is being carried out. It's not the Secret Service that decides. The Security Service gives an opinion on these security matters. I think it is a perfectly reasonable order of business. I turn to the interpellant's point that we have very many Kurds in Sweden. That's absolutely right. There are many Kurds who have fled to Sweden, found a sanctuary in Sweden and who live their lives here. But they are also politically committed to the Kurdish issue. I would like to join my own party in one of the forces that has worked very hard and intensively on these issues and the right to decide over their own future. Sweden as a nation has also had a very intensive cooperation both with the autonomy of northeastern Syria, which was mentioned here by the interpellant, and with, for example, SDF. It has been the partner force on the ground for the global coalition against IS and Daish, where Sweden is part of the coalition. There is a well-established and deep cooperation. However, it does not deny that we also need to review matters relating to Sweden's safety if there are people who may pose a threat to our country's security and that there must be a test of this. That is why we have legislation. The answer to the question of what may become public is that the Security Service makes an assessment of what can be done publicly in these cases. However, since it may also affect operational capabilities – perhaps the channels of information, how information has been collected in these cases – it is not possible for the Security Service to provide all information in these cases. That is why we have built a special order in which, for example, the activities of the Swedish Security Service are examined by various authorities and where there is a Transparency Council consisting of parliamentary parties. That's the order we have. It is not such an unusual order in democracies that one still has a security service to defend the country against terrorist threats but also against other types of security threats against a country. It is not the case that the work of the Security Service assumes that any person has made an opinion or has had a political opinion. It's not crucial when the Security Service makes its judgment. An individual review is carried out, and a balanced assessment is made of whether a person can pose a threat to Sweden and thus give an opinion recommending expulsion, for example.
i-f631550c23a244ec-222	Madam President, I would like There's something strange. I would like to refer once again to the ETC of today. They have spoken to some of the people who have been to Säpo. One person says: They asked me what my views are on the PKK. Do I see it as a terrorist organization? Have I had a relationship with the PKK? Do I think that PKK and HDP have a connection, and have I participated in any Kurdish activities in Sweden? I was shocked by those questions, because they reminded me so much of the issues of the Turkish secret police. What we can see, according to the people who have been to Säpo when they tell them what they have got for questions, is that these are questions that are entirely linked to the situation in Turkey and the relationship between HDP and PKK and really nothing about Sweden. Now, here too, we do not know what has actually been said because everything is classified. They must also not see for themselves what the basis is. Rozerin and Kawa, as I mentioned earlier, are two real people, but they do not have the names that I am now saying. Furthermore, as far as they are concerned, Mr Säpo has had no objection to Mr Kawa, who is the person seeking a residence permit. It is believed that Rozerin, through the commitment she has had in the NCDK, would make her a security threat if Kawa were granted a residence permit. If he lives with his wife and two children here in Sweden, she can become a security threat to Sweden. It is in itself a very strange foundation, I would say. In this case, it is also the case that Kawa, a Turkish citizen, is not allowed to re-enter Schengen for ten years. This means that the only way that Rozerin, Kawa and their children can meet the whole family is in Turkey or in a country outside Schengen. I do not think it is particularly child-friendly or in the best interests of the children. The Finnish Immigration Service says Rozerin can travel to Turkey. They can live there. But if Säpo makes the assessment that she has participated in the NCDK's arrangement and thus is what she now is – that she supports a terrorist organisation, as the PKK is considered – she risks a prison sentence if she comes to Turkey. In addition, we know that people from Kurdistan or from Turkey who have grown up in Sweden usually do not speak Turkish. They have Kurdish as their native language, and they are taught Kurdish as their mother tongue at school. As a result, they come to a country where they risk being imprisoned and therefore do not speak the language. I think it is extremely serious to make this kind of assessment. However, I agree with the Government that we should not discuss individuals, but rather a system. When over 30 people from Kurdistan get this kind of question about dealing with HDP and PKK, it becomes a pattern that shows that there is something very strange in this. It is also very strange that the whole thing is classified and that they must not defend themselves. They do not even know why they do not get a residence permit but only that they or their partners are seen as a security threat linked to the issue of the PKK.
i-f631550c23a244ec-229	Madam President, I would like The security services often ask questions in these cases. The precise questions they ask and the reason why they ask the questions cannot and do not wish to comment. But it is not surprising that the Security Service is asking questions about a terrorist-class organisation such as the PKK, about what association they have had with it and about how they view this organisation. It is a European decision, which Sweden has also signed up to, which has meant that the PKK is on the terror list. Among other things, therefore – but not only for this reason – the Security Service has to look at the links people have had to a terrorist-class organisation. But when I talk to the Security Service, I hear very clearly that a person's opinions, statements and so on cannot alone determine where the Security Service lands in an assessment of whether there is a security risk. Again, I would like to say that when it comes to the whole discussion on residence permits in Sweden and whether this is wise or not, it is still the Swedish Security Service that provides a basis, but it is the Migration Agency and then the courts that examine the decisions in the cases. There is every possibility for these authorities to make decisions if they think that the Swedish Security Service has made a strange assessment or if they think that it should be done in some other way according to Swedish legislation. The decisions themselves are not made by the Swedish Security Service. They provide the basis. I find it difficult to see what other order we should have in security matters, because this is a more fundamental discussion. Should we not have a security service that looks at what contacts people who want to have a permanent residence permit in Sweden or be in our country have? Should we not look at what contacts they have had with terrorist organisations and what security risks they may pose to our country? This is the ultimate network, where we try to capture people who could be a risk to our country's security. I come back to the fact that it can't be said that everything should be public. If everything goes public, you can also reveal methods, pick-up techniques and perhaps technical capabilities. It is not good if the methods used by the Security Service to monitor people who may pose a security risk or are terrorists in our country are revealed. Hence, there is a certain degree of secrecy in these matters, and that must be the case. The starting point for this is perhaps a slightly broader discussion. It is suggested in the interpellation that we should have a close relationship with and trust very much in exactly what the Turkish authorities think and think. I want to make it clear that Sweden has extensive judicial cooperation in criminal matters with Turkey, which works well in many different ways. At the same time, however, the government has almost once a month in recent years rejected the request for extradition or legal assistance in criminal matters from Turkey for acquiescence to be contrary to Swedish general principles of law. In these cases, Swedish fundamental values surrounding the freedom of opinion and expression drum have Turkey's need for assistance. The individual's rights are something that should always be taken into account in these matters and something we obviously do not depart from, regardless of who requests help in these contexts. I would like to emphasise that we have Swedish legislation and a Swedish legal review that must be done here, and it must not rely on the legal systems or assessments of foreign operators or states.
i-f631550c23a244ec-237	Madam President, I would like In fact, Amnesty International has also spoken on these very matters, also in contact with the newspaper ETC. Amnesty says – and this is an attitude that I agree with – that it is important that Sweden has a job against people and organisations that may pose a risk to the security of the country. That is, of course, extremely important. Amnesty also says, however, that a system must be found in which a person who is completely concerned is allowed to share what is directed at you. Amnesty believes that there is no other way to go if both the principle of proportionality and the principle of global legal certainty are to be upheld. This means that according to Amnesty's review, Sweden is in breach of this when these people are not allowed to take part in the investigation or know what data the Migration Agency has received from Säpo. My interpellation is a lot about this. How are these people – over 30 people we know of and the great number of darkness that consists of those who dare not say anything because they are afraid of reprisals if they are expelled to Turkey – to be able to see what they are accused of? They must be able to see this and be able to defend themselves against the accusations against it. They must be able to respond to this, for example in a legal process or in an appeal process. But they can't. Neither I nor the Government can know exactly what these people have done or said in different contexts. We can't even know what they're supposed to have said or done, because it's a secret. I would like the Government to conclude its speeches here by saying that we need to review this. As the Government has said, people must be given the opportunity to know what they are accused of. And they won't today.
i-f631550c23a244ec-243	Madam President, I would like I am not prepared to make a promise to change the regulations in such a way that the people that the Swedish Security Service believes pose a security risk for Sweden get all the information. Why? Because that information can also reveal the way the Security Service works operationally and the technical capabilities of the Security Service. This would undermine the ability of the Swedish Security Service to be the ultimate guarantor of Sweden's security linked to terrorism or security threats. However, it is still the case that if the Migration Agency were to perceive that the evidence available is not clear enough, it is they who make the decisions. This decision is, of course, subject to appeal. But there is also no unconditional right for foreign citizens to come to Sweden and settle here. We must have an opportunity to also use the Security Service's information to determine whether there is a security risk or a terrorist threat to Sweden. The Swedish Parliament has taken a position on several occasions that the Swedish Security Service should have this opportunity. It has also been decided on legislation based on the fact that the Security Service is a consultation body on these matters. I have no plans to change that order. However, I am fully aware that these are difficult issues. But I also think that the Security Service has a very difficult mission, and I have great confidence in the Authority and that they are doing this mission in the best possible way.
i-f631550c23a244ec-248	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government and I intend to take so that Sweden will not be the country the criminal gangs choose because, as IF states, the risk of getting caught is low and the consequences are mild. Fighting back against theft gangs and fighting all forms of crime has been a high priority for the government, and we have worked purposefully to ensure that law enforcement authorities have the resources and effective tools to do just that. Expanding the Police Authority is a central part of the work, and we are making a historic effort at the agency. By mid 2021, the number of police employees had increased by 7,000 compared to January 2016. Over the next few years, several thousand new police officers are expected to be employed around the country. This increases law enforcement capacity. The criminal law protection against offences of arrest and heel has been reinforced by legislative amendments that entered into force on 1 March 2021. The legislative amendments were implemented, among other things, in order to make it less attractive for international crime networks to operate in Sweden. Through the amendments to the law, systematic elements of theft and heel crime will have a greater impact in assessing whether the crime is serious. In addition, attempts, preparation and conspiracy of heeling have been criminalized. A new penalty has also been introduced, known as burglary, with a minimum sentence of one year, which is higher than that applicable to grand theft. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have had a joint government mission to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in Sweden. This has led, among other things, to the development of cooperation between authorities and to the Police Authority taking steps to improve its operational work in this area. After the commission has been reported, the government has stated in the government's regulatory letters that they will report how the collaboration established regarding actions against foreign theft leagues has continued to develop. In order to enable more effective law enforcement, new rules also entered into force on 1 August 2021, which provide the Customs Agency with increased powers to intervene against offences that are outside the Agency's regular area of activity and are detected in connection with customs control. This provides more opportunity for customs to act on, for example, the export of suspected stolen goods. In addition, the Government has established an investigation into more effective police measures in border areas, which will consider whether legislative changes should be made to increase the police's ability to fight crime close to the borders. The proposal of the investigation shall primarily concern the Police Authority, but to the extent justified, the proposals may also apply to other authorities, such as the Customs Agency and the Coast Guard. The report must be presented no later than 19 November this year. In order to tackle international crime networks, cross-border cooperation is crucial, and such cooperation is active, not least within the framework of Europol. The government's view is clear: the fight against theft leagues must continue, and it must also be a priority in the EU's law enforcement work. There is therefore active work on the part of both the government and the authorities, at home and internationally, to strengthen the fight against international organised crime.
i-f631550c23a244ec-257	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Here we are again. I do not know what time in the order we are discussing criminal networks, but there have been some debates. I wrote this interpellation in August. Then there would have been an article in the OT that 40 cars had been stolen in a short time. The criminal networks have rather refined methods when they steal cars – and not just cars, but tractors, quadricycles, lawn mowers, etc. In principle, everything that is not cast or welded goes into their transport. According to the police, traders abroad place orders for which vehicles they want, and the criminal networks deliver them. When I ended up here in Parliament, I came closest from the haulage industry. There is a concern, because there the cars function as rolling spare parts. When the drivers come out in the morning and are going to carry out their transports, you can have undressed the cab large panels and doors and picked on wheels, tires, brake cocks and virtually everything that can be screwed up. Then that working day is stranded for that haulage company and for several days to come, because it takes a while to rebuild the vehicle back to traffic-worthy condition. I used to discuss this problem with my former chief of the traffic police over and over again. He said to me: After eight o'clock in the evening, the road is basically open over the Öresund Bridge, and then these transports roll. The illegal professional traffic in Sweden is used to obtain the stolen goods. It is such volumes and sizes of goods that you steal that you have to use trucks. I sometimes say a little joke that the traffic police go home after Bolibompa, because then they go to bed and sleep. There are no traffic police after 22 - 23 at night. Some occasional tour team does a night pass from time to time, but it's not very often. They go home in the evening, so it is free for these transports. You have hidden thieves up in the forest where you collect the stolen goods, then the tow truck comes and picks up the goods and then it rolls out of Sweden at night. As a rule, it is stolen goods that are used in Sweden with their customer the following day. It's so refined, and so well organized are the criminal networks. The meshes in their network also become more dense and denser. The government is passive in this, I would say, and I have said that more than once. We have discussed this. There are investments in the police – yes, and that's great – but the investments are not enough. We can say that. After all, we also have another concern in our society, namely the constant shootings, the stabbings and all that is now. And then there are the criminal networks operating in the country. These also change shape. They can have a look on Monday and look completely different on Friday. Groupings are changing. They also have different places they start from. One moment they are in Sweden, the next they are in Germany or France. This is how it goes. Society must be equipped to tackle this type of crime. Then the government's efforts are far too slow. There is far too little being done. I would like answers to what the Government's thoughts are.
i-f631550c23a244ec-268	Madam President, I would like Yes, this is not the first time that Thomas Morell and I have discussed this type of issue. However, we have done a great deal in this area. We have given customs increased resources and powers. We're giving the police more resources and powers. We've tightened the penalties for exactly these types of systematic crime that I listed. In addition to the fact that the authorities have been led by the government to prioritise cooperation on crime that is internationally linked and that Sweden has also been a leader in European cooperation linked to these issues, we also have investigations under way, not least the one on police powers in border zone that I mentioned in my answer. I therefore believe that a great deal is being done in this area. When it comes to cars and car parts, one can take a historical perspective, just to give a small background. Compared to 2011, the notified car arrests have decreased by about 50 per cent. Thefts from and from motor vehicles have decreased by 26 percent. The vulnerability to car theft has also decreased during this period. In a 20-year perspective, i.e. even longer, the reductions are even more marked. In 2001, some 60,000 car thefts were reported in our country. By 2020 that figure had fallen to 10,000, a decrease of 83%. Thefts from and out of vehicles have fallen from 140 000 in 2001 to 50 000 in 2020. At the same time, it can be noted that the number of passenger cars operating in Sweden has increased by around 900 000 during this period. What is the reason for this? Is that the police's successful work? No, not in the first place, I'd say. These are new requirements for car manufacturers, not least the requirement for newly manufactured cars to be equipped with electronic anti-theft protection. Stealing cars has become more difficult, which has led to this trend. You have to look at it in a holistic way. We have seen an increase in theft from and from motor vehicles in 2020 and early 2021 because international theft leagues move between different categories. One category that seems to be very fashionable right now is catalyst theft. This is probably due to the fact that the metals in the catalysts are more valuable today than before, and then there is more money to be collected in this. However, according to the police, these thefts are not just committed by international theft networks. There are also some of our more traditional professions at home who live a life perhaps not entirely in the name of the law and who also use this to overwhelm the money. This is a major problem, and I would argue that we are making it easier to expel people, that we are making it easier to stop people at the border and that this is a job that must be done with great force. But I am not going to sign that the government has done nothing, because this is an area in which we have been very active and will continue to be active. Above all, it matters very much that we get more police officers present all over Sweden who also have the time and capacity to both guard and intervene against international theft leagues operating in Sweden. That is why I look forward to thousands of new police officers taking office in the next few years around Sweden, because that will make it even more difficult for international theft leagues to act. I would also like to thank all the voluntary organisations, insurance companies and industry organisations that work very systematically to make it more difficult for these international theft leagues. It also has an effect.
i-f631550c23a244ec-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's interesting this with numbers and that you can turn them around. It's kind of like an empty bowl where you roll them out of a jar. The number of catalyst thefts has increased by 4,400%, I think it was the last time I read about it. The number of thefts has also increased by car parts, cars, tractors, quadricycles, boat engines, and more. It's the latest information that's come from IF. The CEO of Alarmtjänst has said that it is sad that the government does not take the problems of international theft leagues seriously. Ligorna's ravages cause great costs for both companies and private individuals, and that is what we are talking about. What is even worse, however, is that systematic theft contributes to the insecurity of society in a very tangible way. We would very much welcome the fact that the government is taking strong and effective measures to tackle the problem. So the CEO of Alarm Service has said that. As I have said before, I have a lot of contact with my old police colleagues. Some have quit, and one of my fellow students quit a while ago. He said it doesn't work anymore. You don't get the resources you need. But need to have new staff out on the road, because it's on the way we have to work to get cheered on these leagues. The last task I received from a colleague was that they want to employ in the unit where they are but that there is no money in the budget. It will not help to train new staff if they are stopped precisely for budgetary reasons. Then the government has to loosen the stock market a little bit and make sure that the police have more resources so that there is money to spend on new orders so that we can get to the leagues out there. We have discussed several times before that theft of car parts is not isolated events, that shootings are not isolated events and that illegal professional traffic is not isolated from other things but that they go in each other, and the criminal networks operate in that way. An old police officer in Västra Götaland who was part of the transport security group that I chaired said that the bus has changed shape. He is no longer the bad guy in Björnligan with an eye mask, as one imagines he looks, but the criminals today wear tie and suit and operate in a completely different way. They have other ways of getting to what they're after. Illegal professional traffic along the way creates financial resources for other crime in society. An important part of this is precisely stealing cars or car parts and then turning them into money to invest in other criminal activities. So you can't tear down a little bit there and tear down a little bit here and think you can get a result, because it doesn't work, but you have to have a strategy for how to get to this. There's no police control there. I've worked there myself, so I know a little bit about the isolation between the different management layers upwards. I usually say there's about a half-metre isolation between each executive level. It is believed from the management that controls on the way are kicking on the deck and checking the lights, but there is so much more out there being done to get to other criminal activities. Now the government has to open the money bag and ensure that the police are able to recruit those who are fully trained.
i-f631550c23a244ec-288	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we need more of both law and order and order on Sweden's roads. It has been a liberalised, flagged area where very many transport companies have de facto left Sweden because competition has not been fair and because people have been exploited. There has been a naive view of how the transport sector should develop, and that is why this government has both tightened up the requirements for what should apply on Swedish roads in several different stages and pushed for tougher EU legislation in this area so that people should not be exploited. In this, too, are the shipments of stolen goods or other items raised by Mr Morell, which are linked to criminal activities and which are either smuggled into or out of our country. That is also why we are both strengthening customs and giving it new powers and also looking at what powers the police should have in the border zone, which is the area through which these transports roll. I mean, we've taken a lot of moves. In addition, international cooperation has led to several major seizures. This has happened when you have worked with other countries, because the fact is that there is hardly a truck that has not rolled through Denmark on the way to or from Sweden or via the ferries to Germany. So there are several countries with which we should work together to stop this illegal activity. It'll be more effective. With regard to the concrete issue of money for the police, it is indeed the case that we are expanding the police quite exceptionally much. We're getting 10,000 more police employees and we're ahead of the plan. This was one of the reasons why the police during this year, due to their growing pain, have had an estimated deficit of about half a billion dollars for this year. More jobs have been made this year than you may have money for, and then the government has chosen to be clear before the budget work that we will remove the SEK 500 million in deficit so that you do not have to lift them to next year and do not have to slow down the growth rate. So we compensated for the SEK 500 million for this year. What is ahead of next year is a level increase of approximately SEK 2 billion for the Police Authority to continue to grow in the first place. There is also a technology package that is also not insignificant with cameras, sensors and such things, not least secret coercive measures, that the Police Authority wants to have increased opportunities to work with. But the big part of this is that there should not be any hack into the curve but that we should continue to grow and hire more police. The police authorities have also made it clear that they want more employees working with traffic control. I am fully on the wagon when it comes to the fact that we have had too few checks. We need to have stronger control activities, and we have also noted in previous interpellation debates that controls on the move are increasing now, but that there is still a lot to be done, and that also requires new positions.
i-f631550c23a244ec-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. This is a bit interesting, because after all this money has not fallen out so that it will be an effect for those who work out on the road. They do not get this addition of new staff as they wish. In Dagens Industri on 1 September 2021, you could read that the investment in more police officers has resulted in 15 more police officers in Stockholm. The government doesn't seem to agree, but that's what it says in today's industry, and I can't do much about that-- if it's wrong, I'll have to refer to the paper. So you've got 15 more police officers since the end of 2015... that's it. Does anyone think they will end up in a system where they are trained for control on the road? I don't think so. The IF investigation states that the National Operations Department of the Police, Noa, estimates that 90 percent of car and car theft is carried out by international organised crime. You're here, you're in surgery. Three years ago, Larmtjänst said that Sweden is a smorgasbord for these international leagues. It has been quite a long time since we have had knowledge of these problems, but no resources have been put in place to get to them. The road is the working tool of criminals. We must not forget that. I have been going on about it, and I will be going on about it until we see a change: we have to get officials on the road who are putting a stop to the organised criminal networks operating here so that we can get to grips with the exodus of stolen goods and the introduction of contraband. There must be a change now, whether it is weapons, ammunition or young girls who are to be exploited for prostitution that is carried across the border.
i-f631550c23a244ec-301	Madam President, I would like Yeah, we've had too few cops on the road. We've had too few cops in vulnerable areas. We have had too few police officers in the countryside in Sweden. That's why we're expanding the police department. Last half-year we had 7,000 more police employees compared to when growth started. It is now the great growth of police officers is taking place throughout the country. Stockholm has grown in recent years with 285 police officers, net. It's a little too little. We must have many more police officers to Stockholm as well. But it is quite true that the number of police workers decreased in several places over a number of years. It was because police training had been reduced by 90 percent. There were no cops to hire, so there were fewer cops. Now we have more police officers for a number of years, and we are expanding very strongly. We've never had as many cops as we have right now. We've never had as many civilian employees as we have right now. However, the police must be considerably larger in order to do all their important tasks. A report three years ago talked about sandwich tables, yes. However, I can see that we have since done a great deal, not least on the penalty side. We have introduced new penalties aimed at this particular type of systematic theft. In addition, we have achieved much more of the joint work of the authorities against these gangs. We are beginning to develop stronger international cooperation. We are getting better at stopping them from entering Sweden, and we are getting better at deporting them if they have committed crimes in Sweden. In addition, we will ensure that we continue to monitor the roads in a better way than we have done in recent years. We need more inspectors in our ways of order but also in order to fight crime. I am sure that Thomas Morell and I will discuss this again, but we fully agree on the problem picture. We've had too few cops. We don't have enough cops. We're gonna need more cops in the future.
i-f631550c23a244ec-306	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I see the introduction of national guidelines on fire protection, how I intend to work to clarify the division of responsibilities regarding fire protection in the municipalities and what measures I intend to take so that fire protection does not differ in the municipalities. Every year between 80 and 90 people are killed and about 200 are seriously injured as a result of house fires. Good fire protection in homes is of great importance in order to reduce the number of people killed or injured by fires. The Law on Protection against Accidents, LSO, has recently been strengthened, including with regard to the national objective of fire and accident prevention. The objective is to plan and organise preventive activities for which the state and the municipality are responsible so that they effectively contribute to the prevention of fires and other accidents and prevent or limit damage caused by fires and other accidents. Particular attention shall be paid to preventing people's deaths and other serious injuries. According to LSO, municipalities must have action programmes both for preventive activities and for civil protection. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, must supervise that municipalities comply with LSO and regulations issued in connection with the Act. The aim is to ensure equal protection against fires and other accidents in all municipalities. If a municipality fails to fulfil its obligations, MSB may order the municipality to remedy the deficiency. Over the last ten years, the state of knowledge about residential fires has improved, and we know more about the causes of these fires than before. For example, our knowledge has improved regarding the homes in which there is fire, who is affected, and which interventions and technical systems can be useful. It is important knowledge to be used in preventive work. Although society's capacity to prevent fires in general has developed positively, there are areas in need of further development. The vision for the Swedish national strategy for a strengthened fire protection that MSB, Boverket, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and others have developed is that no one should perish or be seriously injured as a result of fire. Earlier this year, MSB published a report describing the direction of the national strategy and presenting a number of areas for action. One area of action is to strengthen the fire protection of particularly at risk individuals in their home environment. MSB points out that systematic work with enhanced fire protection for these individuals can reduce the number of people killed in residential fire and create better conditions for safe care in a home environment. In order for it to be realised, municipalities and regions need to work more systematically to adapt fire protection for this group. In-depth cooperation between actors at municipal level, such as municipal civil protection, social services and, where appropriate, municipal health care, is also important. An example of a concrete measure is to identify persons in need of enhanced fire protection due to increased risk behaviour or limited ability to react and act in connection with a fire. It is clear that g od knowledge of local conditions is of great importance, as both measures and measures need to be adapted to local conditions and the risk picture that exists in the municipalities. MSB and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have jointly developed the Fireproof Housing for All: Strengthened fire protection for particularly at risk individuals as a support to municipalities. The guidance was revised at the end of last year. Several important measures have been taken in recent years to support the work of the responsible actors in ensuring equal and effective fire protection.
i-f631550c23a244ec-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. It is true that the knowledge of causes and measures has increased in recent years. The guidance provided by MSB and the National Board of Health and Welfare is a good support at work. This means that we have a good starting point for doing something. But it is not enough in itself, but someone needs to do the same. That is exactly what we need to discuss on this issue. Cooperation is good, but as long as the social services do not see it as their responsibility to implement concrete measures in the user's housing, there will be no effect. LSO is a requirement law, but what does information and injunctions against, for example, an elderly bed-smoker with a guarantee pension help? Does the government think that the local emergency services should supervise these people and instruct them to invest in fire protection measures that they cannot afford under threat of a penalty payment? It doesn't make sense. Madam President, I would like In the case of residential fire, it is particularly important to review fire protection for the elderly and the most sick because it is a more vulnerable group, especially as many of them have limited mobility. It does not burn more often in the elderly, but they are hardest hit. Many are unable to extinguish or evacuate on their own due to physical or mental impairment. Other risk factors include dementia, alcohol, smoking and, not least, functional variations. It may also be medication where fatigue is one of the side effects. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, the minister has listed how many people are affected by fatal fires and other injuries. Every year around 90 people are killed, which the Minister is on. It is usually physical or mental illnesses or functional variations that cause what could have stopped in an incident to develop into a serious situation with associated deaths. Madam President, I would like According to Section 4 of the Social Services Act, older people have the right to live in safe conditions. At the same time, we have a group of elderly people who live in ordinary housing but who are unable to find themselves safe even if they discover that there is a fire. In fact, there are stories from home help personnel who testify that older ones have told them to remove their batteries because they themselves know that they cannot get to the rescue. The Accident Protection Act clearly points out that the individual is responsible for his/her fire safety. As a moderate, Madam President, I think that individual responsibility is good. That's a good principle. However, it is based on the fact that the individual can actually do something about his situation, and here I think there are too many shortcomings with regard to this group. Society needs to enter, and it should be the same wherever you live in the country. We need to discuss that there are differences depending on where you live. A person who can evacuate on his own can get a reasonable fire protection by installing a smoke detector and possibly a stove guard, but for people who cannot evacuate on their own does not help this. They usually need a portable system that can cost almost an annual income for someone with a guarantee pension. Finally, I would like to say that own responsibility is good, but it only works if the individual has a reasonable chance of taking that responsibility. As for those who do not, we as a society need to go in and do it for them.
i-f631550c23a244ec-325	Madam President, I would like I think this is an important interpellation we are discussing. The whole issue of fire may get a little too little attention – many people die or are seriously injured in fires every year. I also think it is good that we hear Moderates talking about joint responsibility. In this context, there is no one other than the municipality who has the ability to see where and in what activities these vulnerable people are and what preventive activities should actually look like. We just tightened the law. The law does not aim to impose fines on individuals. I do not know why this is even said in this House. The whole point is that MSB should supervise that the municipalities comply with LSO. The municipalities must have an action programme for both civil protection and prevention. It is this responsibility that we are now tightening up with the legislation that has passed through Parliament, and I think that is a good thing. Then you get a local knowledge. It is necessary to work with preventive activities and with a civil protection action programme, in which case you can identify risk groups and environments and discuss how to avoid fire and how to save lives. I think that is a reasonable order to have. With the various guidelines that MSB has now developed together with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and which were last updated at the end of last year, I believe, there are now very good bases for municipalities to be able to conduct both a good civil protection operation and a systematic preventive activity. I think that's good. I believe that this is something that is needed, and that is why we have tightened up the law and given MSB the power to supervise and ultimately also be able to impose on a municipality that does not fulfil its obligations to remedy the deficiencies. I think that's very important.
i-f631550c23a244ec-330	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government may have too little focus on fire. That is exactly what we are discussing here. We must prevent fires, but above all we must prevent fatal fires and serious injuries to the elderly and people with disabilities. How can we get there? That is the big question. There is a myth about the exposure of older people to fires. It is said to be because some of them are dementia and forget that they have cooked, but this is very unusual. On the contrary, elderly people cause very few fires, and their exposure to fatal fires depends more on their physical capacity. Particularly important is the problem for older people who are also smokers. Research has shown that people over 85 years of age who smoke are 45 times more likely to die in fires than the general population. It is rarely the first dropped cigarette that causes it to burn. Instead, it is very common that floors and textiles have received hundreds of brand marks before the day when the cigarette leads to a fire from which the victim cannot escape. With few exceptions, these people are visited several times a day by the home service. We think that lex Sarah should include an obligation to report the type of maladministration that involves an unreasonable risk of being killed in a fire, and the municipality should be obliged to draw up a plan for how to deal with the risk – either by asking the individual to take certain measures or, where this is not reasonable, by the municipality taking measures under housing adaptation legislation, as I mentioned earlier. Individualised fire protection, a work model that exists in, for example, my municipality of Karlstad and that I myself was involved in working towards, is an example of a measure that prevents fire and accidents, where the municipality's aid assessor for each individual who has efforts under the LSS or the Social Services Act assesses risk factors and puts in measures if necessary. This can be about stove guards or mobile automatic sprinkler systems. Such a work model, together with fixed and mobile automatic extinguishing systems, has been highlighted for several years as an effective system to prevent the death or serious injury of people by fire. I would like the government to set up an investigation into how fire protection for the elderly can be strengthened, as was done in Norway a few years ago. The question can then be highlighted from any perspective, and it can be determined how the legislation can be adapted in the best possible way. It is not reasonable that there are older and vulnerable people in our society for whom it is only a matter of time before they die in a fire. Research has shown that these people are often awake when there is a fire and that they are often killed by the burns themselves, which is a terrible way to die. The government also needs to investigate how we as a society can do our utmost to avoid this happening. There are a few commendable initiatives in different municipalities, but since there is no identified responsibility, the initiatives are usually short-lived and dependent. There is a need to make demands at national level on municipalities to point out who is responsible for this so that we can do something about this unsustainable situation.
i-f631550c23a244ec-338	Madam President, I would like It is good that the interpellation debate has moved on to the discussion on how. I think that is important, because we seem to share the problem picture entirely: that fires both kill and harm people far too much in our country. I do not think that the way forward is now an investigation into what works in this – we know that. We have a great deal better knowledge today about what prevents fires, what is effective in doing so, how we encapsulate risk environments and which groups are most vulnerable. Taking a detour through an investigation when we already know this doesn't seem right to me. What is happening now is that new legislation should be implemented and applied. The new accident protection law includes a target that was not before, a national target for fire and accident prevention. According to LSO, municipalities must have action programmes both for preventive activities and for civil protection. The national requirements for action programmes are therefore already in place. In addition, we have moved the responsibility for supervision. Now it is the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency that supervises compliance with LSO and the regulations given. Local authorities will then have to adapt their activities to local conditions. If there are at risk groups and activities that come into contact with people who may have problems in the way described, this should be included in the civil protection and preventive action programmes. Whoever is ultimately responsible is the municipality, regardless of the activity in the municipality. I think this is a pretty good way of running the business, rather than pointing out an actor within the municipality because several actors in the municipality may in fact be responsible for this issue. If this does not work, I have no problem tightening up the legislation further, if necessary. But right now, from 1 January, we have tightened up the legislation and introduced a new objective, and then it is that legislation and that objective that must apply to municipal civil protection all over Sweden.
i-f631550c23a244ec-343	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Minister is no stranger to tightening up the law if it does not work. This is the municipality's ultimate responsibility, says the Minister. Then it is actually up to evidence too – that it works well and you prevent fires and not only talk about stove guards and smoke detectors, because it does not save lives for those who have a functional variation. The Minister says that it is clear that good knowledge of local conditions is of great importance as both interventions and measures need to be adapted to local conditions and the risk picture that exists. Madam President, I would like What is that conclusion based on? Research has been carried out on the problem from different perspectives. There is no indication that local conditions would be a decisive factor. The problems and measures are exactly the same throughout the country, but the interventions for the elderly and for people with disabilities are different. If the law has been tightened up and changed, it should not be such differences depending on where in the country you live. There are, of course, good examples of municipalities that have a good job, where several different interventions have been made via home aid assessors, who actually save lives, and that should be done in that way throughout the country. The municipalities should be required to do so. Although municipalities have the ultimate responsibility, it is not said that they deliver precisely these efforts, as we know, work. That is what I am talking about. That's where we save lives.
i-f631550c23a244ec-348	Madam President, I would like It is important that the new law has an impact, that the municipalities comply with it and that they take this issue seriously. What I mean in my answer, with knowledge of local conditions, is precisely where the particularly at risk individuals are and which activities are most vulnerable to fire. We know today of studies and statistics where fires occur. This knowledge must be used locally when working with the operations, with civil protection and in the preventive work. The municipalities have the key role here. MSB now has a supervisory responsibility and also a responsibility to assist and coordinate the preventive work of municipalities and to disseminate the good examples and knowledge available. It's been such a long time now that knowledge exists. It's not that advanced to know what needs to be done. I have high hopes that the enforcement that is now being carried out, with a new national target, will also have an impact on local authorities' activities in terms of both civil protection and prevention. If we do this together in Sweden, I am absolutely convinced that we can reduce the number of fires that lead to serious damage and ultimately death.
i-f631550c23a244ec-353	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change and the Deputy Prime Minister whether he intends to develop national guidelines for the safe disposal of contaminated water in all municipalities, what reasons lie behind the absence of national guidelines for the disposal of contaminated water today, and whether the Government intends to compensate Sweden's municipalities for the risk of contaminated water increasing due to the threat of more electric car fires. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Municipal civil protection has a responsibility as an operator in connection with rescue operations, which includes taking environmental risks into account, both according to the Environmental Code and the Accident Protection Act. In connection with an operation, such as a fire, civil protection always carries out a risk assessment based on the current situation, including to assess the risks associated with the origin of the fire and the most appropriate type of operation. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB) has worked actively for several years on issues related to contaminated extinguishing water. MSB, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has developed a guide that will be published later this year in which the knowledge collection of recent years is reported. The guidance is intended as general support for fires with contaminated extinguishing water and will highlight the importance of stakeholders working together to reduce toxic emissions and damage to the environment. MSB and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believe that the general principles of the environmental code should be taken into account in all types of firefighting. This means, among other things, requirements for knowledge and caution and that it is the responsibility of the rescue leader to ensure that there is sufficient knowledge of different extinguishing methods. The greatest possible caution shall be exercised in selecting extinguishing agents and means of extinguishing to prevent the occurrence of pollution damage. MSB recommends emergency services to prevent the spread of contaminated extinguishing water as far as possible and says that passive action can sometimes be the best option when there is no risk of spreading or dangerous gas formation. However, if contaminated extinguishing water cannot be avoided, MSB recommends that it be collected afterwards for destruction.
i-f631550c23a244ec-359	Madam President, I would like Now we stand here again and debate electric cars and electric car fires and how they affect the environment. I think that's good. I really feel that we do not yet have sufficient knowledge and guidelines on these issues. The number of electric cars in Sweden is increasing, and this also increases the risk of electric car fires. Extinguishing an ordinary car requires about 1 000 litres of water, but putting out an electric car fire requires a lot more. I have been told that most rescue services in Sweden are not actually dimensioned to extinguish electric car fires with the number of litres of water needed and the time it takes. Then there is quite a risk of contaminated water leaking into our environment and soils. In Sweden, there is no explicit legal requirement for a so-called extinguishing water investigation to be carried out or what it should contain. They are made, but to varying degrees. The purpose of such an investigation is to investigate the amount of contaminated extinguishing water that may occur during an extinguishing operation. However, there is no legal requirement for them to be implemented, and even less so, there are clear guidelines. Therefore, there are huge differences in how extinguishing water investigations are carried out by different actors and what they contain. After all, there is a greater risk that we will have contaminated extinguishing water in our environment. The environmental code, which the Minister also mentions, is clear with demands for knowledge and caution when it is the responsibility of the rescue leader to ensure that there is sufficient knowledge of different extinguishing methods and that the greatest possible caution should be exercised in selecting extinguishing agents and methods to prevent the occurrence of pollution damage. I stumbled yesterday over a case study on extinguishing water investigations, Case study on extinguishing water investigations – from the Wild West towards an industry practice, which came in Lund this year. It is clear that it is actually quite unclear about these issues. It's a little wild west, actually. In my interpellation, I am also addressing this with the lack of clarity. I wonder what reasons lie behind the fact that there are currently no national guidelines for the disposal of contaminated water in our municipalities. I also asked whether the Minister intends to draw up national guidelines. I do not know whether to interpret the Minister's answer as saying that this is not going to happen, because I did not actually get an answer to that. In that case, I have to ask the follow-up question: how are we to ensure that we do not have an increased influx of contaminated water into our environment?
i-f631550c23a244ec-367	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for a continued debate on the theme of electric cars, this time with a little more focus on just contaminated extinguishing water! Let me make a small entry comment: water is the extinguishing agent most used by emergency services in Sweden to combat fires. Water is collected from the pipeline network or pumped from lakes. Water that is not vaporized when used to extinguish fires can be more or less polluted, and that depends on what has burned. It is this that determines what is in the contaminated extinguishing water. What the location of the fire looks like determines how complicated it becomes. Contaminated extinguishing water is by no means a new phenomenon. This is something that rescue services work with every day. It is also not unique for electric car fires, but in electric car fires the amount of contaminated water is larger and there are more different components in it afterwards, which makes demands. Regardless of the type of fire involved, MSB's recommendation to the emergency services is to prevent the spread of extinguishing water as far as possible, but when necessary it should be collected afterwards for destruction. This Recommendation applies to all types of fires where water is used as an extinguishing method. So it is not unique for electric car fires. If you go in and read in more detail in the recommendations that are available, you can see that MSB today says that the general approach to car fire extinguishing should be to minimise water use, retain as much of the extinguishing water as possible at the fire site, choose the least bad option and finally try to minimise the damage in different ways. In an extinguishing insert, MSB advises, for example, to cover wells, prevent leakage to other pipe trenches, embed into a place where there is dense ground, collect extinguishing water, soak up extinguishing water with sludge suction truck and clean extinguishing water with mobile purification. So there are a lot of recommendations in this regard. Then comes another guide on this particular issue later this year that MSB, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has developed. I think there is a lot of knowledge in this area. There are many things that have happened in recent years. It has worked to finance projects to develop methods and techniques and to develop collection equipment. There is a very active development work both in the municipal emergency services and linked to MSB as an authority. I mean, it should go on. I have great confidence that municipal rescue services and MSB take this issue very seriously.
i-f631550c23a244ec-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, I also have great confidence that this will be done because new data are being produced. But how do we then ensure that there is actually expertise out there in Sweden's emergency services and that this is actually implemented, so that we do not get contaminated extinguishing water out in our environment? I think the world is changing. We're getting more and more electric cars. We have to take altitude for that. We need more knowledge and other things. Now there are methods used for the purification of extinguishing water, which MSB has developed. Some places in Sweden have facilities that receive contaminated water for purification. In some other places it is a little longer to go, and it looks a little less. Even here in our capital – this is what I've been told – it's very difficult to get rid of contaminated water on a Friday night. So it's difficult outside office hours. Unfortunately, the fires are not quite right after office hours. The costs are also quite high in some cases. It is therefore difficult to give up this, but it is also a cost that is imposed on our Swedish emergency services, which in turn burdens our Swedish municipalities' budgets. I asked a question in my interpellation about this with money. I repeat: does the Minister and the Government intend to compensate Sweden's municipalities for the risk of contaminated water increasing due to the threat of more electric car fires? Now I have actually got your budget, and it was not there. I take it that it is not intended to replace Sweden's municipalities for this. Then I wonder: How does the Minister really think about it? Electric cars are increasing more and more, and there are clear guidelines on increased electrification. But then? Those who sit with s varte in the first place in this are Sweden's municipalities and Sweden's rescue services. What does the minister say to them?
i-f631550c23a244ec-381	Madam President, I would like Civil protection is a municipal task. The task is to deal with fires or accidents, so there is no change in the division of responsibilities we are talking about here. Municipalities must take height for an increased risk of accidents. The nature of community planning affects the activities of a municipality, and it is different in the country. As far as electric fires are concerned, I share the view that, generally speaking, electric car fires will increase over time. Between 2018 and 2020 we in Sweden have had 34 reported electric car fires. It is not very much in relation to how many fires the rescue services are dealing with over three years in our country. But I share the picture. So far – we had a discussion on this last time – we do not see that there is an increased tendency for electric cars to burn compared to the fossil cars we have today. But we will see how it develops over time. It may be that older electric cars have a greater tendency to burn, as Anstrell pointed out. We haven't seen that yet. But as we get more and more electric cars, there is a greater risk that electric cars will burn – that is quite correct. But when it comes to contaminated water, I think you have to see that it is bigger than just electric cars. It's about all kinds of fires. The rescue services are using a lot of water to put out fires today and will have to do so in the future as well. Then environmental aspects are important, so that groundwater, for example, is not affected or deteriorated. This is an issue we are working on, but we may be able to return to the discussion after the guidance from MSB and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been developed. I believe that it will have an impact on how the municipal rescue services can work and give better decision support for the work that needs to be done. Ultimately, however, there is legislation that requires civil protection to take the environment into account when carrying out its rescue operations.
i-f631550c23a244ec-386	Madam President, I would like Yes, I look forward to us continuing the debate when that basis comes. With regard to calculating extinguishing water, this involves both the expected burning time and the flow of fire water. As I said earlier, the case study from Lund that I fell over yesterday, the Case Study on Extinguishing Water Investigations – from the Wild West towards an industry standard, shows that there is quite a big lack of clarity and that there are large differences between different actors. Actually, I hadn't read it before I wrote my interpellation. But I can tell you that reading it did not reassure me. I am thinking: Come on, Minister! Shouldn't we be able to get some clarity here? It would surely be good for our environment with national guidelines for the safe disposal of contaminated water in all municipalities.
i-f631550c23a244ec-389	Madam President, I would like I think we can come back to that discussion several times. But MSB, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has said that they have currently developed a guide that will be published later this autumn. The guidance is intended as general support for fires where water is contaminated and will highlight the importance of stakeholders working together with the management of contaminated extinguishing water to reduce toxic emissions and damage to the environment. The knowledge acquisition in this area in recent years will be reported in the guide, so it will probably be a very good support for the development work that needs to be done in this area.
i-f631550c23a244ec-391	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what initiatives I have taken to ensure that Sweden's preparedness for environmental rescue is modern and also manages hybrid oils and how I plan for the Coast Guard to carry out its mission, which involves new skills, new technology and possibly new materials. Furthermore, she has asked me what tasks I believe the Coast Guard can prioritise away in order to be able to both keep the budget and carry out its mission. From an environmental and safety perspective, it is of great importance to be able to effectively monitor and protect Sweden's seas, coastal areas and larger lakes. The Coast Guard is a key player in the area and is responsible for carrying out environmental rescue and other rescue services at sea as well as maritime surveillance. For its mission, the Coast Guard has a large number of ships stationed on 20 coastal stations along the Swedish coast, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren as well as aircraft stationed at an air-coast station in Nyköping. The Coast Guard continuously analyses the changing threat picture and the capabilities needed for an effective environmental rescue service and environmental monitoring at sea now and in the future. The Authority has e xemplistically identified that certain new types of fuels that are transported or used as fuel at sea require new technologies and methodologies for environmental rescue operations. In this work, the Coast Guard interacts with other responsible authorities and also with its counterparts in the EU and neighbouring countries. Since 2018, the Government has contributed approximately SEK 140 million to the Swedish Coast Guard, with the aim of maintaining and strengthening the agency's operations and capabilities. The Government proposes in the budget proposal for 2022 that the appropriation for the Coast Guard be increased by SEK 30.5 million and calculates the corresponding contributions per year in 2023 and 2024. The increase in appropriations is aimed, inter alia, at strengthening the Agency's capacity for environmental monitoring and rescue services at sea and contributing to the EU's border and maritime fisheries control. In the framework of its mission, the Coast Guard continuously develops its capabilities in line with the development of the world around it and takes the necessary measures to carry out its activities as efficiently as possible. It will continue to closely monitor developments to ensure Sweden's capacity for environmental monitoring and rescue services at sea.
i-f631550c23a244ec-397	Madam President, I would like I visited the Coast Guard a few weeks ago and found out that it is a problem with the new hybrid oils. They do not attach to the bilge in the same way as so-called old petroleum oil. So they stay in the water. It is felt that they can become waxy or simply remain in the water. The Coast Guard has an environmental rescue service at sea, and in the event of a spill of oil or other harmful substances, it is they who have the task to take care of it. It will be rather difficult to bring up anything if you do not have tools or equipment for it. A study conducted in 2017 by the Norwegian National Board of Crafts showed that there were also problems with regard to the use of hybrid oil. About 80% of merchant shipping is currently using new low sulphur fuels, where hybrid oil accounts for a large part. However, we do not know what the percentage is. Even here in Sweden it has been found that the hybrid oil is difficult to take up, which means that the Coast Guard as a whole has a very limited ability to perform an effective environmental rescue operation if the hybrid oils are in an accident, because our harvesting systems are adapted for petroleum oil. I think that one issue that would need to be highlighted more by research is how they dissolve even in the water masses over time, how much risk there is of contamination, and what it would look like. In this debate too, I am therefore looking for adequate protection and control of our water. I have therefore asked the minister responsible what initiatives he has taken to ensure that Sweden's preparedness for environmental rescue is modern and can also withstand hybrid oils. However, the Minister will be guilty of the answer.
i-f631550c23a244ec-402	Madam President, I would like My point in the answer is that the Coast Guard must constantly follow a changing threat picture, i.e. when new fuels or other things come, the conditions for the Coast Guard's work may change. That's what's happening right now. I have no other opinion than the interpellier. This is a new challenge for the Coast Guard and not only in Sweden but also in our neighbouring countries and throughout the EU. There is currently no really effective technology and methodology for emissions of fuel with lighter fractions. The Authority is therefore reviewing its ability to heal and store these new ship fuels in a medium-range manner so that discharges into water can be limited. It is trying to look at developing this new capability in cooperation with the EU and our neighbouring countries. It participates in the project Imaro, which is run by the Norwegian Kystverket and which aims to develop knowledge about how these new types of fuel can be taken care of. This new threat picture is also the main theme of the National Conference on Oil Pollution Protection organised by the National Oil Pollution Cooperation Group. MSB is cohesive and the Coast Guard is the host authority for this year's conference. The issue is therefore being worked hard, but it is not the first time that new phenomena have arisen that the Coast Guard and other authorities have to deal with.
i-f631550c23a244ec-406	Madam President, I would like We have had a number of debates about the Coast Guard, where I have also said in the past that I do not think the government has heeded the Coast Guard's call for help. So they have received more and more tasks but no more money. Nor have they received any directives on what should be removed from the to-do list. The Minister now tells us that the government is investing 30.5 million in the Coast Guard. It was great, but they loved 74 million, of which 33 million was for staff costs and 34 million for fossil-free operation, for example. With the Government's budget effort of less than half of what the Authority has requested, my question remains: What tasks does the Government consider that the Coast Guard can prioritise away in order to both keep the budget and carry out its mission? Is it the case that the Red-Green Government wants to give the Authority a free card in terms of fossil-free operation, or is it the fossil-free operation that is so important that the Authority will not be able to afford staff? The Coast Guard writes in its request that in order to be able to meet the requirements of the Agency, they need to increase the number of annual workers by 150 people during the budget base period 2022 – 2024. The question is, Madam President, whether the Minister and the Government really have a plan or whether they are smashing up everything they can on an unnecessary family week in the budget rather than taking seriously responsibility for our environment and emergency preparedness.
i-f631550c23a244ec-412	Madam President, I would like The government is very clear that we must move towards fossil freedom. It must be for our authorities. However, when it comes to the conversion of the Coast Guard into a fossil-free fleet, it is a fairly extensive conversion that will take a very long time to implement. It is not taken care of by the budgetary efforts presented by the government now, linked to the agency. You can always discuss exactly how much money an authority should receive in grants. I can only conclude by saying that the government is giving the agency about SEK 30 million in increased funding, which was what the interpeller argued that the Moderates proposed that the agency should receive in our last debate just a few weeks ago.
i-f631550c23a244ec-414	Madam President, I would like A lot has happened since we had the last debate. For example, you have presented a new budget, and the Moderates, too, of course, intend to do so. I guess we'll have to get back to that part. As we have discussed before, the staff situation within the Coast Guard is strained, which has also had a direct impact on the ability. For a total of 75 days with too few environmental monitoring or combination vessels, the Coast Guard has not had a satisfactory level of preparedness and presence at sea. They also failed to meet the targets for cancellation time at 22% of this year's environmental rescue operations. I think it can have devastating consequences if the wrong kind of accident happens, if you can put it that way, and we have very harmful emissions. There will be difficulties when you cannot carry out planned ordinary activities. My final question to the Minister is: How is the Coast Guard expected to be an important player in building our total defence when they are not even given the opportunity to complete their basic mission?
i-f631550c23a244ec-418	Madam President, I would like Coast Guard is a unique authority with a unique capacity to act at sea and at sea. Few other authorities even come close. This also means that this authority can help for the good of society in quite a number of different respects and has several important legs to stand on. One of those legs is, of course, the development of civil defence, but also support for military defence in the event of war. The government has helped with large financial efforts in various ways to correct some of the large deficits and problems that existed in the agency. Now we have announced that for next year we are proposing 30 new million SEK to the agency, but it is reasonable that the agency is constantly forced to make difficult balances and to decide what type of activity must be prioritised within the framework of the mission it has. I have great confidence that the management of the Coast Guard is handling this to the best of their ability. Hopefully it will be a little easier when you get 30 new million SEK next year.
i-f631550c23a244ec-422	Madam President, I would like Firstly, Angelica Lundberg has asked me what concrete initiatives are aimed at young people I see a need for in view of the doubling of debt restructuring applications from young people and over-indebtedness as growing societal problems, secondly, whether I can consider introducing a complete debt register and, thirdly, how I see the need to revise the law on high-cost credits so that invoice purchases that are transferred to part-payments are included. In recent years, consumer loans have grown rapidly, and this type of loan can have a major impact on people's personal finances. I fully agree with Angelica Lundberg that it is worrying that young people are in deep debt and that many end up in the Reg Ister of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. The government takes the issue of over-indebtedness very seriously and has therefore taken a number of initiatives, as Angelica Lundberg also points out, from you in recent years. In the nitative one includes changes to legislation, mandates to authorities and other supporting and preventive measures. For example, the government has introduced an interest and cost ceiling for so-called high-cost credits. The reform appears to have contributed, according to an analysis by Finansinspektionen, to reducing the supply of high-cost credit. Last year, provision was also made for a redit option not to be pre-selected or presented before other means of payment in e-commerce. According to a recently published report from Finansinspektionen, the measure contributes to reducing the risk of consumers being attracted to unsubstantiated e-commerce credits. This summer, the European Commission presented a proposal for a new consumer credit directive. The government welcomes the proposal and intends in the negotiations to promote a high and balanced level of consumer protection. It is also important that companies that provide consumer loans act responsibly. A good credit assessment helps to reduce the risks associated with consumer loans. The Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have stated that the industry must take greater responsibility for the consumption loans. The Swedish Consumer Agency has recently decided on new general guidelines, and Finansinspektionen has also proposed new general guidelines to clarify how creditors should act in order to meet the requirements for good lending practice and credit testing. Having said that, the government continues to follow the issue of over-indebtedness and creditworthiness testing of consumer loans. The government does not rule out the need for further measures to counter over-indebtedness.
i-f631550c23a244ec-426	Madam President, I would like The problems of over-indebtedness caused by consumption by private individuals are considerable. The sum of the claims that the Swedish people currently have with the enforcement officer and various debt collection companies is approximately 165 billion. It's not exactly pennies. In addition to the problems they pose in the private economy with poor creditworthiness, which can lead to difficulties in obtaining loans or in obtaining and maintaining housing, over-indebtedness also leads to suffering and mental illness. According to a report from the Swedish Consumer Agency 2015, one in six debtors tried to kill themselves. Anxiety and depression are heavily over-represented in the group of people in debt compared to the general population. Madam President, I would like This government has now been in power for a little over seven years. In fact, during this time little has improved. Even when it comes to over-indebtedness, the government has not succeeded. It is good that Åsa Lindhagen and I seem to share the problem picture of over-indebtedness, but I lack answers to what concrete measures the Government sees need for and intends to take – specifically when it comes to the group of young people, where we know that the problems are increasing significantly. The fact that the European Commission is now proposing a new consumer credit directive is perhaps a good thing, but it is not enough just to sit and wait for new EU rules. We must act here and now to reverse the trend, and the key to prevention is young people. It can have devastating consequences for young people to enter adult life with debt. More and more young people are applying for debt restructuring from the Swedish Enforcement Authority. In many cases, it has been reported that debt restructuring seems to be seen as something that can easily be applied for and as a simple way out, but the problems actually lead to gaps in knowledge. This will also be a negative spiral, as unhealthy indebtedness among young people risks leading to fewer children in the future being able to assimilate knowledge from their parents. Young people's knowledge of private finances needs to be improved. Therefore, we need to investigate how schools can take greater responsibility for strengthening young people's knowledge of private finances and how cooperation between schools, relevant authorities and industry companies can be developed. This is something that has been requested, for example, by credit management companies, economists and also by the Young Private Economy initiative. Can Åsa Lindhagen consider supporting such a proposal to strengthen young people's knowledge of private finances?
i-f631550c23a244ec-432	Madam President, I would like These are extremely important issues that have been raised here. I think that the Member of Parliament describes very well what the consequences of these issues are in people's lives. It is not least about young people, as we know, the borrowers who are most at risk of problems. This can mean that a young person takes his first steps into adulthood and is over-indebted. This leads to mental illness and a variety of difficulties in everyday life. I am very concerned about developments. These are issues where the government has taken several measures in recent years. As regards deleveraging, a new debt restructuring law came in 2016, which will make it easier to have deleveraging granted. Then there is the new law that a credit option must not be pre-selected. It's about people making an active choice to trade on credit. Furthermore, an interest and cost ceiling has been introduced, which means that you should not be able to lend money in any way and make any profit. There must be some order in the financial markets. Here, the actors have an extremely important and important responsibility. This responsibility is not taken on by all those involved in lending. That is why the government has seen the need to introduce the new laws. What is highlighted here about what you can bring with you in terms of economics as a young person, already in school, is important. My entry into the questions is that the government does not rule out any action. Among other things, we have looked at the importance of the legislation that has been introduced. Need more to be done? There are also several authorities working in a network to strengthen opportunities for private economic education, also towards groups where more knowledge is needed. It is extremely important to do this work. These were some reflections on these issues, and I thank them for having been raised here in Parliament.
i-f631550c23a244ec-437	Frau President! I thank the Government for its answer. Not only do the problems of over-indebtedness give the individual and his family, over-indebtedness also costs society 30 to 50 billion kronor each year. In view of this, the Swedish Democrats are now launching a strong action programme with 20 points above what is necessary to halt the negative trend in over-indebtedness. Part of this action programme is to investigate how a complete debt register can be introduced. The trade organisation Svensk Inkasso states that at the turn of 2020/ 21, there were more than SEK 77 billion in capital receivables against consumers from debt collection companies. It's almost a doubling in ten years. These debts are not reflected in a credit report, which means that creditors, even if they want to, cannot get a complete picture of the consumer's financial situation. The risk is therefore that consumers will be granted loans and credits that they are unable to repay. In order to improve credit assessments, Finansinspektionen has repeatedly pointed out that the Government is to set up an investigation into a complete debt register. Finansinspektionen also says that proper credit assessments are the most important tool to prevent consumers from having payment problems. I debated the matter with Mr Lindhagen's predecessor, Mr Per Bolund, about a year ago. In that debate he said that the matter was being prepared at the Government Office. I would therefore like to hear how that preparation is going. It's been a year. True, the coronap pandemic has been going on. But not much has happened. What the government has actually done, and as Åsa Lindhagen raises, was to introduce the law on high-cost credits. It is credit where the total cost, the annual percentage rate of charge, is higher than 30 % plus the reference rate. For these credits, the total cost may not exceed twice the amount of the loan. Marketing shall be moderate and the credit shall be marked with a warning triangle. That regulation is good. But it is not comprehensive, because not all consumer credit is included. Credits that are initially interest-free and have a short repayment period do not count as high-cost credits, even if they then move to partial payments and then receive an interest rate of 30 per cent or more. In these cases, the credit can be very costly. According to the Swedish Consumer Agency's 2020 survey, as many as 155,000 invoices were converted into instalments in a single month. Therefore, the legislation needs to be amended so that these credits are also covered by the Act on High Cost Credits. It also needs to be examined whether the limit should be lowered for when a credit is counted as a high-cost credit. 30% is a fairly high interest rate. The strong package of measures by the Swedish democrats also proposes a limit on the amount of high-cost credits a person can hold in total relative to his or her income. If the borrower already has large high-interest credits, it is reasonable that they should be paid off before being able to take more high-cost credits. That would be a powerful brake.
i-f631550c23a244ec-446	Madam President, I would like I welcome all suggestions on how we can take further steps forward in limiting the over-indebtedness we see. It affects not least young people, but also people with low incomes are at increased risk of falling into a very difficult economic situation. And there are players in the market who benefit from it. I don't have much for that. In politics, it is always important to consider all the proposals that are made. I would therefore like to thank them. Partial payments, for example, are something to keep an eye on in the new proposal from the European Commission on consumer credit. There, of course, Sweden should have an active role in seeing how we can strengthen the consumer perspective and what parts of that directive are available that, once in place, can facilitate people's everyday lives in the future. It is also an important issue to have with you. The Act on High Cost Credits was introduced in 2018. It's not that long ago. As is the case with all new legislation, I think it is reasonable to always consider whether there are things that you need to screw further on and whether there are holes that you want to plug. These are my entrances to that. Debt registers are a matter raised by several actors. Finansinspektionen also highlights this in its consumer protection report. It's a suggestion that's in the Government Office. I understand the views on the value of introducing such a register. I think that there is nothing that will solve the problems in the short term, because it would have to be investigated. You need to look at how it can be done. How do you set up a debt register? There may also be other countries where this is in place. If so, what can we learn from them? We also need to look at certain aspects of privacy that I believe may be important in relation to those issues. When the issue has been discussed, I have been very clear that the actors operating on the financial market cannot hide behind the fact that we do not have a debt register in Sweden. They have an enormous responsibility for also conducting credit assessments. In fact, only simple credit education can in some cases mean that people do not suffer from a very difficult situation if they become over-indebted. That is my clear contribution and message to those who operate in the markets. I would also like to thank you for raising the issue.
i-f631550c23a244ec-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer and for the fact that we can have this debate! As I said, it is good that we have the same problem picture. Unfortunately, I believe that Åsa Lindhagen and her government lack proposals for solutions that make a real difference. Of course, some efforts have been made to settle the situation. They have been more or less successful. But the truth is that the government has failed in this area too. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, although the government says in words that it is acting to reduce over-indebtedness, it must also be seen in action. More measures need to be put in place to slow progress. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats are now choosing to launch a strong programme of measures to counter private over-indebtedness. We will present 20 items on Parliament's table. These are proposals for improved credit testing, more restrictions on high-cost credits, more stringent rules on the marketing and advertising of loans and credit, among other things. These measures are necessary to reverse the trend. I hope that we can continue to discuss solutions to this serious problem and that all the fine words and promises spoken in this House will also lead to action.
i-f631550c23a244ec-458	Madam President, I would like As I said, I welcome the debate on these important issues. The government has done a number of different things. This applies, among other things, to the law that credit alternatives must not be pre-selected. We have introduced an interest and cost ceiling. And we have a new debt restructuring bill. Now, 2021, Finansinspektionen is also looking closely at how creditors conduct credit assessments and whether they live up to good credit granting practices. They are also revising their general guidelines for good lending. It is extremely important for the financial market players to feel that we are keeping an eye on the issue, and they have a responsibility to do what they can not put people in a difficult situation. A number of measures have been taken. I also welcome suggestions on how to develop the measures already implemented and all the proposals on taking steps forward so that people, not least young people and people who are already in a difficult financial situation, are not affected by the fact that financial market players are more interested in making money than avoid the risk that people get it very tough financially.
