i-259274b61a5880ad-1	Mr President, I would like to I had not seen this debate at all when I was elected as a Member of Parliament in the last election. I had seen before me that most of my energy and time would be devoted to discussing social welfare reforms and other important things, but instead much of Parliament's and my time during the year has been absorbed by discussing a deadly threat, a pandemic. So far, about 10 000 people have died in our country, and half a million people have been infected by the pandemic. I am very concerned about Sweden's situation and about what can happen in the coming months. These fears are compounded by what can be seen in the world around us. In Britain, the government warns that healthcare could collapse within 20 days. Death rates are rising in a wide range of European countries as well as in the United States. Many put their hope in the coming vaccines and believe that they will be the easy way out of the pandemic. I am afraid that it will be much, much worse before the vaccines will bite properly and that we will face major and difficult challenges in the coming months. I would therefore like to say that what will probably help us most in the coming period is not the vaccine but hand hygiene and keeping distance. That will be the most important thing we can do right now. So far, we have worked a lot on voluntary recommendations. In the spring of last year, we saw that people followed the voluntary recommendations to a large extent. Today we can see that they bite less and less. We've been working on a temporary CDC that we had last spring. We have worked on the laws that exist, and it is increasingly evident that they are not enough. It can be seen out in our everyday lives. I myself am a Stockholmer, and I often talk about Stockholm, which I get a lot of criticism for. But I think we all work on the basis of the reality in which we live and work. In my home district the Globe is closed while the shopping centres around are open and overcrowded by people. My favourite restaurant in Stockholm, Pelikan – by the way, a fantastic restaurant – has great difficulties to survive because legislation, restrictions and other things do not get enough customers. It's almost empty and abandoned. But just a few hundred meters away there is Friski's and Svetti's facility, which is completely overcrowded by people who are crowded and sweating. Current legislation is not enough if we are to avoid congestion. It is for this reason that the government has produced a proposal for a new, temporary pandemic law. It will provide the government and authorities with much better tools to intervene, make good applications and introduce sufficient restrictions to restrict congestion. Then there are dangers and risks. At this point, we give the government and the authorities far-reaching powers. For me, it is important what the Constitutional Committee has said. Nevertheless, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that this is reasonable and within the boundaries of the Constitution, and that means a great deal. It also means a lot to me that the bill clearly states that the government must return to Parliament within a week when it comes to more far-reaching restrictions. I think it's a prerequisite for this to work. Mr President, I would like to Since we are still in a chamber full of party politicians, one might imagine that covid-19 could be a battlefield for party politics. I don't think it is. I think that Parliament's parties have so far shown great responsibility, and I think that the parties in the Social Committee have shown great responsibility. In the Social Committee, the parties have met government representatives and government representatives and discussed all the way about how to fight the pandemic. There has been a very broad and broad consensus on which measures are appropriate. I think it is a strength for Swedish democracy that we do not engage in party political games when we face this serious social crisis, but instead together we try to do what is best for our country in this difficult situation. In today's bill there is very broad agreement on almost everything. However, there is a proposal for an announcement under paragraph 3 which my party does not intend to support, and that is because we think it is breaking an open door. It is about financial compensation for those who are subject to any restrictions, and it is stated in the announcement that it is a general rule that they should be replaced. We think this is breaking an open door. We believe that these principles were already established on 17 December when the Parliament then made an announcement. I know that the Government Office is working hard to find ways and means to compensate the businesses, employees and entrepreneurs affected by restrictions. When you're dealing with these kinds of questions, it's easy to be hindsight. We politicians, Mr President, sometimes tend to say that things would have been much better if they had done differently a few months ago. I can see that everything would have been much better if we had had a crisis legislation for peacetime crises and disasters on the ground. I can see that it would have been much better if we had not decommissioned the pharmaceutical stock of the pharmacy company. I can see that everything would have been much better had we had national security stocks for protective equipment and other things. I can see that everything would have been much better if we had had a temporary pandemic law in place earlier. But I can also say that all parties bear a responsibility for that not being the case, and everyone should devote a moment of hindsight to thinking about this. There was no party that in the early spring thought one should have a new, temporary pandemic law. The party that first put forward that demand was the Center Party, which deserves credit for this. If I remember correctly, it happened at the end of late summer or early autumn. But early in the spring, it was the demand for new crisis legislation that was in force in our country. The hindsight is there. We shall be aware of that. I think we are going to need a lot of evaluations, and I am already looking at the Corona Commission's first report that there are conclusions to be drawn on how elderly care should look in our country in the future. So far, however, I am in favour of the Social Affairs Committee's proposal and of the Social Democrats' reservation under paragraph 3.
i-259274b61a5880ad-17	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that the government has now put forward proposals for new legislation as a legal basis for further restrictions. The Coronapandemy has had severe consequences for our society, and there have been many losses. In the difficult time we are experiencing, we must act rationally. We must do everything in our power to save lives and prevent more suffering. Our starting point is and has been throughout the pandemic to take responsibility. Of course, we want to facilitate decisions that create room for more accurate measures, and that is why we also see the need for a temporary covid-19 law. We can note that Sweden's lack of emergency laws that would enable a much more effective management of a social crisis distinguishes us from many other countries. The restrictions imposed so far by the Government, primarily under delegation regulations in the Order Act and the Alcohol Act, have not been satisfactory, either in terms of accuracy in relation to the effect on the spread of infection or, for that matter, from a constitutional perspective. The possibilities of limiting public gatherings and public events by means of the Order Act are, to say the least, blunt, as the measures meet a narrow part of the meeting places where there is a risk of infection. Congestion in public transport, in commerce or in various private-sector arrangements is not affected by existing restrictions. At the same time, we have been able to witness how restrictions have instead hit disproportionately against individual industries and other sectors of society. It's not sustainable. The constitutionally protected democratic rights of freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and demonstration are largely reflected in provisions on general assembly. It is therefore, to say the least, a remarkable order when constitutionally protected gatherings, such as demonstrations or political meetings, are more strictly limited than, for example, private parties. Mr President, I would like to The very purpose of applying restrictions must be to save lives and to reduce the burden on our health care, which is currently under great strain. We believe that the decisions on restrictions that are taken must be able to be adapted. The measures should therefore be applied in contexts where they are most useful based on an interest in disease protection. It is also important to take particular account of the need to protect as much as possible those groups of society that are at risk of the worst of the pandemic. In addition to clarity and accuracy, the right to compensation for individuals who are adversely affected financially by decisions taken pursuant to this law needs to be clarified. I am pleased that the majority of the committee's parties share this view. The Swedish Democrats also wish to emphasise the importance of the decisions taken with powers that are temporarily delegated to the Government and the balances made by the Government as soon as possible should be subject to the Riksdag's assessment and control power. Continuous information on the development of new regulations and planned measures is also an essential element, and we welcome the fact that we have reached a broader consensus on this issue as well. For us Swedish democrats, the best interests of the child are always a central starting point. Therefore, it is absolutely essential for us that regulations or decisions that affect children should always take into account what the child's best interests require. The Act on Disease Control provides for special consideration to be given to the best interests of the child in relation to measures relating to children. We believe that there are given reasons to transpose the provisions of the Disease Control Act concerning the child's best interests into the Temporary Covid-19 Act. The Act on Disease Control also lays down other conditions for measures to protect infection that are granted under the Act on Disease Control. Actions shall be based on science and proven experience. The scientific evidence concerning covid-19 is constantly improving. We do not believe that there is any reason to deviate from the principle of requiring that available knowledge be the basis for decision-making on measures taken to respond to the current pandemic. Today, we have no guaranteed knowledge of how the situation will develop in the future. The genetic development of the infection, the effects of the vaccination campaign and several other elements may affect the need for restrictions and changes in the authorisation. Therefore, we consider it extremely relevant to shorten the period of validity of the Act until the end of May 2021, so that the Riksdag is given the opportunity to test an extension of the Covid-19 Act based on the needs that are relevant at that particular time. Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation, that is, reservation number 1.
i-259274b61a5880ad-34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am addressing all of you in health care, which is tearing down as the spread of infection has increased again and to others who continue to put their lives on hold, especially all 70-plusers who have long had to stay away and who have not been able to approach their children and grandchildren. The Pandemine is tearing us all mentally, not only in Sweden, but all over the world. The spread of the disease must now be reduced. Now fewer people have to go to hospital. Now, fewer people have to die, that's all. When we all – or those who want – hopefully have vaccinated us by the end of June, we should know that we did everything we could to prevent the spread of infection. We should know that both as individuals and as a society. It is about us as a collective, about how we behave, about whether we are going to close or open, Mr President. The intensity of the second wave, which we are now living under, was not understood by many during the summer and early autumn. This was not the case in Europe, nor in Sweden. But the government would have come up with this bill earlier, perhaps already in October, to secure up under a possible second wave and to have suspenders and belt. The fast pucks benefit no one, we believe. But I think very few thought that the intensity of the second wave would be so great. Even the Center Party does not have in its very good committee initiative a series on a second wave. And Björn Olsen, chief physician and professor of infectious diseases, says on October 5 in Expressen: No, I don't think it's a second wave. We've said that for a long time, and it won't be anyone. Mr President, I would like to Now that the Pandemic Act comes, it is the government's poor foresight and preparedness that has contributed to a sharp reduction in the deadline for referrals. It has also made it more difficult for us in the opposition to deepen the impact of the proposed legislation on a society as a whole. The handling of the law places huge demands on continuous monitoring of the law. If there is a need for further legislation – we have no idea of that today – due to increased spread of infection, the government should involve the opposition at a much earlier stage of the process. It'll give you a better basis to stand on. Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, it is extremely important that a new covid-19 law be used with great caution. The law and authorisations should only be used when no other available measures have proved sufficient. Any proposal to restrict people's freedom of movement must be time-limited and proportionate. That is why we welcome the fact that the government has shortened the period of validity to the last September of this year – that is very good. The more society shuts down, the more public health is affected. Several studies carried out in Sweden and around the world show how children and young people are affected when parks, swimming homes, football fields and schools are closed. Especially children who are having a hard time at home are hit very hard. That is why the children's perspective must be put into this. If the beach, playground and green area of a particular area are completely closed, it can lead to people with limited resources and without access to a car being stuck in their homes without the possibility of play, recreation and exercise. The Left Party also sees problems with how such a ban – it could be about closing a park game – should be checked and followed. And who in this area can be considered to be responsible for the crime? We would also like to point out that the application of the law, if fully used, will have more negative and far-reaching consequences for economically vulnerable groups in society. People who live cramped are hit harder when activities and social meeting places are shut down – that's how it is. They have no summer cottages to which they can travel. It is important that the regulations and decisions made pursuant to the law do not extend beyond what is strictly necessary. The Left therefore considers that the validity of the regulations and decisions made pursuant to the law should be regulated and reviewed continuously. The proposal also proposes that some of the Government's regulations issued pursuant to the new Act be submitted, within a week, to the parliamentary scrutiny by means of a proposal in each individual case. Like a large number of referrals, the Left Party wants that time to be shortened to immediately. I would therefore like to raise reservation 2, Mr President. The bill proposes that the government should be allowed to make provision for a ban on gathering in a society of a certain size in places where the public has access. Let's say I have a picnic in Haga Park with ten people. Such provisions shall not prohibit the company of persons belonging to the same household. So they must be related to each other or live together. This is going to be very confusing. Someone's going to go around the place and check the kinship. The Left Party does not share the government's assessment of the integrity risks that may arise when the supervisory authority is required to clarify the relationships between different persons in order to assess whether an assembly is justified or not. That is why we want to remove Section 12, the ban on gathering in a society of a certain size, just as the Swedish Public Health Agency and Lund University's faculty board want to do, according to the referrals. Finally, we want to raise the issue of the danger of a mutated virus that we see specifically in the animal industry. In our neighbouring country Denmark, for example, during the past year mutated covid-19 virus was discovered in minks in the fur industry. Now there are reports that the fur industry in Denmark wants to move to Sweden. So you want to take the animals across the border. For the Left Party, it is crucial that you have complete control of this type of animal management so that you can quickly shut down. I hope, Mr President, that we do not have to use this legislation, that instead of closing down, we can finally open up theatres and music venues, go to the restaurant and do all that we are used to doing. I hope that our major attractions Gröna Lund and Liseberg can open and that we can go to Astrid Lindgren's world this summer. I hope we can swim and practice. But it depends on us. It's about how we behave, nothing else. We have to hold out these five months until we get a vaccine. And even after that, we must have certain restrictions on our behaviour, because it is a state of emergency in which we live. I request the approval of reservation 2. I also call for the approval of reservation 3, which we support together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-259274b61a5880ad-54	Mr President, I would like to When Covid-19 was discovered in Wuhan about a year ago, there was every reason for the whole world to poke their ears and get ready. We live in a transnational world, where one flight from one country to another can bring along an infection like covid-19. We have also seen that covid-19 spread rapidly across all the countries of the world. We had a pandemic, and today there have been 9 262 deaths in our country: a grandfather, a friend, a partner, a child. Around the world, 1.9 million people today have died. It does not stop here, because we see that the infection is spreading like wildfire over our world, and we must do everything in every country and in every society to limit the infection. Today, we can rejoice that a vaccine has arrived. It's our point of light in life. It will help us along the way, but it will take time and it will not reach all the way. What we must continue to do is work hard to keep our distance, listen to advice and continue to reduce the spread of infection. Mr President, I would like to When the pandemic struck in our country, Sweden lacked the preparedness we should have had. We lacked the laws that we might have had to use much earlier than today. It is good that the government has now decided to set up a parliamentary committee, in which all parties will be represented, in order to thoroughly dig into how to have better legislation for civil crises for the future. We are well equipped when it is war or war danger, but we have lacked laws for a situation such as the one we find ourselves in today. Mr President, I would like to The government has done a lot since we learned that covid-19 had come to our country. People have been replaced who have been injured, people who have become unemployed and businesses that have not been doing well due to the spread of the disease. People who have become ill have been helped. Of course, we must continue to do this under the temporary covid-19 law that we are discussing here today. But, of course, as in the past, this should be done within the framework of the budgetary cooperation and work that we have. Mr President, I would like to These are far-reaching steps that the government can take with the new law that is on Parliament's table today. It's necessary. We need it. We must do everything we can to reduce the spread of infection. But it is also important that we work restrictively with the law and use it as needed but no more. The law is designed so that you can keep open where you have not previously been able to do so. For example, culture and sport have taken a rather large share of the work to reduce the spread of infection. Much more fine-tuned efforts will be made here to ensure that, once the spread of the disease has settled a little more, it will be possible to remain open and do much more in this area. It is also important to be able to take strong measures and temporarily shut down certain activities and places in order to reduce the infection as soon as the infection strikes. I'm glad we now have the temporary covid-19 law on our table. I am also pleased that we have good cooperation in the Committee on Social Affairs and that we have cooperation between parties throughout the pandemic. When there is a crisis, it is important for citizens to work together to lead the country through the crisis and not to see the issues at issue as the main issues. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I would like to call for approval of the bill and our reservation, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party. I demand that the other motions be rejected.
i-259274b61a5880ad-66	Mr President, I would like to A government must be able to take the initiative and act during a crisis. It is then the task of the Riksdag to decide under which circumstances the Government should be able to take action but also how the consequences should be handled for those affected in a negative way by the measures. The government has made proposals for a temporary covid-19 law. The first question to ask is: Is it needed? The opinion of the Christian Democrats is that we need a pandemic law. The tools used so far by the government to limit the spread of infection are laws that are used based on the need for order and security from a police perspective. It's a way too blunt a tool. Instead, during the pandemic, a law based on the risk of infection is needed – a law that allows for measures where congestion can occur and where, if there are reasons and are proportionate, measures can be taken that can accurately reduce congestion and thus also the risk of infection. There also needs to be principles for the payment of financial compensation or compensation to traders and others affected by the measure. The way in which the financial compensation is then designed and specified is part of the usual budgetary work that is ongoing during the pandemic. The Government memo, which is the basis of the bill that we have on the table today, contained only vague wordings on financial compensation. It was clearly an issue that the government did not want to confuse with the measures. However, we believe that measures and compensation must be linked. Follow-up to a restriction is strengthened if you know that there will be compensation for those who are forced to close completely or significantly restrict their activities, and compliance with restrictions is important. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic requires many victims. These are those who suffer from the disease as well as those who have suffered from the disease and then live with late effects that can be long lasting and significantly impair their lives. Healthcare is doing a great job of providing care to those who have suffered from covid-19, and although I am pleased that more and more people who have suffered from late effects are now receiving care and rehabilitation, more needs to be done for these particular patients. But the pandemic requires more victims. Entrepreneurs see their life's work go down, employees are told and may eventually have to be dismissed – all due to the consequences of covid-19. Financial compensation must therefore be the general rule when the public, the state, decides on measures to reduce the infection. Then the compensation needs to be adapted to the action and situation and dealt with in supplementary amending budgets in the usual way. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the government partly listened to the views expressed by us Christian Democrats on the memorandum and the legislative referral, and that the Government has made it clear in the bill before Parliament today in connection with the Pandemic Act that it intends to state how it sees financial compensation. But that's not enough. The announcement that we have received a majority for in committee is therefore important, and this means that Parliament believes that financial compensation should be the general rule. This means that as soon as the government takes action on the basis of the Pandemic Act, it is advised that, in addition to the presentation of how it views compensation for those affected, it should also report how it intends to do so on the basis that compensation is the general rule. This will be decided by the Parliament today. Mr President, I would like to Should it be 30, 14 or 7 days? Yes, the Government memo stated that decisions based on the law would not be submitted to the Riksdag until 30 days later. In the Council of Law referral, the government adjusted the time to 14 days because the consultation bodies and political parties had views that the time was too long. In its opinion, the Council considered that a week is the reasonable time for submission. When the government finally presents the bill, it is one week – seven days – that applies. The Christian Democrats believe that the government should submit these decisions to the Riksdag as soon as possible, but no later than within a week. That is reasonable because it gives Parliament a chance to act if we consider the measure to be not proportionate. It wouldn't have been reasonable for 30 days. I am grateful that this deadline also became the committee's position, and I assume that the government will follow it. Mr President, I would like to The Authorisation Act was adopted last spring. At the time, the government was satisfied after agreement was reached with all parties in the Riksdag. The Law of Authorisation expired on 30 June without the government using it once. Since then, the spread of infection has increased, and we actually have a second wave. This second wave is in line with, or perhaps worse than, the first wave of the spring. It is remarkable that the government did not present early this autumn a new pandemic law that could have provided the necessary tools to break the escalating spread of infection in society. The government's passivity has been costly in many ways. When the government did not act, initiatives were taken in the Riksdag. I took note of the Center's initiative as early as June. Surely they were out early with the first memos about the need for a pandemic law. On 17 December, however, the Riksdag decided that a pandemic law was needed and that it should contain guidelines for financial compensation for activities that are affected. At that time, the government was speeded up, and on 28 December, a Council of Law referral was made containing proposals for a law that will take effect on 10 January. The bill came to Parliament on Monday. Today we make decisions. Parliament is not slow. The government is slow. The Christian Democrats and I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-259274b61a5880ad-82	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed a troubled time in which we find ourselves. Around the world we reach scenes that we hardly thought were possible, and globally we are fighting a pandemic that strikes, and has hit, hard on people's lives and on the health care staff, who are struggling in a way that I believe to get of us really understand. It strikes at businesses and jobs where people see their life's work broken down and disappear. The effects of a closed-down society are many for people's physical and mental health and for people's livelihoods and for having to pay for something as basic as food and rent. There will be effects on values such as music, history, culture and sport – values that may be impossible to restore. The light in this pandemic tunnel is that vaccinations against covid-19 have started. Mr President, I would like to Although Sweden has not shut down as much as many other countries, the economic impact on many businesses and many people has been merciless, and many have seen their life's work go to waste. We Moderates are proud that we have been a constructive party throughout the pandemic and pushed the government ahead of us when it comes to important support for businesses and businesses, for example – big as well as the so important small businesses. Mr President, I would like to Since spring, Secretary of State Maja Fjaestad contacted a number of us spokespersons for various parties in the Social Affairs Committee because they needed sharper tools to deal with the spread of infection. Friday night before Christmas it happened again. It is a fact that Sweden lacks the laws many other countries have or have quickly got in place to restrict or shut down activities where the spread of infection must be limited. One then needed, and one now needs, therefore, a temporary law that will apply for only a few months in the emergency situation. It is also clear that Sweden must be given a law that applies to civil crises. Legislation in the event of war is not enough. However, such a law requires a great deal of work and will take much longer to get in place. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates would like to underline our basic position that in crises they cooperate. That's what we did last spring, and then we did it over Christmas and New Year's. We note that cooperation has taken place quickly and without further delaying the already too late work of the government. The result of the spring was, among other things, that we provided the important subordination mechanism, which meant that the government must now submit to the Riksdag within a week at the latest the decisions it takes on possible closures with the support of this temporary pandemic law. This subjugation mechanism was now included in the proposal right from the start, although there has been a remarkable approach on the part of the government, in which the original proposal had written 30 days of subjugation, quickly pulled down to 14 days, following, among other things, the criticism of the parliamentary parties, and then quickly accepted 7 days after the Law Council's criticism. The initial starting of 30 days cannot be considered serious. The final result in terms of subordination now means that the government is given the necessary capacity to act at the same time as ensuring that democracy is maintained. When the proposal was presented this spring at a press conference, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren praised both the bill and the cooperation that had made the bill better. When you got what you needed to fight the spread of the disease, you had finally got the law in place. This Act entered into force on 18 April this year and ended with the end of June. Mr President, I would like to This temporary law was not used once. When we debated this issue on 17 December, the Minister for Social Affairs was not there. The government parties were represented by the committee's Vice-Chairman Kristina Nilsson, and I had four questions for her about the government's actions which she chose not to answer. I am pleased that today the Minister for Social Affairs is in place to answer these questions, which are in fact as topical as they are today. The first is why the law was never used. If the Minister was as pleased as it was at the press conference, I wonder why it was never used. I think and believe, Mr President, that one can have a great deal of understanding that a lot happened and went quickly that spring, and it is my view that everyone worked hard. But, nevertheless, the government governs the kingdom and has responsibilities therefore. Coming back after the summer without suggestions on how to face a possible second wave and increased spread of infection seems both incomprehensible and irresponsible. Many have criticized that, not least the Law Council. The government is being criticized for its slowness, and that is highly justified. My second question touched on and touched upon this very point. Why hadn't the government used the summer to prepare autumn? Had they bought the Swedish Public Health Agency's strategy or plan or future vision that there would not be a second wave? Had they not listened to what the WHO said and warned against? Why was it simply not better prepared on the part of the government? When the spread of infection escalated rapidly last autumn, a committee initiative on a pandemic law was put on the table of the Social Affairs Committee. It was a welcome initiative which we Moderates naturally supported. At the same time, the government explained that work had actually begun on a pandemic law. The committee initiative was presented on 15 October. As is customary – and since the government claimed to be working on such a law – we in the committee called the government to the committee so that we could normally start preparing the matter. It took a month and a half before the Secretary of State came to the committee. Everyone can think about what it meant for the preparation. My third question concerns this. Why did the government not come to committee when the committee repeatedly called it? Mr President, I would like to It is nevertheless welcome that the law is now in place to give the government the tools to fight the pandemic more accurately. But you can't say timing is this government thing. This was noted by the Corona Commission in its report on care for the elderly, and the Pandemic Act is the next sad example of this. Last spring, it apparently came into place at the wrong time, and I think everyone agrees that the situation is now so serious that the law should already be in place. Mr President, I would like to This new temporary law will be based on the ability of activities to avoid the spread of infection. It shall provide the affected activities with opportunities for predictability and predictability and be logical and reasonable for the population. That's the only way to build trust. We have gathered the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals together with the Swedish Democrats to force the government to ensure financial compensation to companies and businesses affected by this temporary law. I have heard several government representatives, including the Minister for Social Affairs this morning, pronounce themselves as if there were no major difference between what the government says and what our five parties say. Let me be very clear on this point: a promise to carry out an impact assessment does not lead to money for bleeding companies. It does, however, make a compensation that is actually paid. That is why my very last question is the same as on 17 December, when I did not get an answer. Can the Minister of Social Affairs today promise that affected companies and businesses will receive financial compensation and not just an impact assessment? Finally, is the law needed? Yes, the situation is very serious – I would say despair in many places. The verdict on the government will be harsh for not doing more at a much earlier stage. But there will be a later debate in this House. I support the committee's proposal.
i-259274b61a5880ad-103	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt whatsoever that we are in a very serious situation. More than 9 000 Swedes have died in covid-19. The situation of infection remains difficult, and health professionals are doing everything they can and more so. Some covid-19 sufferers still testify, months after the onset of illness, to serious health problems such as fatigue, muscle and joint pain, deterioration in quality of life and deterioration in physical and mental health. Just getting out of bed is described as a day's effort. Health care is again under great strain. Many have tried to do their part to flatten the curve. Consideration and great personal responsibility have been taken into account. You've taken your bike to work or you've walked. You've stayed at home for the slightest symptom. They've been working, going to school or studying at the university from home for months. Many have suffered from isolation and loneliness, from not having that wonderful visit or from being able to hug their grandchildren and from the lack of social context. They've been trying to hold on and hold on. But human suffering has not been limited to those who have died in covid-19 and left grieving and missing relatives behind, to the thousands who have fallen ill and so far recovered or to others who have suffered hardships and sacrifices. The effects of Pandemin in the world and in Sweden have been merciless. Companies have gone down. People have seen their life's work, their houses and homes and their potential savings come to nothing when their companies have not been able to cope with the loss of all revenue overnight while the costs have remained and been ticking on, day out and day in and week after week. Companies are on the brink of ruin when the demand for their goods or services is abrupt. Although, according to the business information company UC, there was not such a wave of bankruptcy last year as many of us feared, we still do not know how long the pandemic will last or how long companies will be able to overcome and endure further. Travel agencies, event companies, hotels and restaurants are all among the industries most affected by the restrictions announced so far. We now need to take measures that are strong enough to have an effect on the spread of the disease so that the situation is calmed down. We need to reduce the spread of infection, morbidity and inlays in the country's intensive care institutions. Mr President, I would like to Since May last year, the Center Party has demanded that the government acquire tools to combat the pandemic. The fact that Sweden is perceived by the outside world to have chosen a different path depends largely on the government's inaction. Already in the spring, when the spread of the disease first took hold in Swedish society, it became clear that current legislation could not provide the necessary tools to stop the spread of the disease. Sweden has not been able to limit shopping centres or public transport as other countries have been able to do. It is incomprehensible that the government has not acquired tools but tried to deal with the worst disaster Sweden has suffered in many years with alcohol law, law and good advice. The Center Party has, therefore, since last spring pushed the government to start work on a new, well-developed pandemic law that focuses on the possibilities of limiting the spread of infection and which clarifies the right to compensation for those who suffer from limited or completely closed opportunities to carry out their activities. Our principled approaches have always been that the law, based on the risk of transmission, should include the possibility of restrictions on and even the closure of activities that increase the spread of infection and of course the right to financial compensation for the activities affected by these restrictions. It was only after the Center Party presented a committee initiative in mid-October that the government four days later reacted with a press release and announced a pandemic law with its entry into force in summer 2021. On 17 December, a united parliament supported the Center Party's committee initiative with its entry into force in March. Given the very serious situation, the government is now changing with a view to entry into force this Sunday. We are pleased that we have managed to run the government ahead of us and are the first to welcome that the government is now putting in a higher gear in the work of getting legislation in place that gives it and the authorities more tools in the fight against infection. At the same time, we can only regret that the law did not come into force on 10 October. How many lives and how many companies could have been saved? We welcome the fact that the government has listened and made proposals for a law that can improve accuracy. The Center Party will vote in favour of the law, but we remain critical of a few different parts of it. As in the so-called Authorisation Act, on which Parliament began work during the Easter weekend last year, we see shortcomings and shortcomings in this legislative product in fundamentally important respects. The government claims, given the very broad scope of the law, that it cannot be done in special compensation schemes to regulate the question of whether and to what extent compensation should be paid to those who will be affected by regulations laid down in the law. Here the government, despite a united parliament, has missed the whole point. What Parliament is asking is not for the law to fully regulate the compensation systems. What Parliament asks is for the law to establish the right to compensation for affected activities. Let me remind you of the reality with which I began my speech. Thousands of businesses and entrepreneurs are in danger of ending up – and many have already ended up – between the chairs of existing compensation schemes. Let me also remind you that the aid schemes that have so far been introduced for the consequences of the pandemic, such as conversion aid, turnover support for individual traders, short-term and rental aid, have been added – albeit often late and only after long-standing and noisy demands from the Center Party, the Liberals, the Moderates and business and industry organisations – to alleviate the overall impact of the pandemic crisis. The aid has not been set up to meet an economic downturn caused by legal restrictions. The Center Party is not convinced that existing aid is necessarily suitable as compensation for restrictions under the Pandemic Act. The Center Party therefore considers it absolutely necessary to establish clearly the principle of compensation for the activities concerned. It is not only a moral obvious that far-reaching intervention by the general public in the economic situation of individuals should form the basis for compensation, but also a rule of law principle, which is expressed both in the regulation of property protection by the government and in the European Convention. Clear management that ensures the principle of right to compensation also contributes to the predictability and security of the activities concerned. It would also create a good incentive structure for all norm donors to develop as narrow and accurate limits as possible. In the light of this, as is clear from the joint proposal which the committee is now supporting, we want the government to come back with proposals to compensate the affected activities. There are many more problems with legislation, with constitutional insignia. It is a very far-reaching delegation of power from the Riksdag to the Government and to the authorities. There are periods of validity in regulations that should perhaps be shortened. There is no mention of constitutionally protected freedom of religion, including constitutional civil liberties. All of this has been described by the Center Party in our motion. Last but not least, I would like to say that we naturally support all the seven motions we have in our motions, but I now choose to support the committee's proposal.
i-259274b61a5880ad-119	Mr President, I would like to When, in January a year ago, I asked Minister Hallengren a written question about Sweden's preparedness if what is now known as covid-19 would spread to Sweden, I was worried, and the answer chastised. However, I would never have expected this: a year later, I would be standing here today, Mr President, to vote in favour of a temporary law that provides far-reaching scope for limiting congestion, distinguishing between risky and less risky activities and ultimately closing operations. I never thought this. It is clear, Mr President, that when this temporary law is used to prevent the spread of infection, it is protected by a great deal of interference in people's everyday lives, in the economy and in freedom. We must not lose sight of this. These are procedures we would never accept in normal times. But these are not normal times. Let's cut our hair over the trash can. We do not meet friends and relatives at all, or perhaps we choose to meet a few of them and celebrate Christmas outdoors in minus zero degrees. We follow funerals on the link. And we are doing this to protect someone's grandmother or big brother and to allow intensive care specialists to go home and have a place to breathe with their family. We Liberals therefore see, Mr President, that the new pandemic law is necessary, even though it would normally have been unthinkable. It's needed. But precisely because it is such an intervention, it is extremely important that it is temporary, that it is clear that restrictions must never go beyond what the infection requires in the near future and that bans or closures are submitted to Parliament within a week. So, father, so good. But there was a bit missing. On one point, we Liberals felt that the government's proposal was inadequate. It is a question of the state, Mr President, also having to take responsibility for this decision when it decides on reductions or closures. As a general rule, when using this Act or the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites, compensation must be paid for those activities that are directly affected financially. I am therefore very grateful to the committee for its support for this request, and I am today in favour of the committee's proposal. Of course, it must be possible to pay the rent or to pay for your children through this pandemic, even if you work in the private sector or are small businesses. This is not a business issue, Mr President, even if it had been enough. This is crucial for all of us. After all, it is from companies, from their VAT and from taxes that their employees pay the money that we need to pay the nurses' wages long-term and to pay the police, firemen and intensive care specialists who are working hard in this now. The whole circle is needed. The whole is demanding its parts, Mr President. Without the companies, the safety net and the entire welfare are falling. We have to be clear about that. So the law is temporary. A permanent law is needed, but it should not be produced under pressure of time, Mr President. The law is very clear that it must never be used more than is absolutely necessary from the point of view of transmission to save lives and health, right now and here. And the major decisions will be submitted to the Riksdag within a week. In addition, jobs and life's work and the safety net must be secured through compensation in the really big decisions. Under the four conditions, the Liberals vote in favour of this proposal, because we, as elected representatives, need to do everything we can to ensure that Sweden's citizens and healthcare services can get through this and we will eventually be able to put this miserable pandemic behind us.
i-259274b61a5880ad-127	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about the government's proposal for a temporary pandemic law – a covid-19 law. It's needed. Like large parts of Europe and the world, we in Sweden have also continued a wide spread of infection. We have weight and strained medical care. Although the vaccinations that have started offer hope, as many have mentioned, we know that covid ‐ 19 is present in society and will do so for a long time to come. More accurate measures are needed that can be maintained over time. Let me start with a little look back over the past year, which has rightly been described in different dark terms from here in the speaker's chair. On 1 February, the government adopted the regulation which classes covid-19 as a public and social disease and which was then confirmed by the Riksdag in June. The decision involved the activation of the powers arising from the Disease Control Act. There was early broad political agreement on the importance of taking further action. A close dialogue was held at weekly meetings between all party leaders in the Riksdag, which was good. The political consensus also meant a clarity vis-à-vis the Swedish people about the importance of just following advice, recommendations and restrictions. The broad political support for the Swedish strategy was an important part of the impact. The overall objective of the strategy is, and has been throughout the year, to reduce the spread of infection in order to protect people's lives, health and jobs. A large number of measures have been taken to reduce the spread of infection directly, but also to alleviate the impact of the pandemic on people and businesses. An important starting point for the strategy is, and has been, the expertise provided by government authorities. On this basis, our intention is to take the right action at the right time. Measures to limit the spread of infection have been comprehensive. They have been built on a combination and voluntary and prohibition. The most important has been the impact and results of the measures. Last year, for example, this meant restrictions on how people can gather under the law of order. It has been forbidden to visit various health care establishments and have been banned from serving alcohol after a certain period of time, and education in upper secondary school has been forced to move to a distance, among other things. At the same time, other measures are conditional on people's own responsibility and solidarity among themselves. Through extensive communication from government and authorities, people have been informed about the foundations of how covid-19 is spread and also received advice and recommendations on how to act – how to change your everyday life, simply. During the spring this worked well. We kept our distance, we washed our hands, and we stayed home for the slightest symptom. We saw that the short sick leave increased sharply, that many stayed at home when the withdrawal was abolished and that the rate of vabutt was record high. It should be interpreted as people taking responsibility. Changed behaviour led to fewer visits, fewer trips, fewer activities and fewer, if any, meetings between people. Those who could work from home, public transport for a long time gaped empty and activities were forced to limit accessibility. Swedish society largely closed down. So in the spring, like many other countries, we did not have to make regular decisions about closing down operations. However, the government felt that the situation could deteriorate and that we needed to be prepared to make such decisions. This was the reason why in April the government submitted a bill to the Riksdag on just such an authorisation, to be able to shut down operations. That law never needed to be used. Neither the government nor any other party saw last year that decisions on closures were justified. As far as I am concerned, it is not a party that thinks that we should be closing down any specific activity or industry this spring either, or that we should be shutting down any specific activity or industry today. Mr President, I would like to After a summer of low spread of infection, the government began work in August to develop the current pandemic law, or covid-19 law as it is called. I think that all the contributions to the debate so far bear witness to the difficulty of then making the right balance and to the different interests that we will have that stand against each other. However, with this law, the government, municipalities and state administrative authorities will have better opportunities to decide on more accurate rules that are adapted to what different activities look like and function. This is a framework law that temporarily empowers the government to decide on more binding disease protection measures than is possible today. These are, in the first place, measures that prevent the spread of infection, but without imposing unnecessary restrictions on things that can be carried out in a safe manner. In concrete terms, this may involve limiting the number of visitors, regulating opening hours or other necessary measures to prevent congestion. It will also be possible for the government or the authorities to decide on disease control rules in activities that are not currently subject to binding rules: party rooms, public transport, service facilities such as barbershops, gyms, sports facilities, libraries, campsites and shopping centres. The government will also be able to impose restrictions on premises and facilities rented for private gatherings. These can include reception rooms rented on a commercial basis, shared premises in rental and tenant-ownership properties, association premises and premises belonging to universities, colleges and student unions. The government is also given increased opportunities to limit people's use of public space and the size of communities that can gather in public places. The government or a municipality should also be able to impose a ban on staying in a specified place. These could be bathing areas, urban parks or the like. It may not seem the most topical at the beginning of January, but it does testify that this is legislation that needs to focus on a longer period of time. The Government will develop proposals for an adjusted regulation for activities that are met by general gatherings and public events. It is a question of gradually developing differentiated and more adapted rules based on the risk of contamination in different activities. The government for e proposes that the county boards should be given supervisory responsibility. If the rules are not complied with, the county administrative boards may decide on injunctions against activities in the form of periodic penalty payments or, ultimately, closure. The private person who violates regulations restricting access to public places can also be sentenced to money fines. Mr President, I would like to The Pandemic Act, like the legislation of the spring, also allows for the closure of activities. The government is preparing the shutdown regulation in order to ultimately be able to be used if necessary, and I emphasise in the last analysis. This is not legislation that aims to close down activities, but rather to limit them and introduce measures that allow us to operate for longer, but in a way that does not contribute to congestion and increased risk of transmission of infection. However, if there is a need for closure and the Government decides to shut down such activities, the decision shall be submitted to the Riksdag within a week. It has been described in some speeches how the government has changed perspective or changed attitude on the question of how quickly such a decision should be submitted to the Riksdag. I would very much like to remind you that the first memo sent out for referral was the memo prepared by the Government Office. Then we looked at the referral points. The proposal submitted by the government to the Legislative Council was for two weeks. However, we listened to the views of both the Swedish Law Council and the parliamentary parties and assured us and felt confident that it is possible, albeit strenuously, to come back to Parliament for decision within a week. The Committee on Social Affairs has, and has had, a particularly important role throughout the pandemic. We've met many times, to put it to the bottom. I would also like to take this opportunity to say in this speaker's chair that cooperation in the Committee on Finance has been so important. Many and large support measures have been adopted, and this has been done quickly and effectively. These include turnover support, conversion aid, short-term lay-offs, increased state responsibility for sickness pay and changes in unemployment benefit, so that more are covered by a – cashier, in 13 additional amending budgets and an amount exceeding SEK 250 billion so far. Whether it is a matter of suffering from the direct pandemic or of anti-contagion measures taken, it has been important for the government and the cooperation parties, the Center Party and the Liberals to put forward proposals in the budget that mitigate the negative consequences. In the same way, we must continue to work. The issue of financial compensation for the regulations announced under the Pandemic Act will be addressed in the context of the development of any regulations. The Government returns to the Riksdag with proposals for compensation within the framework of the procedures applicable to the budget process, in order not to end up in lengthy legal proceedings when we enter remuneration issues into a framework law, but that we deal with it in a way that of course guarantees compensation for those affected. In the case of suspension regulations, which are to be submitted to the Riksdag within a week, the Government shall also report, as it says, an assessment of the financial consequences of the regulations on companies, employees or other actors. This wording has been added in dialogue with the Christian Democrats in particular. It reflects well that the Government intends to make an assessment of the financial consequences of restrictions and possible closures and return to the Riksdag in order to take the necessary measures to mitigate the effects. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Pandemic Act can now be adopted in its entirety. Following the Riksdag's decision today, regulations will be able to be decided and the authorities will be able to issue regulations. At the same time as vaccinations are underway, this will make it easier for all of us to endure over time.
i-259274b61a5880ad-151	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his speech. In my speech I had a number of questions that I wished the Minister for Social Affairs to answer. I hope the Minister of Social Affairs now does. Although all parties are behind this law because the situation forces us to do so, most parties agree that it is under all criticism that the government did not ensure that the team support came into place in the autumn when the second wave struck. The government's slowness means that Parliament will once again have to deal with the legislation in a very forced process. The government's way of working jeopardises both the quality and legitimacy of rules that should have been in place a long time ago. They have been able to avoid this through better anticipation and clearer constitutional readiness. Of course, people's lives are by far the most important and serious in this. But I would also like to share with the Minister for Social Affairs my contacts with health professionals who are suffering. I read, "Yes, people work extra all the time." Some people sometimes get to do double shifts. Almost no one is regular but comes and runs some passports that they have been forced to to do, and then work in their regular department. Some have agreed to drive a few weeks in the department because someone from their business has to. Then there are far too few staff, so the work is not allowed, so we do not get breaks for some days. .....................................................
i-259274b61a5880ad-157	Mr President, I would like to I think Camilla Waltersson Grönvall will have to repeat her questions. I listened, of course, to the speech, but I did not take note of all the questions that were asked. However, I understood the question of why the Authorisation Act was not used, and I will use my reply time to answer it. The law had a purpose: to enable shutdown. It was about emergency shutdowns, basically during the day or possibly at some day's notice. There was never any reason to do so because we had the effect of other measures. Nor did anyone propose to shut down any activity. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall may be able to use her reply to tell us which business we should have used the Authorisation Act to shut down – because that was the purpose of the law. The answer to why we did not prolong the law was that we felt that it was not satisfactory. The main aim is not to shut down at some day's notice, but we need the much broader legislation that the temporary covid-19 law is. When the law is in place and you see what it looks like, you can imagine that we should have been able to pick it up in a week. However, it is a difficult and complex job, and many have witnessed in their speeches how it restricts people's freedom and mobility, the ability of companies to carry out activities, people's income opportunities and so on. Anyone who wanted to use the authorisation law this spring must have wanted to shut down one activity, because something else could not be used. It also did not include the possibility of supervision and sanctions, as the pandemic legislation does positively. On 1 December, the Committee received a review by the Secretary of State of the envisaged pandemic legislation. It could have come much earlier; I understand that the opposition wanted it. A work has been going on this autumn to develop complex legislation, but since 1 December there has been an opportunity to both get involved in the direct writings and know how the government thinks about the Pandemic Act.
i-259274b61a5880ad-164	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister of Social Affairs is trying to place responsibility on others. If she cannot pass on responsibility to municipalities and regions, she will instead put it on the political parties. I find this most unfortunate. If it is something that all parties in the Riksdag have done, it is to act quickly and contribute constructively to this law coming into place. However, it is beyond doubt that this law should have been in place a long time ago. It doesn't matter what arguments the Minister of Social Affairs is hiding behind. It is a fact that it should have been in place a long time ago and that the government has acted late. I advise the Minister for Social Affairs to re-read what the Law Council and many other referrals write. It's pretty tough criticism, and that criticism is justified. A major point in the report is that there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament that is pressing for financial compensation. As I said in my speech, there is an enormous difference between saying that an impact assessment should be carried out for a bleeding company and having a financial compensation paid for survival. Apart from answering why financial compensation has not been guaranteed, I would like the Minister of Social Affairs to tell all entrepreneurs and other people who are listening to this debate what this will look like. Can they feel confident that the government really will ensure that they receive financial compensation if they are affected?
i-259274b61a5880ad-168	Mr President, I would like to I did not understand what activity Camilla Waltersson Grönvall wanted to close in the spring and for which the Authorisation Act would have been used. We'll have to take it another time. As far as financial compensation is concerned, I used part of my speech to describe how important it is for us to be able to compensate for the losses that arise and the consequences that result. But entering it into a framework law is the wrong way to act. We run the risk of having lengthy legal proceedings instead of a discussion that reasonably takes place through a budget bill to Parliament, which, like the other 250 billion in compensation that has been paid to both individuals and companies during the past year, will be able to compensate. Should those affected by possible closure, which is not a first priority but which may happen, be covered by the compensation already in force? What additional compensation should be given specifically to these operators and companies? We don't know what it's gonna look like. However, the Government will return to the Riksdag if it becomes necessary to take measures in the form of closures affecting individuals and companies. I can reassure Camilla Grönvall and everyone else that we will come back to these issues, as we have done over the past year.
i-259274b61a5880ad-172	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his speech. The right action at the right time is a wise mantra, but today it is not the right action at the right time. We would have needed the law earlier, as the committee has stated. My first question to the Minister for Social Affairs is therefore: when did the work on a pandemic law begin in the Government Office? I shall move on to my second question. I was pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs said in his speech that financial compensation must be guaranteed. That is exactly what we need to tell those who are affected by an action. I am pleased with the move the government made in the bill, because now it is clear in a clearer way that financial compensation is something the government discusses and comes with an account of. It is also a question of saying that the main rule is that financial compensation should be paid, which is an important passus. Today, the parliamentary majority will decide that it should be the general rule, and I note that the Minister for Social Affairs also used the word guarantee. How does the government intend to proceed next time with financial compensation so that the measure and financial measure are linked? Will we see this at the same time? I assume it will be that way in the future.
i-259274b61a5880ad-178	Mr President, I would like to At the end of August, we started work on developing pandemic legislation. We have worked well with not least the Christian Democrats, and I have appreciated the constructive proposals made by the Christian Democrats for compensation. I am perhaps a little disappointed that there are suggestions for a letter that is written literally and then still feels obliged to make a reservation. It feels a bit like for the sake of it, to be honest. I think we have shown over the past year that we are taking measures – costly measures, far-reaching measures. It is general and very generous aid amounting to 250 billion. I have been using that figure for so long that it certainly needs to be revised up, and this will be done. I think it has been explained on a number of occasions: if we in the legislation – in the Pandemic Act, which is a framework law – write in that compensation should be given, it risks becoming a budget product rather than a pandemic law product managed by the Committee on Social Affairs, and it also risks leading to lengthy legal proceedings. If, according to the law, you have received the compensation to which you are entitled, should you not be entitled to support already granted? How are they to be counted off? Is it reasonable to replace crown for crown? No party, nor the parties that made an announcement, talks about how it should be replaced. In each individual situation, we have tried to achieve measures that are going to hit quite broad, because the more direct we have support, the harder it will be to get them approved when it comes to European competition law and other things. So it is not just a question of whether we want to replace, but we should find a smart way to do it. It is clear that there are some who may not present the correct data. How are we to ensure that we have control over taxpayers' money, which is to be paid out, so that it is targeted as correctly as possible, and how are we to find the best possible broad support that really reaches those affected?
i-259274b61a5880ad-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of Social Affairs. If the work started at the end of August, it is surprising that it has taken so long for the government to come to the committee and tell us about the work. I fully understand that this is an advanced piece of legislation. It certainly is, but we have advanced products in every department right now. We have to get them out quickly, because the pandemic demands it. It was a very long start for the government to come to the committee to tell about the law. It is not Parliament that is slow, it is obviously the government. As far as the economy is concerned, it was not possible to move the government further than to submit a financial report. We have left the question of entering it in the text of the law itself, because we know that there are difficulties, but in the bill you can be very much clearer, just as the government has been. This is what the announcement is about, to say clearly that the main rule is that if you suffer from a severe restriction, you get financial compensation. With regard to how we have always been clear that this can be done by means of an additional amending budget, and this needs to be adapted to the measure and the situation. The law allows accurate measures to be taken so that the compensation can be adjusted. This is the principle, the general rule, which needs to be reflected in the government proposal. That's where we can't move the government, but I'm happy about the steps we've taken. Now the Riksdag is taking the second step, to be clear about it. I assume that when the government returns and needs to use the law, we will see action and compensation at the same time, because I believe that compliance with the measures will increase. Then you do not find the loopholes to why you need to go shopping yourself to support a business owner, but then there is a support that goes to the one who needs to shut down or limit. Thus, you can be very safe in your adherence.
i-259274b61a5880ad-187	Mr President, I would like to I cannot say this in many other ways: companies should receive support in the event of closure, and we intend to come back in connection with it. As regards the aid to be given and the guarantee of aid, I have not actually heard a party say exactly whether it is compensation for loss of revenue, for the costs incurred or for all the losses suffered. These are the words that are hard to describe, for it is difficult to replace fully. I don't think any country has made it. There are, of course, activities that have so far been severely affected, and we have always done our utmost to meet and compensate individuals as well as companies, organisations and associations affected by the direct consequences of the pandemic or the political decisions that we are forced to take. We have no intention of doing so otherwise, but we have not wanted to include it in the legislation itself. We do not believe that this is beneficial, but it can lead to lengthy legal proceedings. We believe that this should be done through budget proposals in the form of supplementary amending budgets to Parliament. That is how we intend to deal with this.
i-259274b61a5880ad-190	Mr President, the Council of State. Thanks for making a very good team anyway! We may think so, even though we have our objections. However, we would have been happy if it had come in the autumn. It would have been easier then, with the situation we are in right now. I really have two questions. In the bill, the government proposes that regulations be passed on the prohibition of gathering in a company, let's say a park like Hagaparken, where you can sit with your family and friends. It is stated in the bill that such regulations should not imply a prohibition that includes company belonging to the same household. This means that someone has to go around the park and check and investigate who is related and what the connections look like. I wonder how this is going to happen. We find it very difficult to see it in front of us – whether it should be park guards or someone else who should look at this or how it is supposed to be. We believe that this is a huge violation of privacy. My second question is about the children's perspective and how to work with it. A lot of children who may get hurt in their homes will have a harder time with that kind of shutdown. This applies to park games – the bathing houses are already closed here in Stockholm and in the rest of the country. How should you monitor the children's perspective? Many children today live in families that are dysfunctional, and they can simply get locked up there if the legislation becomes too restrictive.
i-259274b61a5880ad-193	Mr President, I would like to The law is a framework law, so it does not answer all the questions that Karin Rågsjö and perhaps many others here ask themselves. If the government decides on a regulation, it will become clearer and even clearer, of course, if and when there are regulations. I think you can take your starting point in the Restaurant Act to understand the idea. The Swedish Parliament has given the government the opportunity to issue regulations that say that measures should be taken and followed and that the municipalities should exercise supervision, but it is the Swedish Public Health Agency that has talked about how far it should be between tables, whether there can be table service and how many can sit in each company. In the same way it will be in these cases – we will see this made clear. I think Karin Rågsjö really puts her finger on how difficult this is. One can have a sweeping discussion about us taking stronger action, shutting down, limiting, following up, having police officers monitoring and so on, but we have rather little international coverage of how other countries act, how the population is doing and how to replace. We know pretty little about it. We have, I think, a little different notions about this, but of course this is very difficult. We have to be very careful. There are very clear reasons why children's and young people's sports have been the exception, as Karin Rågsjö describes. There is a connection to this that is why we have not shut down preschools and schools and do not want to do so. There is an opportunity to have some distance and remote education even in secondary school, because we see that this need will exist as the spread of infection goes down in the ages. But we understand and see the risk to mental health, the condition and vulnerability of children and young people, women and others. We really need to parry this and spend more time discussing when the pandemic is this long.
i-259274b61a5880ad-197	Mr President, the Council of State. We still think §12 is very flukey. When drafting legislation, what comes in different regulations must be very clear about how to proceed. We can read it straight up and down, and then it can actually look like this: You can sit in, say, Haga Park with ten people, four of whom are family and four are friends and two are random people. Then the question is, who should check this and keep track of it? I think it must be very clear when drafting legislation. Then I think it is very good to, just as the Government does, highlight the children's perspective. Sometimes it may sound like we have not had any restrictions here in Sweden. I think we can hear this from other comrades in the Committee on Social Affairs, but we have had a lot of restrictions here this spring. I hope that the spread of infection will finally decrease, and when you move on now you have to have an eye on children and young people. They are the ones who might get hurt when you shut down, and I think you have to have that stake now that, for example, all the activities in Stockholm have been shut down. I live, just like Dag Larsson, in Stockholm. The baths are closed, the museums are closed and most of it is closed. The children are then very much referred to their families. If this continues for a very long period, and if schools and preschools were to close down, there would have to be a very careful follow-up of the situation of children and young people. Research that has been done in Europe, where there have been constant shutdowns – it has opened up and shut down – shows that children have gone badly in their home environments. I am therefore pleased that the Government and the Government are still thinking about this very thing.
i-259274b61a5880ad-203	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely about the balance between taking the measures that we really believe and think have an effect. We should not take action for the sake of the matter. Then we know that this is about congestion, which in turn is a risk of transmission. We also know that it is in private life, in the home environment and in the workplace that there is the greatest risk of infection. We may think what we want about public transport, shopping centres and shops. But we know that it is the home, the working environment and some other contexts that are at stake. We can take this with parks that are full of people and where you sit very tight. It is an obvious risk environment. We have not issued regulations or regulations exactly as to what this should look like. Of course we need to think about it and, of course, be much more precise. The framework law does not intend to provide all these answers. But it points out which contexts and which environments this could be about. It is also very important to say that it is clear that the possibility of company with someone cannot be banned. Moreover, if you are in the same household, you already have close physical contact. The question of how far you go, and how sharp these measures need to be, remains to be answered according to how the disease situation changes when it comes to it.
i-259274b61a5880ad-206	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his speech. A theme through the pandemic has been that we should get through it together. That is absolutely correct. The only question is why, together with the government, it seems to mean that it ceases to apply to the opportunities and conditions of the business community to cope with the crisis. Is it not, in fact, quite natural and self-evident that, if, through laws and regulations, the general system imposes restrictions for good reason which mean that activities can no longer be carried on, then they are compensated financially for, for example, the loss of revenue? If the hairdressers are not allowed to have the salons open overnight, and if overnight restaurants cannot sell and serve food and drink, they still stand with fixed costs for staff and renting premises over time. The problem with the attitude of the Government and the Government is that it is very limited. It is said here that it intends to return to Parliament with regard to regulations. However, with the law allowing such a far-reaching regulatory power first from the Riksdag to the Government and then on to the authorities, it means that these authorities have very far-reaching opportunities to communicate restrictions on the number of participants and transparency so that these restrictions will in practice act as a trade ban. We have seen several examples of this in the past year. It is therefore not enough simply to think of compensation precisely because of the regulations that the government may issue and submit to the Riksdag, but it simply needs a broader compensation. I must also ask the Minister for Social Affairs how it is that the government did not come back with a pandemic law when the Act of Authorisation came. Was the Minister of Social Affairs somehow prevented from starting such work?
i-259274b61a5880ad-210	Mr President, I would like to I may nevertheless be a little surprised that Linda Modig from the Center Party is not also focusing on all the extra amending budgets that our parties have together produced. They have not at all been about compensating for a shutdown, but with them we have constantly tried to parry the extremely tough consequences that we see in society regardless of political decisions. It is about the direct effects and damage of the pandemic when you lose competitiveness, when borders were closed and so on. We intend to continue our budgetary cooperation and also to present further amending budgets. Of course, we will ensure that you receive support if you are forced to close down a business. But during the process we have tried to explain that it is not a good order to enter it into a framework law. This means that there can be lengthy legal proceedings rather than presenting draft budgets to Parliament. Yeah, you're supposed to get support. However, the precise nature of this aid must be determined by the nature of the activities affected, by the measure and the way in which it is met by the measures already decided and the aid in place. It is clear that companies should be able to receive support in the event of closure. But exactly what it will look like, we need to come back to each individual case. I want to be clear about saying that I do not think it would only be about when and if we decide on a shutdown. There will be far more support that we need to review in order to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. I said earlier that it has so far been about SEK 250 billion. It's not a little money. It is not about holding back, it is about using the surpluses that we have built up over the years. We will continue to do so in the wisest and best way together.
i-259274b61a5880ad-215	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for this. Of course, we in the Center Party are proud that we have taken responsibility for the 13 additional amending budgets. But that's not the point. This money was not intended to support companies because of legal constraints. That's another thing. We must support business when we see the strong economic downturn. And it has been done to some extent, although in many cases it has been too late. As has been said here before, it is not a question of including a provision in the law. We understand that it could have created difficulties. What is at issue here is clear statements of pre-employment. Everyone knows how important it is in Swedish law with clear pre-work statements. That is where the proposal leaves some other things to be desired. It is important to remember that closures will be submitted to the Riksdag. But the great space that is now being removed from Parliament is what will be delegated down to authorities. It can be delegated down to the regional level, local level, etc. These regulations, in turn, can be so powerful that they will not be able to operate. Thus, even with this reasoning, it is clear that it is inadequate. This position is simply not enough. I also note that, in its opinion on the Temporary Authorisation Act, the Law Council notes that, even after the expiry of this Act, there was a need to have an effective regulatory framework in force as soon as possible in order to be prepared to deal with any increased spread of infection during the autumn. Thus, the Law Council has already stated this. It agrees with the Constitutional Committee that there is a need for urgent preparations and that this can be avoided precisely through good anticipation and good preparedness. I think that's important to take with you. We could have used the time better, we could have a more elaborate proposal and we would not have had to worry and have criticism about the things I have presented today.
i-259274b61a5880ad-220	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that we will soon have this pandemic law in place, even if it does not solve all our problems. The law itself then demands that we draw up regulations, that we really can be specific and that we can target various activities. There is still considerable and very difficult work to be done, and there are difficult balances to be struck. That is my only answer to the fact that it has taken time to produce this legislation. It has been very difficult. Once it is in place, it is not so difficult to imagine that you could have written like this. But to actually know how we could construct this to achieve the effect of countering congestion to ensure that we reduce the risk of infection has not been easy. It is a very honest answer that this has not been easy. But it's been important. We believe that we have found a construction through this framework law with regulations and the possibility of allowing authorities to issue regulations. It should be seen as that in many ways it will be the Public Health Agency, certainly in dialogue with others. It is the county administrative boards that have the opportunity to ensure that a regional adjustment can be made based on how the infection situation hopefully gradually improves but perhaps not the same across the country. The County Administrative Board in Dalarna is the county administrative board that will gather this together. It is clear that we also need to ensure that we have a knowledge of how this legislation is used. I know that the Finance Minister and the economic-political spokespersons of our budgetary partners are working very hard to find ways of ensuring that we continuously mitigate the effects of this pandemic. If we get to a situation – I hope not – with closures, it is clear that we will have to deal with it in a very specific way. However, given that there is already support on the ground that may need to be supplemented, how can this be done in a way that is also able to cope with competition rules on the part of the EU? Otherwise, the risk is that it may take a very long time. You may pass these rules, but if it is too long a time of, for example, trial in the EU, the risk is that you will have to wait for your support that needs to come quite immediately.
i-259274b61a5880ad-224	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry, Minister Hallengren I really listened carefully to the line shifts, but I still don't understand the government's position on the issue of compensation. This is, of course, a simple writing in the bill, not about any advanced designs or replacement models. It is not even a question of getting the wording into the text of the law itself, but of mentioning them in the preparatory work. Actually, I'd say it comes down to two small words. That is all this is about, namely the words When the bill came to us in the Riksdag, it was designed so that the government should return if a decision is expected to have major consequences – i.e. if you think that compensation is needed. As I see it, the two words do the whole difference. They are leading us into a situation where people wake up Monday morning, either as entrepreneurs or as employees of a company, and do not really know what their personal economy, their daily lives or their whole life's work will look like in a week's time. It can be swept away with a few days' notice. In all these impact assessments, does Minister Hallengren not see the consequences of uncertain wordings in such a uncertain time as we have all been forced into?
i-259274b61a5880ad-227	Mr President, I would like to It's an uncertain time. There are very many who can neither fall asleep in the evening nor wake up after a good night's sleep and know what life will look like. How will my company manage? What will demand look like? How will I handle my employees? For this very reason, our parties have, among other things, tabled proposals for 13 additional amending budgets, and there will be more additional amending budgets. 250 billion is the bill only for 2020; much more will be done. When it comes to the question of whether we should give compensation, one might think that it is very easy to write the word. I can agree with Lina Nordquist on that. On the other hand, what is to be replaced? Is that every lost crown? Should we ensure that the turnover the company had the year before is maintained by giving the corresponding compensation? Should we exclude all the aid already in place today and provide compensation for excess payments? It is quite complicated, and I believe that we need to deal with this in a specific budget decision on a case-by-case basis. It's not just about shutdowns. I think it is very clear that we must, of course, link this to some kind of support, but we cannot hold back any possible closure until we feel that we know exactly how to replace each crown. I mean it's not possible. Instead, we need to make decisions, and we need to do our utmost to constantly mitigate the consequences for businesses and entrepreneurs as well as for employees, municipalities and regions – all who suffer both the direct damage of the pandemic and the measures we are forced to take. But exactly what will be compensated Lina Nordquist will be happy to develop in her next line.
i-259274b61a5880ad-230	Mr President, I would like to Now, however, there was a lot of clutter and hassle – a complicating of how and exactly how this should be designed. It'll be a little tripping, if the government excuses, and I still don't understand. This is simply a matter of ensuring that the main rule is that you receive compensation if you suffer a great deal from these decisions, that is, not from the pandemic as such, but from the state's intervention in one's freedom. However, I am not going to bury myself further in it, but I am going to say instead this: if the starting point is, however, to receive compensation when there is a major impact on one's private finances, on entrepreneurs and others with businesses, is it not a little strange that the government parties cannot support the committee's additions? It's separate from all the legal texts, all of them how, and all the knuckles and trippies. Instead, the government parties choose to vote against the committee's position on the grounds that they agree. I do not understand the attitude of the government parties on this issue.
i-259274b61a5880ad-232	Mr President, I would like to Precisely how one views different reservations is in fact a question for the parliamentary parties to discuss among themselves. You have to take some lines on each other when it comes to that. However, it is not quite usual to propose a committee initiative on things that are already in force, although it is something that has become increasingly common to show that an initiative is being taken. If you then think it is something that is already being worked on, you think it is to break open doors; I thought I heard Dag Larsson say it in his opening speech. I would like to return to the fact that it is not as simple as saying that we should give compensation. What is to be replaced? It is a very natural issue that actually deserves a much longer description, text or background. You can't believe you can only write a sentence. Sometimes Lina Nordquist mentions personal finances, and sometimes it is companies. Is it revenue forgone? Is that the turnover step? What are we going to pay for? People are affected, and they will receive support – yes. But what exactly is that supposed to look like? What should be compensated and to what extent? Is it to be compensated 100%, 90% or 70%? These are issues with which we must sit down, and we do so appropriately in the form of a budget proposal to Parliament. Additional amending budgets will be added. I am sure that I will use the floor here when I say that there will certainly be support if we do shutdowns. But what does the support look like? What is the extent of this? How big is it? I think these are questions you would really like answers on a long way in advance to feel that optimal security that Lina Nordquist is talking about, but my assessment is that it is not possible to give such direct answers. We can say that we will compensate and that we will ensure that we do so in the same way as we have done so far, namely with generous support. As far as possible, it will be general aid, and if general aid is not enough, we must see what we find for the right to meet. I also think that we need to have great respect for all those who have already been hit very hard. Of course, they must also feel that we are also seeing them in the future.
