i-edb63d65553d2dcf-3	Madam President, I would like Elin Segerlind has asked me whether I intend to take new initiatives to create social solutions that will enable people to achieve low and equitable emissions and whether I intend to initiate measures, and if so, which, will reduce economic inequality and the redistribution of resources that we are seeing today further to the climate crisis. Tony Haddou has asked me whether I intend to take new initiatives, and, if so, what, in order to achieve greater economic redistribution and reduce emissions and whether I will take account of the uneven distribution of consumption emissions and find fair solutions to reduce the large emissions of the rich. Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to give the Environmental Objectives Committee an additional mandate to take into account that emissions from consumption are unequally distributed and to find fair solutions to deal with the disproportionately large emissions of the rich. As the questions relate to the same area, I choose to answer them together. Madam President, I would like Swedish consumption leads to extensive emissions both in Sweden and in other countries. According to Statistics Finland's and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's statistics, total consumption causes one from households, public sector and construction about eight tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions per person per year. If we are to keep warming below 1.5 degrees, we need to get below one tonne per person per year at global level by 2050. The government therefore shares the members' view that we need to reduce emissions resulting from consumption in Sweden significantly and that those who emit the most also need to pay for the largest emission reductions. The Government has commissioned the Environmental Objectives Committee to propose a comprehensive strategy to reduce the climate impact from consumption. The mission includes preparing targets for consumption emissions and proposing instruments and measures. The report by Oxfam and the Stockholm Environment Institute, which the interpellants mention, emphasises that it is high income earners who account for the large part of the consumption emissions. In the Environmental Objectives Committee's additional directive on consumption-based emissions, it is specified that the preparation should take into account differences in climate impacts from different types of consumption and distribution policy consequences. I therefore assume that the problem raised by the report will be important in the preparation work. It goes without saying that an ambitious climate policy goes hand in hand with social security, equality and justice. The overall policy will contribute to reducing emissions. And the overall policy will smooth out the growing economic divides. Economic equality needs to be increased. The Government intends to implement a comprehensive tax reform that will, among other things, increase employment and the number of hours worked with reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, contribute to the achievement of climate and environmental objectives, and smooth out today's growing economic gaps. The Government intends to continue to pursue an inclusive climate policy that takes into account the different conditions that exist within different income groups and is based on legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-12	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The starting point for this debate is the report made by Oxfam together with the Stockholm Environment Institute, which shows the unequal distribution of climate space in Sweden. In their report they note that the half of the population with the lowest income emits 4 tonnes of CO2 per person per year and the richest part 43 tonnes. There's a huge difference. It is by no means possible to oppose the Minister's answer to the question of what the government intends to do about it. Of course, it is good that the government wants an ambitious climate policy that goes hand in hand with social security, gender equality and justice. The problem is simply that that is not what we see in practice. In Sweden inequality is increasing. The rich are drawing away, while the proportion of poor and low-income earners is getting bigger. Uncertainty becomes more evident. The labour market with precarious employment is an important part of this, but also public services such as health care, school and care, where access varies depending on where you live and who you are. Sweden is not a country based on a desire to create a fair distribution of anything at all, and that is not really so strange. For decades, yes, throughout my lifetime, uncontrolled capitalism has been allowed to ravage freely. It has broken our society both socially and ecologically. Instead of opting for a different path, we are continuing with further tax cuts for those who do not need it and with companies that are allowed to buy up and profit from our common welfare, while at the same time the staff who are working to keep it going should be as easy to terminate as a newspaper subscription. This goes hand in hand. Why do we have a broken climate? Well, this is due, among other things, to the short-term consumption of luxury and the obscene accumulation of resources of a few over the long-term needs of many. We cannot save the climate and our living environment by continuing along the line. We have to change our ways. Overall, Europe as a whole is above the limit of per capita emissions to achieve the 1.5-degree target. This also applies to Sweden, where all income groups are above the limit. This means that we as a nation need to reduce our emissions, but not that we all need to do so as much. Responsibilities vary. The availability of money and the impact on the climate are now intimately interlinked. We do not solve the climate crisis by lowering more people in poverty. We are already seeing that as the proportion of poor people increases, the rich part takes only an even larger part of the cake. A small part takes a large share, not only of the economic space but also of the climate space. It is untenable and unfair. What we need is a redistribution of resources together with climate-smart societal solutions that give people access to a low-emission life. A real transition that really gets emissions down will not be easy, and for some it will mean a big lifestyle change. Is the government brave enough to implement real measures that can reverse developments, or will it put the imagined right of the rich before our common chance of survival?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-24	Madam President, I would like As my colleague Elin Segerlind mentioned, our interpellations are based on the important report produced by Oxfam and the Stockholm Environment Institute. It points to large differences in the impact on the climate between people with a lot of money and people with a smaller wallet. In the past, we have discussed injustices and emissions a lot from a north-south perspective, that is, globally in the world, where we know that the industrialised world has taken up too much emission space at the expense of the poor world. Now we see that similar injustice exists also within the EU countries and within our own country. Just as Elin Segerlind mentioned, the richest percentage in Sweden emits as much as 43 tons per year while the poorest tenth emits about 4 tons per year. According to the report, most Swedes have been relatively good at reducing their emissions since 1990. But the richest minority has not reduced their emissions, but many have actually increased their emissions. It's totally untenable. In my interpellation, I raised these issues. I wonder, among other things, whether the Minister is prepared to give the Environment Target Committee an additional assignment. The preparation shall propose measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of consumption. With an additional assignment, we could also bring in the inequality of emissions. The Minister says that this is already taken care of in the Environmental Objectives Committee's additional assignments and that the preparation should look at precisely the distribution policy implications. However, the allocation policy and the inequality of greenhouse gas emissions do not have much place in the additional mandate. It is mostly mentioned in passing on two occasions. At the same time, it also mentions the importance of strengthening Sweden's industry, exports and competitiveness. This is not what I am looking for, but I believe that the Environmental Objectives Committee should get a clear mandate that takes account of reports such as Oxfams and SEI that point to precisely inequality in greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I think the Minister should do it again and do it right. Equality is important in all areas, including climate policy – not only because we want those who emit the most also to take the greatest responsibility, but because equality is most effective. If I know that the neighbour has to make sacrifices in his daily life in order to reduce his emissions, I will do the same. If we have a society that is connected and where everyone takes joint responsibility, emissions will decrease much more than they have done so far. That is why equality is important.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-33	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. While the Corona crisis is ongoing, the world and Sweden have been in a climate crisis for a long time. I think we agree with the Government that if we do not reduce our emissions, large parts of the world can become uninhabitable and the consequences, which we already see a lot of today, can be devastating to say the least. It is also good that the Government shares our view that we need to significantly reduce the emissions resulting from consumption in Sweden and that those who emit the most also need to account for the largest emission reductions. On the other hand, I doubt whether we agree on how we use our common resources to redeploy. It is an absolutely crucial issue for what society we want and what future we are facing. For 30 years we have had tax cuts in Sweden that have benefited the richest. It is about as long as the climate threat has been seriously felt. Emissions have continued to grow, and those with the most money contribute most to this development – thus the more money, the greater emissions. It is about the target group that has had tax cuts for three decades, the richest. It is above all where money and capital are concentrated over time. It is also the target group that withdraws from a lifestyle that renounces all responsibility for climate change. Is that really how we use resources in society? Is this really compatible with the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee, which in your answer you still think is important work forward? It is no coincidence that the climate and economic inequality have gone downhill at the same time, because it is about political decisions. Instead of taking greater responsibility, in the midst of a global pandemic, the government has continued with even more tax cuts. We believe that the transition must have a clear justice perspective. Not only can it be the responsibility of climate policy, but it also needs a progressive shift in economic policy. That is the foundation and essence of achieving climate justice and answering the question of destiny of our time. We must invest in both conversion and reduction of gaps and strengthening prosperity. The overall task must be to pursue a policy that closes the economic divides. To achieve this, tax cuts for the rich must be set aside so that a greater proportion of our resources go to joint investment rather than favouring the luxury consumption of high-income earners. We see an inequality that is growing and at risk of getting stuck in Sweden. In its reply, the Government mentions that the Government wants to smooth out today's growing economic divides. In what way? So far, you have increased the economic gap. My question was about what new initiatives you are prepared to take, but there is nothing concrete in the answer here. The reason for this is that increasing gaps make it more difficult to tackle the climate crisis. It is not possible to tackle the climate crisis if we do not tackle inequality. The transition must be fair. Our call to the Minister for Environment and Climate Change is to make the transition fair. That is why we have requested this debate with the Minister. We know that Swedes live unsustainablely and that everyone's emissions must be reduced, but the inequality in emissions is huge between income groups. Then you cannot lower taxes for the richest with the aim of consuming more or following a totally unsustainable growth model while at the same time claiming to face a climate threat. Climate change is a joint project, and then we must invest in the common, in what is redeployment and in what is needed for a green transition. Then we cannot have the way of life of the richest 10%. They barely contribute to the reduction of emissions at all; on the contrary, they are actually the ones who have to start paying for it.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-48	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd start with the global perspective. Oxfam has released several good reports recently where they look, among other things, at the national Swedish perspective and at the global. It was the global perspective that led me to enter politics a lot of years ago, when I realized that climate is our globally most important issue of justice – perhaps our most important class issue from a global perspective. There is no doubt about who is responsible for climate change and who has contributed to the huge emissions that have taken place over the last 150 years: it is the rich countries, the so-called industrialised countries. Furthermore, the poorest countries are most affected: it is a family of children in Bangladesh that is forced to flee the river delta because the sea level is rising. It is a farmer in Angola who can no longer grow the land because it has become so dry. It is the small island nations that are now disappearing completely. These are the people who live in Bolivia and no longer have clean drinking water because the glaciers have melted. These are the consequences of climate change. They strike unequally and unfairly, and it is they who have not contributed to the problems that are most seriously affected. This focuses on the fact that it is the rich who have a particular responsibility. This means that it is we in the rich part of the world who have to reduce our emissions by absolutely the fastest, and we have to do it faster than we do today. This means, for example, that we need to reduce travel with thirsty suvaes. That means we have to reduce flying. As a parenthesis: Then you cannot do as the Left Party did recently and vote down making it more expensive to fly from Malmö municipality, for example. Finally, which I think is very important, it means that we have a responsibility for financing the transformation and adaptation of climate change in the poor part of the world. Here is the issue of climate finance, international cooperation and aid. I was going to take the opportunity to ask the Government, now that she is here, how the government works on these issues. Sweden has long been the forerunner in international climate cooperation, in terms of negotiating ambitious agreements but also its own development cooperation with climate finance, aid for the restoration of ecosystems, the preservation of local culture and nature, and work against land grabbing and the like.
i-FvGziBM3H5L2vqHzUkKtum	Madam President, I would like Thank you, all the interpellers, for the questions. We can begin by stating that it is important that we address the growing economic gaps between rich countries and poor countries – unfortunately, in the last year we have seen an increase in the number of poor people in the world, partly because of the coronapdemine – but also within countries. This is important for a number of reasons. Increased gaps lead to crime, increased inequality and violence. It is not sustainable development, quite simply. Extremism is growing in the poorest countries because one sees this injustice. There are therefore many reasons for reducing economic disparities. Then there's the climate crisis-- it's here and now. Here we need to act very clearly, concretely and precisely in order to have exactly the instruments that remove emissions here and now. If we could solve these two issues and beat two birds with one stone, no one would be happier than me. But unfortunately, if we look at the report from Oxfam and SEI, we see that it is not so simple that we would meet Sweden's climate target if the richest 10% in Sweden reduced their consumption-based emissions by 95% – far from it: We would only reduce consumption-based emissions by 20%. Of consumption-based emissions, 40% are public consumption – hospitals, schools and investments. It is not something that individual choices and individual consumption can help, but we have to change the whole of society and do it now. I am very pleased with the budgetary cooperation that the government had with the Left Party during the last parliamentary term. We have tabled four budgets and eight amending budgets together. We have done a great deal to try to reduce injustice and inequality. We have also worked well together, I think, on many of the climate-related proposals put forward by the government. But if you look at exactly what is the great injustice in the consumption of resources in Sweden, you can see that it boils down a lot to transportation – to large SUVs and to very much air travel. Here the Green Party fought hard during the last parliamentary term to get a flight tax. Unfortunately, I cannot say that the Left Party fought alongside us at the time, but focused on the distribution of income. But it's the flight we need to get to right now. We have put forward 130 measures in the climate action plan where we are going through the whole of society, area by area, in terms of how to reduce emissions from industry, transport and private consumption. Sweden is, as far as I know, the only country that has a mission under way for consumption-based emissions targets. This is extremely important and something we will continue to work on. We have also increased the tax on placing cars through bonuses – malus, and we have a climate action plan. With regard to what Mr Lorentz asked about, we are one of the world's leading countries in terms of climate aid to help poor countries so that they do not repeat our mistakes but can make technological leaps and invest in renewable energy from the start.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As noted by previous Members here, the richest part of the population accounts for the largest share of emissions, but it does not stop at that but goes on to increase their emissions as well. Whatever the case, we will not get to the problem if we do not at the same time start taking measures where they can have the greatest impact. As Jens Holm was in the past, the poorest part is simultaneously reducing its emissions. How the earth's resources have been used historically and how emissions have been involved in building up the layers of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is extremely unevenly distributed. There are some countries representing the absolute majority, not to say the whole, of the emission surplus that exists. Since 2015, for example, the US has been responsible for 40% of the global surplus and the EU for 29. The G8 countries account for 85% and other countries for only 15. According to a scientific article aimed at developing a method for identifying the responsibility of nations for climate change, a majority of the countries in the world, in fact 108 out of 197, have not a climate debt but rather a climate credit with the other countries. This distorted is the responsibility for the emissions and accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. When this short time in history is to be recounted, it will not be a success story. Instead, one will tell about a time when it was a good idea to collect land from a few companies and plant monocultures, one crop or the same tree species, and spray them with pesticides. It will tell about the whole landscape that was made after the idea of industrial profit with the goal of maximum withdrawal, and it will be horrified that humanity could ever be so short-sighted. By reducing these complex ecosystems to individual plantings, we have made everything else invisible, and it has taken far too long before we noticed that the insects, birds and other animals and all life were unable to live in the environment that we created. But we still have not fully understood in society that even humanity is not able to live under these conditions. Every year, for example, 7 600 people die prematurely from air pollution in Sweden. In the world, the figure is 7 million, which is the whole population of Bulgaria. It'll be a little gloomy, apocalyptic. You shouldn't talk like that, some mean. It's important to see things from the bright side too. But I think that if we do not really understand why we are where we are today, if we do not see the links between how we organize society and the climate crisis and if we do not change our attitude to nature and stop seeing it as an infinite resource that we can use at our own discretion, then we will never get out of here. Then we can build as many bike paths as we want. Of course, what the masses do matters. But as long as 1% at the top of the population continues in the same way, while 100 large companies account for 70% of emissions, these measures still weigh lightly. That is why I wonder whether the Minister and the Government are prepared not only to work for and investigate, but really to act to reduce the emissions of those who account for the greater part, of the rich and of the big companies.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-67	Madam President, I would like It sounded as if the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action were trying to describe our proposals as simply demanding a personal responsibility for emissions. It's not like that. Of course, the climate crisis is a political issue, and we must have broad solutions across society. But it gets a little strange when so many politicians don't really want to see that there are big differences between who it is that releases. We stress that not only can we talk in sweeping terms about everyone having to assume their responsibilities, but this is also a matter of justice. We must reduce emissions based on our responsibility and on how much we actually emit. It is important to make visible the emissions of the superriches. I think they actually act as an inspiration to the rest of us. If anyone sees that it's okay to go on a weekend trip to London and shop, then they want to do it too. In addition, this also means very large emissions. If the richest tenth in the EU were to halve its emissions, it would affect the entire EU's emissions by minus 33%. It is very large emission reductions that the richest tenth can actually contribute to. I am puzzled when the Minister for Climate Change says that the Left Party was not the driving force for the introduction of a flight tax. Isabella Lövin, we wanted a higher flight tax than the Green Party and the government finally landed in. For example, you excluded the United States from the category that would have the highest flight tax to give them a much lower flight tax. I attended these negotiations. I saw what the proposal looked like from the beginning, and I saw that, unfortunately, things were getting much worse in the end. We in the Left Party would like to move on with the airline tax. For example, we want a higher and progressive flight tax. A progressive flight tax means that it is at a certain level when you make your first flight. When you make your second flight, it rises a little bit. When you make your fifth, tenth, or twentieth flight, it increases even more. You can also have higher air taxes for business tickets, as Britain has. I think this is an excellent example of how we can actually allow the super rich to pay even more for their climate impact. When we have put forward proposals for progressive aviation tax, we have been met with deaf ears from the Green Party and the government. Does the Minister think this would be a good idea? There's a lot more to do. I believe, for example, that the public sector can be a driver in the climate transition. As Elin Segerlind and Tony Haddou mentioned earlier, the tax reductions that this government has made have not only increased disparities in our country but also increased emissions. Emissions have increased in the absolutely richest income group. Instead, if we can reduce private consumption and allow the public sector to grow, we can have a better school, and we can have more staff in care for the elderly, in health care and so on. It will also reduce emissions because public consumption is less on our natural resources and leads to lower emissions than if we reduce taxes and allow private consumption to increase, because then there will be the purchase of more cars and more weekend trips to London. These are the things that slow down emissions. That is why we need a fair approach to climate policy. I miss that right now with the government.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-75	Madam President, I would like I don't know what happened. There came in an environmental party that debated with its mouthpiece. One wonders if you can't do that internally. The Government again stated in its reply that we need to reduce economic disparities. But there is nothing concrete about this. Of course we need to change the whole community. That's what the government says here. But is it done with reduced taxes for the richest? That's what you've come up with. You lowered taxes even during a global pandemic. Environmental and climate taxes, which are also highlighted by the Government, do not shift you towards equality. You switch them towards reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is in itself a problem not to exchange environmental and climate taxes for greater equality. The Government mentions a new tax reform in its response. That is absolutely necessary. But the aim must once again be to increase equality by redeployment and create the conditions for success in the green transition. This is also how we can boost the public sector more and make substantial investments in the public sector. Here again, I wonder what is the concreteness of the Government. The other day, the two per cent party with which you are working was out and turned for even more tax cuts, and we are still in a global pandemic. Then, of course, we are talking about tax cuts for those who have the most in their wallets, so that rich people can consume even more. Does the Government share the view that you need to move forward with even more tax cuts? That's what you've agreed to so far. In fact, an important part of the solution is that the richest ones reduce their emissions, not that they overconsume and pollute. If we are to succeed, it is time for this government to do something about the low taxation of capital and, in fact, to redistribute equality and change. Is the Government prepared to enter into negotiations to increase, for example, the tax on capital and large fortunes that meet the rich? If so, it would be a way of taking new measures for climate justice. That is what I basically raised in my question, that the rich pay more and are subsidised less. Indeed, the relationship between taxation and environmental policy must be fundamentally reconsidered if society is to achieve all the way to environmental objectives or change, as the Government highlights. We also see the gaps in our environmental impact. That is why the conversion must have the greatest impact on those who currently have the greatest environmental impact and who use the most resources. In this way, we can cut off the consumption space of those who consume the most environmentally and climate-damaging – above all, the richest tenth of society. We can do this at the same time as we see more progressive environmental and climate taxes. They are in themselves many times redistributive, but they must be exchanged for greater equality and not for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Jens Holm mentioned a progressive flight tax that can increase with the number of flights and where revenues go to, for example, public transport and reduced emissions. Then there are also short domestic flights, and it is quite unreasonable for them to even leave. There is a limit to what the climate can do, and we have already exceeded it in the acute situation we are in. For example, when it comes to aviation, which is still one of the largest emission sectors, there is no reason to have private jets taking off and landing. Does the Government think we should have it? Because I think it puts a finger on the rich people's lifestyle. Here the Government is talking about reducing the consumption space for everyone, but then we have rich people who take off and land with private jets. It's totally unjust.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-84	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Left Party for this interpellation debate, because I think it is very important. It turns in my stomach when I think of all the suves that are buzzing around at Djursholm. I feel sick when I think about the climate-denier and industrialist Sverker Martin-Löf-Löf driving around his dog in his private jet. This is a symptom of a society that is not well; it is totally unreasonable for us to have it this way. That is why policies are needed to change this. For too long, it is the policy of the Right that has had to govern the tax system, not least during the year of the Alliance. It is about interest rebates, travel rebates, the abolition of property tax and the deduction of rents and roots, and all of this benefits with surgical precision the rich. Now we simply need to shift policy and focus on achieving more equality, equality and, at the same time, combating climate change. Then we need an increased tax on luxury consumption. There's a need for an increased flight tax. I am clear that it was the Green Party that pushed through the air tax and that it is we who are pushing for it to be increased. The Left Party had every opportunity in the world to actually make budgetary cooperation conditional during the last parliamentary term, but in principle it never did so on a climate issue – never. So it is the Green Party's tax; it is we who have pushed it through, and it is we who are pushing for it to be raised seriously. We need to increase carbon taxes and environmental taxes in general, and we need to invest money in public transport and cycling. It is a policy of climate-smart equality and equality.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-89	Madam President, I would like I think we need to be honest here. The climate crisis is so serious that all future generations, forever and ever, will suffer if we focus on the wrong things now. If we do not base our actions on facts here and now, we risk making mistakes. If we just focus on a tax reform that should have equality as our primary objective, we will unfortunately end up wrong, because we need to change the whole of society. We need to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to live in a climate-smart society and that we have public consumption based on fossil freedom and renewable energy, and just the right measures need to be put in place right now. We have the majority in the Swedish Parliament. The Green Party worked with the Left Party during the last parliamentary term, and we have made a number of strong and important efforts to reduce inequality. Now the democratic landscape looks as it does, and we are cooperating with the Center Party and the Liberals. In this cooperation, we have agreed on a green tax exchange. We are increasing taxes on what emits, which affects big business in particular. Some also affect consumption in the form of air travel, plastic carrier bags, and other such things. However, what we also do in the budget proposal for 2021 is to reduce taxes on low and medium-income earners by 8.4 billion net. It is a lasting effect of 12 billion. So it is completely wrong to claim that we have done nothing on the income side – completely wrong. We have also removed the tax reduction for fossil fuels in the cogeneration sector, and we have removed the tax subsidy for mining diesel. This has led to large reductions in emissions, which is an effective climate policy. So we should not simplify this discussion. I think it's way too serious because it really is. I do not want to defend luxury consumption in the least, but it is not the case that the richest have increased their emissions per capita, but we have an increased population in the country. If you read the report carefully, and are honest, you can see that even the richest have actually reduced their emissions per capita. However, the group has grown. So we need to look at these figures so that we really do the right things. There, the green exchange of taxes is an important issue. Bonus – malus is an extremely successful reform that has made electric cars and rechargeable cars around 40% of new car sales in recent months. This has also meant that car manufacturers now come with significantly cheaper intermediate car models. We also invest in public transport and develop the railways in a way that has never happened before in Sweden's history. We're going high-speed. We've introduced a flight tax. I was in the negotiations on it, and I remember that there was a threat of censure in Parliament because we wanted to introduce the air tax. We were in the government, and we said we'd go ahead with it anyway. We made some minimal changes, as Jens Holm pointed out, but we maintained that we must have a flight tax. We can't back away from that.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-95	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Minister for his reply. There is a ceiling for how much we humans can release if the climate is to cope with it. Scientists have calculated how much it is, and we really just have to relate to that framework. It's like an economic budget: If you overwhelm with one business, you can't do as much of another. You have to end up at zero, or preferably get a little over, in the end, or you'll go bankrupt. I don't think any of us want to see what happens to the Earth's ecosystem if it goes bankrupt. Today a few spend the entire budget on themselves. They also take climate credits and expect the rest of us to hold back on our costs, on our climate space, so that their lives can continue undisturbed. That way of life must end, and yet I expect from a green climate minister – ridiculously, perhaps – more than the policy we are seeing today. Of course, as the Minister himself was concerned, compromises are needed. By all means, but in the end it's only you who decides whether to get in the boat or not. And that is what the Green Party has done: you have sat on the market-liberal boat and hope that your mere presence will make it stop leaking water. But it's not. It's leaking like a sieve. Market liberalisation has a goal, and that is to benefit oneself. That boat cannot be fixed from the inside with plasters and temporary solutions, but requires a new boat that goes in a new direction. To cope with the climate crisis, we need a different economic policy. It's as simple as that. It needs to be based on a fair distribution of financial resources. We need to deal with the idea of constant growth and realise that we have broken through the roof. We need a climate policy that takes into account the earth's limited resources and distributes them so that they can be used by everyone, not just a few.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-100	Madam President, I would like Climate policy itself is often redistributive and very good. If we raise taxes and charges on what pollutes, we know that those who pollute the most also have to pay the most. Furthermore, if we can ensure that revenues go to what reduces emissions and also benefits the majority, we will have a very good redistribution policy. I am thinking, for example, of an altitude and progressive flight tax. If we can take that revenue and invest it in public transport and invest in, for example, walking and cycling infrastructure, we will benefit those people who are already living climate smart and who are completely dependent on a functioning public transport system and on being able to walk and ride safely. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action mentioned environmentally harmful subsidies and some things that are being done, and I think that the government is doing some good things there. But it's done too little, and it's going too slow. In total, we have environmentally harmful subsidies of almost SEK 60 billion in Sweden. Very much goes to private travellers with their own car and to large companies that receive large tax reductions. This is not sustainable; more needs to be done here. The same is true of Corona policy. For seven rounds, the government has now given various support to the aircraft. The airline was the first sector to receive government support – for example, SAS received many billions. It is not sustainable; here the government must change its mind. Madam President, I would like I think this will be my last debate with Isabella Lövin, who will soon resign as party leader and minister. I would like to thank Isabella Lövin for all the fine debates we have had. Isabella Lövin is an honest, well-read and committed politician, and it truly honors her. We need more of that in the political debate. Many thanks for this time, Isabella Lövin, and good luck in the future!
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for another answer! We believe that the government must really begin to broaden the climate issue. It is high time that it included social justice that goes along with greater equality. It is not enough to say so, but to take concrete action. They're the ones who're missing. It is high time the government broadened the climate issue. This is also a democracy issue that I know the Government is passionate about. It is they who have power over oil, coal and the dirty industries who have the power to change the lives of millions of people in the world. This is a democracy issue which I hope the Green Party will widen even further. It goes without saying that state ownership needs to be increased and developed. Then we can also democratically steer in a sustainable direction, because, as Elin Segerlind mentioned, we have seen that the short-term thinking of the market cannot solve this. At the end of the day, we are talking about huge resources, which still exist and which can be fairly distributed and managed. Then it takes will from the government. Then we must mobilise the economy and our resources to facilitate the transition towards a sustainable economy and a fossil-free future. You haven't. It is not enough with the excuse that the formation of the government looks like this and that this is what we have intergovernmental cooperation, but here you need to do a lot more. You know exactly what a tax reform needs to contain to make it more environmentally smart and so on. It needs to go along with equality; that is why we would like concrete measures such as increasing the taxation of capital and large wealth. Then we would have even more resources to change. Then you can actually take from the luxury consumption of the rich to change society. That is what needs to be done in order for it to be climate-fair.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-110	Madam President, I would like Before entering politics, I tried to live as environmentally friendly as I ever could. The research has shown that if we all make all the individual choices we can ever make and stop driving, only eat vegetarian and only shop secondhand we can overall reduce emissions in Sweden by 40 percent. Then we know that not everyone will do this; only a few will. We need a complete change in society, and we need it here and now. Tony said that the government looks like it does, but it is the parliament that looks like it does. We need to get politics through here and now. In fact, I am very proud of the policy we have achieved so far, with a green tax shift of 15 billion. It is not the case that this goes to the rich and to the luxury consumption, but it goes to the low- and middle-income earners. We have raised a great many environmental taxes, and I very much welcome the fact that the Left Party wants to support this. The problem with a progressive flight tax is that it has privacy dimensions. Then we will connect all the airlines to the Swedish Tax Agency, who will check what income you have and how many times you have flown. Besides, everyone should know where they've flown. There is a problem in this. We have proposed a great many other things: take-off and landing fees, climate declaration for flights and simply removing the possibility of flying in the service of municipalities, as in Skåne, which Lorentz Tovatt just said the Left Party was not in favour. You need to have very many and effective instruments. When we support an industrial transition, it allows us to build roads, hospitals and all that we need, for example, steel and cement. It is important to do this and to take market forces with it. I would also like to thank Jens Holm for very many and good debates and for his commitment. Thank you, Jens Holm, for your warm words!
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-117	Madam President, I would like Good morning! David Josefsson has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to avoid that in 2021 we will see an increased number of companies going bankrupt due to the ongoing pandemic. Madam President, I would like There are many companies that have been hit very badly economically by the ongoing pandemic. In order to meet the equity and liquidity problems faced by many companies, the Government has implemented a number of measures to support the business community. The company support that has been developed has different design and aims at different challenges in order to create together the best possible conditions to overcome the negative consequences of the ongoing pandemic. Turnover aid and conversion aid are aid based, inter alia, on a turnover step. Aid in the case of short-term work refers instead to aid for wage costs. In addition, efforts have been made to strengthen companies' loan financing opportunities through Almi, Swedish Export Credit and the Export Credit Board, as well as through loan guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called business case. In addition, Madam President, the government has introduced, for example, temporary reductions in employers' and self-employed contributions, temporary reductions in rental costs in vulnerable sectors, increased state liability for sick pay and deferred tax payments. In connection with the increase in the spread of infection during the autumn, the Government announced that several of these support measures would be extended. The Government is closely monitoring developments and is continuously analysing the need for the necessary measures for the business community.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-122	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not think I need to explain either to the President, to the Government or to anyone else who listens to this debate that the situation of many of Sweden's entrepreneurs is very serious and that it becomes more serious every month as this crisis continues and restrictions remain or new ones are introduced. The Coronapandemy has meant that the basis for some companies disappeared overnight. For others, restrictions have in practice prohibited trade. Companies have changed and found new business models or lived on saved money. But the longer the crisis goes on, the tougher it will be with the endurance of many. In November and December, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise asked questions about the financing and liquidity of companies during the ongoing pandemic. Four out of ten companies replied that they had financial or liquidity problems, and as many replied that they had reduced their equity during the year. One in ten responds that their equity has decreased by at least half. If, at the beginning of last year, the equity was therefore the same as or lower than the share capital, these companies are now bankrupt. Perhaps the most worrying figure is that more than half of companies report that they will not last longer than the first quarter of this year without capital injections. Sweden is thus in danger of facing a major wave of bankruptcy if the pandemic continues and nothing more actively is done by the state. We can now say, Madam President, that the situation was not as difficult as many feared last year. The total number of bankruptcies in 2020 was around the same level as in 2019. But that's not the whole truth, because just looking at the total you miss the individual parts. According to UC, bankruptcies in the hotel and restaurant sector increased by a total of 35 per cent last year from the year before. And the hotel and restaurant business is not the only industry that stands out. In wholesale trade, bankruptcies increased by 28 per cent and in transport by 24 per cent last year compared with the year before. Bankruptcies for the month of December increased by 16 per cent from December of the previous year in 2020 in total. The differences are also geographical, Madam President. In Gothenburg, from which I come, 2 365 employees were affected by the bankruptcy of their employer during April to October last year. This is an upswing of 157 per cent from the year before. 157 %, Madam President. When you talk to entrepreneurs in Gothenburg in the restaurant, hotel or travel industry, no one says that the worst has been, but on the contrary they say that the worst still awaits. When the clock ticks and the longer the time passes, it becomes harder to endure. But it is also said that the government and parliament still have a chance to save some of these companies. This is a situation that entrepreneurs themselves have not been able to predict or influence. The Government's response lists the measures that have been implemented, but almost all the assessors agree that this will not be enough when the crisis is delayed.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-133	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what David Josefsson says. The situation we have is in many ways unique. We entered this pandemic seriously in March. The effects it had on health and on life and the rather tragic development that we have seen with both grief and suffering for those who have suffered from this disease we have never experienced before, nor have we seen such a wide range of effects before. Add the effect this has had on companies but also on employees. It is important not to forget that there are a lot of people who have lost their job, not least in the industries that David Josefsson talks about: commerce, hotels and restaurants. There are many who, like me, have their first job, either as a young person or as a new arrival. These are industries that thus play a very important role. Moreover, if you look back, Madam President, you can see that it is industries that have gone very strongly forward and hired more and more and have thus also become increasingly important for the country. Madam President, I would like It was against this background that it was important for the government to quickly get action in place. Short-term support has played a very important role. We have the conversion aid that is about reducing costs in a very difficult situation and measures concerning sick pay costs and so on. That's made a difference. It's quite obvious. David Josefsson talks about the number of bankruptcies during the full year 2020, and this morning new figures from the Swedish Agency for Growth show that the number of bankruptcies has decreased in 2020 compared to 2019. I think that might surprise some people. As has been said before, it looks very different. The decline is strong in parts of the business world while it has increased in other parts, and it is precisely those parts where people have to do with people, i.e. hotels, restaurants, logistics of various kinds and travel etc. If you look at December, you can also see specifically that it is one-man entrepreneurs who account for almost the whole increase. As has also been said before, we are not out of this – far from it. We all have hopes, I believe, both the entrepreneurs and us in the government and parliament that we will get out of this once we can distribute vaccines as we receive doses. That hope exists, yet the situation is still quite dark, because we are not there yet. With the increasing spread of infection, we have needed and will continue to have to be careful about what we do and how we do it. That means, Madam President, that these industries we are talking about that are having an extremely tough time right now will also continue to need support to overwinter this rather tough situation until the vaccines break through and we get a different order of things in our society. It is against this background, Madam President, that we have only announced this week both the extensions and increases of these aids, both in the case of short-term aid, which is both well-used and appreciated by companies, as well as in the case of turnover aid for the smallest enterprises and conversion aid, which is about helping with the fixed costs. We will also continue to engage in continuous dialogue with the business community in the coming period and will continue to present proposals to mitigate the effects of this very tough situation.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Even when the pandemic broke out about a year ago, we received warning signals that it was in danger of becoming long-lasting and coming in waves. Already then many economic assessors pointed out that most companies have some perseverance but that the longer the crisis goes on, the more will succumb. That is why it was important for us Moderates both to deploy support there and then and to quickly implement measures to enable companies to survive even a long-term crisis. During the spring, for example, we Moderates took the initiative in the Civil Committee to review the time limits in the Companies Act that apply to personal liability. This is in order to avoid that entrepreneurs would feel compelled to put fundamentally viable companies into bankruptcy because of the pandemic. Such provisions have been introduced in England as well as Germany. Fortunately, we received a majority for such an announcement in this House. Last autumn, however, the government chose to consider that announcement closed without action. Among other things, reference was made to the fact that the Swedish Companies Registration Office stated that the number of voluntary liquidations during the period between March and July last year had been at the same level as the corresponding period of the previous year. As I said, what was missed in this discussion were two things, Madam President. One is that the wave of bankruptcies hardly comes at the beginning of a pandemic, but the longer it goes on. One cannot cry the danger over just because the bankruptcies did not come at the same time as the pandemic came. The second is that, as I pointed out in my previous speech, an average of the number of bankruptcies does not give the whole truth. If the government does not want to test our proposals, then so be it. But is there anything else that the government wants to do to reduce the number of bankruptcies? In countries such as Germany, Finland, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States and Australia, various legislative measures have been taken in the context of insolvency law and other regulations – all in order to save viable companies. Both Finland and Germany and Spain have limited the possibility for creditors to apply for bankruptcy on account of the coronapndemin. In Finland, with a Social Democratic-led government, a temporary rule has been introduced that a debtor cannot be considered to be insolvent on the ground that the debtor has failed to pay a defaulted claim within a certain period of time. Madam President, I would like If the government does not want to take on board any of our proposals, is it at least prepared to apply any of the measures in insolvency law that have been applied in other European countries?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-151	Madam President, I would like We have had and will continue to have discussions in this House about what measures are right. When the crisis struck in the spring, we made proposals, but we also tried to listen to industry and other political parties in order to be as effective as possible. In one respect, however, I am pleased that we did not listen to the Moderates' proposals in the spring, for example their proposal to spend EUR 100 billion a month in crisis support for not only those companies that needed it to overwinter the crisis, but for all companies, for example in the form of a general reduction in employers' contributions. This would have meant that today we had not had the resources to support the very companies that I believe both David Josefsson and I are protecting and wanting to overwinter the situation. While there are industries and companies that are suffering greatly, not least in hotels and restaurants, the travel industry and parts of the trade, we know that there are companies that are doing very well and that have even become stronger during the crisis. This applies, for example, to parts of the trade. We should not waste billions after billions on these companies in a situation where the resources are needed to support the healthy companies that need support because the revenue is running out as the pandemic makes it impossible to do business in the way that you are used to. Madam President, I would like I think it is important to both continue to support and help and that we have the insight that I think we all have that we are still in the midst of the pandemic, and before the vaccine kicks in we will have to continue to have this type of support. The answer to the question is that our focus has been on ensuring that costs for companies are reduced, to ensure that the smallest companies receive turnover support and to ensure that wage costs are reduced by the short-term aid that we have extended and now again increased the level of. In this way, we will ensure that otherwise healthy companies can survive. Of course you can shoot things in front of you. But sooner or later you'll have to pay your bills. Then I think that the strategy of taking on the burden of sharing costs is more successful than thinking that it will be all right if you put things in front of you. Madam President, I would like I'm not closing the door for any action. The situation is far too serious to say that there is only one solution. We keep following it. We are having a discussion with the business community. And we meet the other political parties, not least at party leadership level, to take on board further views. In this way, at a very difficult time, we can use taxpayers' money as pragmatically as possible in a good and effective way to ensure that as many companies and jobs as possible are saved. Madam President, I would like I would just like to ask David Josefsson a question. I really appreciate the commitment to ensuring that there are as few bankruptcies as possible. It is also my ambition as Minister of Enterprise. In parallel with what I mentioned earlier, there are a great many employees, over 80 000, who lose their jobs. We're in a very high unemployment rate. While saying that they are protecting businesses – I think that is good – the Moderates choose in their draft budget to cut back support for those who are unemployed. What is the logic of cutting unemployment for those who are unemployed when we are still in the midst of a crisis? It would be interesting to hear why companies and the unemployed are treated differently.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-159	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for your answer. I'll answer the question. 2 365 Gothenburgers lost their jobs last year because their employers went bankrupt. Saving businesses is not about saving entrepreneurs. Saving businesses is about saving jobs. I see in Gothenburg that people lose their jobs because companies go bankrupt. We want to save the jobs. That's our focus. During the pandemic, we Moderates have pushed the government ahead of us to increase support for affected companies. The last time in the Committee on Finance we pushed for the level of compensation in the conversion aid to be increased to 90%. We pushed forward a announcement in connection with the so-called Pandemic Act that financial compensation should be paid to affected activities. And last spring, we launched a notice reviewing the time limits for the liability of representatives in the Companies Act. It is an announcement that the government made without action and where the government's support parties later changed their feet. Madam President, I would like Let me recapitulate the situation. Four out of ten companies report financial or liquidity problems. One in ten companies says that their equity has been reduced by half since the beginning of the crisis. More than half of the companies state that they will not last longer than the first quarter without capital injections. Although the economy as a whole has begun to recover, many companies and industries continue to have a really tough time. When you have asked the government what it intends to do during the pandemic, the answer has often been as what Ibrahim Baylan today says: The government is closely following developments. Afterwards, they said they didn't see it coming. Sweden's entrepreneurs are struggling to survive. It is up to us in this House to decide what support society is prepared to provide in order to save jobs and businesses. So what does the government intend to do? Is it intended only to follow developments closely and then say that the wave of bankruptcy did not come?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-165	Madam President, I would like I understand David Josefsson who is in opposition. I myself have been in opposition for eight years. Then you should critically review the government and even criticise the government. However, this becomes somewhat out of date when we have a government and a parliament that has decided on several hundred billion in direct support precisely to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. It becomes small reality when we have a government and a parliament that has decided nearly 400 – 500 billion in various types of loans, guarantees and credits precisely to ensure that otherwise healthy companies can overwinter this crisis. When we talk about different types of direct subsidies, guarantees, programmes and credits of nearly 700 billion of taxpayers' money that we have spent over ten months making available to our society and our business community, it becomes somewhat confusing to hear moderate representatives say: We have a government that says it will follow developments. I don't think any government ever – I hope it will never again be needed, but you can't be sure – has done so much to ensure that we can overwinter a pretty tough situation. It concerns our society, the people in our society, the people who become unemployed, but also the companies and entrepreneurs who need this kind of help and support during this period. Madam President, I would like I understand, of course, that even in this kind of tough situation, we want to take party political points. But I think that people expect more from us, namely that we help each other in a rather tough situation so that we can overwinter this. And once we've overwintered this, we can resume the political game.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-169	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson for targeted support to the bus industry. A rbetet within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Madam President, I would like There are many companies that have been hit economically very hard by the ongoing pandemic, not least in transport and tourism. In order to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on jobs and businesses, the government has presented a series of measures: short-term lay-off, conversion aid, turnover support for individual traders, the possibility of deferral of tax payments, reduced employers' contributions, compensation for sick pay costs and extended the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit when a company has previously been dormant. Furthermore, the government has announced that it will propose to extend several of these measures, as we are still in the midst of the pandemic and a difficult situation. A large part of the country's bus services are operated on behalf of the regional public transport authorities and, in addition to ticket revenues, are financed by municipalities and regions. The ongoing pandemic represents an exceptional effort for the economy of the local government sector. Therefore, following the Government's proposal, the Riksdag has contributed SEK 26 billion in general state grants to municipalities and regions in 2020. Madam President, I would like In order to enable the maintenance of a sufficient supply of public transport, the Riksdag, following the Government's proposal, also provided targeted support to the regional public transport authorities of SEK 3 billion for 2020. For 2021 an additional SEK 2 billion will be added. Madam President, I would like I and the government are continuously analysing the impact of the proposed support measures and are constantly considering the need for the necessary measures for business. We therefore also have close and intensive contact via the Ministry of Industry and other parts of the Government Office with the business community to try to find the most effective measures in a very difficult time.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-174	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! The answer to the interpellation I put forward is to a large extent focused on the traffic carried out in regions, i.e. public transport. The government has provided assistance to the regions to enable them to carry out this traffic. What I really focused on in my question was ordering traffic. It's another part of the bus business. The business is basically still in place today. 98% have disappeared for a large part of the companies operating in this branch of the bus industry. It is completely impossible to run your company if 98% of the revenue is lost. It is not possible to eat if the plate is empty, if you can express yourself figuratively. This is, of course, due to the situation in which society finds itself, as well as to the restrictions imposed by the government. Basically the whole cultural side of society stands still. It is about theatres and things that order traffic often goes to. Among other things, you come here to Stockholm from different parts of the country to be able to go to theatre or some other cultural activity. This is completely down today. It will be impossible for these companies to survive, even though they are otherwise prosperous, well-functioning and well-managed. This means a multimillion-dollar investment when buying a tourist bus today, if it is to be roadworthy and offer good comfort to travellers. It costs 3 – 5 million if you want to buy a bus. This money is going back to the bank or some financier. But where are you supposed to find the money when you can't even get the most basic? We heard in a previous debate that the bankruptcies in the hotel and restaurant sector were 35%. It is clear that this has consequences that spread out into activities such as the bus and coach industry. The situation has affected fundamentally well-managed companies. These are companies that have been successful in the sector in which they have been active. But today the buses stand still. I myself have been active in the bus industry and have driven several trips up here to Stockholm with travelers who would visit various activities. I often talk to others who are active in the industry today. They say it's still. Last summer I was at a bus company and held an education in YKB, a certificate of professional competence. This company was fortunate to have won a public transport contract in the county transport business. I asked them what would have happened to them if they had not won the contract. They said they had to shut down. That was the harsh reality. Their happiness was that they won a procurement and could thus live on. If they hadn't, they wouldn't have survived. It is such a situation that now prevails among the bus companies. We live in a dramatic time. I want to hear if the government intends to take action to ensure that companies like these have a chance of survival so that we have a society that can start up again after the pandemic. After all, we will come into a time when this is over, and then we must be able to push the country forward.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-183	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question, Thomas Morell, is undoubtedly yes. I will come back to exactly what measures are being taken. I think we are all aware that it is not individual measures that put us in the situation that we are doing. That's because we're in the middle of a global pandemic. It does not only affect our country; it is global, hence the word pandemic. Different measures have been adopted in different countries. Many countries chose rather early to shut down altogether. In Sweden, we have been quite agreed throughout the Riksdag to have a different strategy. In our strategy, it has been about protecting human life, curbing the infection and thereby reducing suffering and mitigating the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. And this has happened in this order of priority – saving lives, curbing the infection and reducing suffering and reducing the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is against this background that we have made many of the efforts. As I mentioned in the previous interpellation debate, Madam President, by now we have made available 700 – 800 billion of taxpayers' money in various programmes to help otherwise healthy companies to overwinter the situation. We are still in the middle of this work. For some sectors of the economy in particular, the situation is very serious. It is about the part of the business community dealing with people, i.e. restaurants, hotels, tour operators of various kinds, the cultural sector, the sports sector, etc. In other parts of the business world we see that, unlike last spring, things are going better, for example in industry, although there are, of course, problems there too. Madam President, I would like I'll be honest with Thomas Morell. It is clear that during this period we have looked at a variety of ways of trying to support otherwise healthy companies. We have looked at both general and specific measures within the framework of laws, regulations and our membership of the European Union. We have looked at what we can do fastest, most effective and most accurate. Of course, we have also looked at sector-specific measures. But they're not simple. They are legal and economic and sometimes also extremely complex from the point of view of state aid, especially when the time aspect is important, Madam President, as it was in the spring and as it is now. We urgently need measures in place so that companies can receive support. This is particularly true for the reason that Thomas Morell himself points out, namely that revenue in certain sectors has either been almost non-existent or dropped very sharply. Our ambition has been to go in and help reduce costs such as wage costs and fixed costs. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that we have presented further support this week to help in the difficult situation. I want to point out what I started to talk about: Yes, we are ready to help. Just look at the new turnover aid to individual traders! This aid is of particular importance to the bus industry. We have decided to extend the aid and propose an increase from 75% to 90%. We are doing the same with conversion aid and, of course, with short-term aid, where we want to raise the level to 80%. These are measures that we have presented this week, and I also see before me that we will come back with further measures in view of the tough situation we are in right now.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-192	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The part of the bus business that I would like to focus on is ordering traffic. It has indeed been severely affected by the situation in which we find ourselves. We must, of course, take measures to reduce the spread of infection in society and to ensure that we break the back of the spread of the disease. It is also about healthcare being able to cope with the burden that is currently extremely high. But, as I said, there will be a time after the corona when we will start up our societies. Transport is extremely important to get the wheels to roll again. This applies, of course, to freight transport, but also to passenger transport. The companies that drive ordering traffic have an extremely important role to play in getting the wheels started and in enabling us to get jobs not only in the bus industry but also on the cultural side in theatres and whatever it may be. The bus industry provides this type of activity with visitors. Then the bus industry has another important role, if we stick to the order traffic, namely when the train traffic becomes permanent for some reason. It can be a serious signal failure or – as down in Skåne a few years ago – a major fire that stops traffic. Then the buses are on hand to take over the traffic, so that the passengers can continue. But the buses disappear and the bus companies go bankrupt there is not even that possibility of resorting to when rail traffic stops for some reason. When I talk to representatives of the bus industry, they say that 2020 has been an extremely tough year but that it will be a lot worse in 2021. We will see a wave of bankruptcy in the year in which we have just entered unless action is taken. There is also evidence that you do not get the support that you have been promised. It is difficult and complicated to apply, and it is not always that money is paid out. Often you hear that there is a lot of support for industries, but in the end, no money comes from these entrepreneurs. It's serious. The government must sit down and get a workshop in the promises that have been made. Otherwise, we will not have a transport market on the person side that can meet the need for transport after the pandemic. Instead, people will travel in their passenger cars, and that is not a solution for the future, as we have heard in an earlier debate today. If the bus industry is to survive, overwinter and survive, it must have help and support. I want to hear a clear direction from the Government, so that the bus industry – they are listening now – knows what the government's direction and help will mean. I look forward to a clear answer in this debate.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-199	Madam President, I would like I am fully aware that companies engaged in bus and coach transport – primarily in tourism and ordering, as Thomas Morell mentions – are suffering very badly, not least because of the situation we have in the tourism industry. This is not just about what is happening within the country and about which Thomas Morell is talking. Moreover, for well-known reasons we have not had – and should not have – a great deal of cross-border travel in the form of tourism and other things for a long time. It is clear that the bus companies have high costs. These include refunds for cancellations, vehicle and capital costs and leasing and interest costs. We reimburse such costs through the conversion aid in order to help companies overwinter. As we move forward with both extending this and increasing the level of aid from 75 to 90 per cent from November 2020 to February, it is precisely aimed at this type of company to help overwinter this rather tough situation. How long, then, will this situation last? I would have liked us to have been able to put an end to this misery, and I think we would all have liked that. But we're not really there. We hope, of course, that the vaccine will have an impact during the spring. The promise is to try to vaccinate all adults who want to before the summer, but we are not really there. It is against this background that we are presenting these proposals. This applies to both the turnover aid and the conversion aid. Turnover support meets individual traders. In this industry there are both individual traders and many trading companies. Then it'll be very accurate. The other support that we are talking about and which is also important here applies to those who have employees. This, of course, includes short-term support. I defend myself against the image that Thomas Morell is now trying to spread from the speaker's chair: that the support does not come out and do not hit. Let me give you an example, Madam President. 70 000 companies received short-term support to ensure that employees are kept. That's very good. The total amount paid in December last year was 32 billion of taxpayers' money. There were cases where checks were needed and where there were no complete documents – it took longer. We work intensively to ensure that the Swedish Growth Agency is able to handle these, so that those who will have support, those who have pure flour in the bag, which is the lion's share of all companies, also receive the support. We must also ensure that those who do not have pure flour in the bag, that is, those who engage in organised crime, among other things, cannot access taxpayers' money in this situation, Madam President. The day before yesterday, Madam President, a report from Almi was produced with the help of researchers from a number of universities. 1 200 entrepreneurs had been asked in 2020, especially in smaller companies, how they looked at the subsidies, whether they had used them and how much they would have used them. Three quarters were either quite or very satisfied with the way they received support and how it was handled. Of course, that does not mean that everyone is. I understand that, especially when it takes a very desperate time. But I also think it is important, Thomas Morell, that we do not, from the speaker's seat, spread data that is without foundation in reality. Yes, the situation is tough, and it is particularly tough for a number of industries that continue to have a very difficult time. It is against this background that we shall continue to help each other. But it is also important during this tough time that we do not spread data that is not based on reality.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-204	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. No, we won't. But the people I've talked to say that it has been extremely difficult to get the support. Some have not even received support. I really hope that there will be some schvung in the business, so that these entrepreneurs have a chance to survive. The Government Tomas Eneroth attended Transport Forum at the beginning of the year. There he was asked by the bus industry whether there will be targeted efforts in 2021, for example with support for decommissioned vehicles. I read from an article in the middle of the article:" Tomas Eneroth replied that he well knew the tough reality that, among other things, the country's bus and taxi companies now live in. He also pointed out that he has a good dialogue with the... bus business. Some promises he did not want to make, but he strongly pointed out that he did not rule out targeted support later. He stressed that he believed that the government would need to find more and preferably more accurate models, a work that he felt needed to be done in consultation with the industries. ..................................................... There was a lot of belief in the answer given to the bus industry. It does not live very well on promises that you believe you can make efforts, but it must be more specific than that. I come from Skövde, which is a military city. There we are quite used to pointing with the whole hand when something is to be done. I really wish the government would point out with all its hands to direct support to those entrepreneurs who really need help at this point in time. If you lose 98% of your income, it is very difficult.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-207	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is very difficult for a number of companies in the bus industry, as well as for a large number of industries that continue to be in a tough position. It is against this background that we continuously present additional support measures. We've done it as late as this week. We are using taxpayers' money to ensure that healthy companies in our country can overwinter. We're gonna get back to work. No, we are not ruling out any measures. It would be wrong and stupid in a situation where we still don't know when we'll get out of this misery. Madam President, I would like The reason why I mention the importance of accurate information is that there may be entrepreneurs watching this debate and who have not so far had to use the subsidies but who are now starting to think about it because the situation continues to be tough. If they then get the false impression that there is no point in applying for aid, we risk getting into a worse situation for both the companies and the employees who work there. It is against this background that it is important that what you say is based on facts. Then we are fully aware that there has been a huge storm on the authorities that were not prepared in March for this kind of pandemic. You've had to hire. Just take the Swedish Agency for Growth, which handles the short-term support. People have gone from zero employees working on short-term support in March, and now over 400 are doing it with an automated system that helps. Of course it has been necessary. However, it has also meant that we need to gradually ensure that we have checks that those who receive the money are also the ones who should have it. We know – and I think Thomas Morell is also aware of this – that when this kind of situation arises with so much of taxpayers' money, there is a risk that organised crime and scams will come into play. Neither do I nor Thomas Morell.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-211	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me, on the one hand, what measures I intend to take to ensure that state companies procure transport that complies with the rules in force, and, on the other hand, whether the government, as owner, intends to take any action to interfere with the postal procurement of transport. Madam President, I would like I am serious about the reports of unauthorised cabotage operations. Government companies must of course comply with laws and regulations. In addition, the starting point for the government's corporate governance is that they should act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship, and in 2020 the government has also decided on a new ownership policy for companies with state ownership that states that the companies should impose requirements on labour law conditions with suppliers and subcontractors. In the field of occupational transport, the Government is working intensively, inter alia, on the issue of road freight transport, with a view to promoting fair competition, road safety and a good working environment in the road transport sector. For this reason, the Government decided to strengthen the ordering responsibility for international transport and cabotage in the spring of 2018. Furthermore, on 22 August 2020, the Government appointed a special investigator to propose ways of strengthening the control activities of road commercial transport. Madam President, I would like More specifically, regarding Postnord, I continuously conduct a dialogue with the company about the challenges in the supply chain and the importance of ensuring order and order and the fair terms of all its suppliers. This is continuously followed up in continuous ownership dialogues. Madam President, I would like I also called in the company for a special meeting in March 2020 where the company reported on how they work specifically with transport purchases. This included improvements in the company's procedures to ensure exemplary behaviour. Postnord – especially during the pandemic and with the growing e-commerce – performs a very large number of transports in Sweden every day, and the capacity needs increase further during, for example, the Christmas trade. The Ministry of Industry has been informed that the company has taken action in response to the mentioned in cidents that occurred in December 2020.
i-9vpRdgYEnuGZcvGsqYPohB	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Ibrahim Baylan! Here we are again. This is the third time we have discussed Postnord and illegal cabotage. I get just as annoyed every time. We are talking about a company owned by the state so one can expect the company to buy transport that complies with applicable legislation. Then you should not have to read in the newspapers that Postnord has again ended up in a situation where it uses unauthorized cabotage. In the interpellation debate that we had on 10 March 2020, the Government replied: In addition, companies with state ownership must act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. ..................................................... That was the answer almost a year ago. Yet here we are again discussing Postnord and illegal cabotage. I'm a little curious about what the Government got the answer in the conversation that was conducted with the management of the Postnord. Out in the transport industry, Postnord and its transport are a good thing among hauliers and drivers. You can see what's going on on the road. The police are understaffed to get to it, but it gets hit from time to time. It will probably not be long before there is a date again, and then there will be a new debate. At some point it must end so that a state-owned company conducts its business in an exemplary manner. That's quite a reasonable demand you can make. Why would someone else mind if the government doesn't have to? Minister for Labour Eva Nordmark and Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson have an article in the newspaper Profs. It was published on January 12. It says that no one should be exploited in the Swedish labour market. Many industries use cheap labour, not least from other countries. The transport sector is also one of these. Not infrequently, the existence of this kind of labour force is characterised by poor wages and often poor working environment. But we will never give in to unserious employers who exploit people. ..................................................... Now we are talking about Postnord, which is a state-owned company that uses this type of transport. It is particularly remarkable that this discussion should be discussed time and again. I would like an answer from the Government. What did you find in your conversation with Postnord? Should measures be taken to comply with the law, or will we see again transport that does not comply with the rules?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-224	Madam President, I would like It is just as Eva Nordmark and Morgan Johansson write. We are a government that protects employees' rights. We have been doing this all the time that my party has been around in any case. We have been involved in building up a lot of what is Swedish employment security. We stand up for trade union rights and the legislation that means that people should be able to have safe jobs, show respect and have conditions that can be lived on. We have worked for this in all the years we have been active, and we will continue to do so. Does that mean that we now believe that everything is ready? No, it's not like that. I also think Thomas Morell understands that deep down. This is particularly true of this type of sector where we are talking about cross-border traffic. There have been many problems. Thomas Morell knows that. At the same time, Thomas Morell knows that there is no government that has done so much, both within the framework of EU cooperation and in the country, to try to tighten up the regulatory framework and follow-up of the regulatory framework. Is that work done? No, of course it's not. I think it never will be. We both know that as soon as you turn your eyes away, rogue companies and rogue traders come up trying to compete by cheating. That is why this must be followed up all the time. This is also true when we work with Postnord. I have the greatest confidence that the Executive Board of Postnord with operational management is doing what they can. But that does not mean that there will be no incidents where it is discovered that the regulatory framework has not been complied with. Then it is important that you take action by changing your routines. Postnord has done so and will continue to do so. However, it is also necessary to take action in view of the shortcomings detected. I will answer Thomas Morell's question: what are the measures in this particular answer? The deviations we are now talking about are two in December. There, Postnord has announced that it is simply introducing new routines. From now on, foreign activities will only be used by Swedish hauliers or foreign hauliers who have completed all international transport at the final destination so that they do not end up in a situation such as in the present case. With regard to the second incident that we are talking about, according to the information we have received from Postnord, you will not use the haulage company in question because you from Postnord look very seriously at the lack of documentation in the case. This does not apply to the current driving, but the driving backwards in time, where there is also a requirement for documentation. Then the measure is that Postnord will henceforth not use this haulage company because it has been shown that they cannot abide by the very rules and laws that exist. I think it's just this way you can work. It is both a question of constantly strengthening our own procedures and of taking action so that the same problem, the same crime or the same incident can not arise again, Madam President.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is an extremely simple way of getting away from this, and it is simply using serious companies that carry out the transport. It's the easiest way to go. I do not think that a state-owned company should be involved in dumping prices on the market. There is also another dimension to this, and that is that illegal traffic in Sweden is often controlled and managed by criminal networks. I'm going to read a few lines from a debate article that the former head of the county police in Västra Götaland has written. It's like this: Europol notes in its threat picture for serious organised crime in 2017 that in Europe more than 5,000 mobile criminal gangs are ravaging. 70% of these work cross-border in more than three countries. The gangs are often multi-criminal, i.e. working in more than just one criminal area. But frequent crime areas are, of course, drug smuggling and property theft, but also smuggling of the illegal weapons used in all gang conflicts. For many years now, the Swedish police have had major problems in carrying out effective control activities along our roads, as has been pointed out in various contexts, not least from the haulage industry, which has been damaged by the large flora of foreign haulage companies that abuse bad systems around transport and outcompete domestic haulage companies. All criminals who move cross-border use roads to transport themselves, the goods they have stolen or the various goods and people they smuggle in or out of our borders. That's how a former chief of police wrote. We have discussed this several times in this House. This is about the link between illegal traffic and criminal activity. Then it is disturbing for me to see that Postnord constantly figures in these contexts. Postnord is a company owned by the state. It is extremely serious that we have the situation that we have in Sweden with this illegal traffic with all that it means. The companies that use this type of activity sponsor indirect criminal activities, and that the state does so is remarkable. The Government says in its reply that action has been taken. Yes, it has been done, but they have not been given any real power — simply because the police are clearly undersized when it comes to getting to this. An amendment was made to the customer responsibility in 2018. Two cases are reported under that legislation. Both cases are subject to appeal and, according to the information I have received, they will probably also be dismissed. Companies are therefore cleared because the legislation is too weak. It can't get to this. This means that criminal activities can continue at all times, because there will be no criminal proceedings. It puts away the bones of serious business in Sweden, and it affects all individuals in this country who are exposed to different types of crime. It can be burglary, and it can be all kinds of things you get exposed to. The car might be stolen or something like that. This may continue year in and year out. There has to be a change in this, and I think the state should lift the flag and go first and show that you do not accept this.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-247	Madam President, I would like We are in complete agreement on the ambition. But I also think everyone understands that there are no shortcuts here. It is a question of tightening up the regulatory framework. We have done so, and we are prepared to continue to do so. It is about trying to strengthen control activities, and there are no shortcuts there. Then you have to make sure that you both train and hire more police officers. And we do. We have opened several new police training courses, and we are making sure that the police even receive more than the police authorities have requested in terms of resources to hire these police officers who are now being trained. It is both about being able to get them out to fight organised crime and to prosecute this type of crime on roads and more. We are doing this for a very simple reason: we shall have order in our country. But we must not be naive and believe that we have done this once and for all, because we know at the same time that, when we deal with certain crimes, new innovations are emerging which these criminal organisations and individual criminals are engaged in. Against this background, Madam President, I myself believe that we will have to continue to work on this. We will, of course, have to do so within the framework of legislation and for control activities, and there we set up an investigation on 22 August last year to ensure that this is further strengthened. In the case of the state-owned company Postnord, we will also continue to work both with their procedures and with ensuring that they take strong action if there are any shortcomings. I have the greatest confidence that there is no doubt whatsoever about what is at stake. On the other hand, Madam President, it is exactly as Thomas Morell himself says: we come from a history of an industry where it has been the Wild West and where we get better and better order, but not enough. It is against this background that we have regulations, control activities and the requirements that we impose on the state companies. With this, we will make sure that we take action to make things better and better. We can therefore hope that at some point we may find ourselves in a situation where, despite increased controls, this type of deficiency is not detected – whether it is a state company or someone else.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-254	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The road is Sweden's largest crime scene, because the criminal networks use the road for their activities. They transport themselves, and they transport the goods that are stolen and such things. I don't know if I can agree with the government when he says it's getting better, because when I talk to my old colleagues in the traffic police, they say it's like fishing in an aquarium. Just go out and pick you up, and you have to do all day to figure out what's wrong. What we would need is a clear focus on better checks on the road and more officials on the road. We need to tighten up the legislation so that we can get rid of what the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Labour raised. It should not be so bad that you can use people the way you do in Sweden. We have modern slavery at present. We could spend the rest of the day reading a police report and going through what's in there. It's a final report of a government mission, so the Government has access to the report. Some report a problem picture. It says: In the agency's common situation on organised crime in 2019, the authorities describe, among other things, how free movement within the EU makes it easier for international crime networks to operate in several countries. Then we try to illustrate this in the form of an iceberg. There are trafficking in human beings, companies in criminal activities, environmental crimes, weapons, explosives, human trafficking, drugs and smuggling. It's in this environment we find Postnord. I think it is extremely serious, and I sincerely hope that we do not have to have another discussion on this one more time.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-260	Madam President, I would like If shortcomings are detected, I hope we have a discussion, because we should not accept that. We have every right to demand that state-owned jointly-owned companies – in this case together with the Danish State – set a good example. They must contribute – and there we have tightened the regulatory framework – to good conditions, including in subcontractors. It is, of course, our common resources in every way. If, in spite of the measures taken, shortcomings are found, then I hope that we will have an open discussion on this. I believe that this is the only way for us to gradually get rid of some of the problems that exist. Nevertheless, I would argue, Thomas Morell, given what the Wild West has been like and the problems that have existed in this industry, that we can gradually – with changes in regulations, with improvements in control activities and with additional demands, for example, for state companies to operate exemplaryly and also to procure in a way that does not push back the terms but, on the contrary, demands for collective agreements and more – can take steps forward. At the same time, we must be aware that, even if we find ourselves in a situation where we can say that we have taken a large number of measures, we cannot relax. After all, it is the case, particularly with regard to cross-border crime, that new ways are always found. We must constantly push it back, for that is of course something we should not accept. We shall have order in this, too. Many thanks for the debate.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-264	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to review the impact of nutrition policy and whether I intend to take steps to review impact assessments of nutrition policy. The goal of enterprise policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in growing companies. Enterprise policy efforts will also contribute to the implementation of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement, among other things. The support available to the business community shall pursue these objectives. There are challenges in designing the aid when it is justified by the existence of different so-called market failures and that it should lead to the desirable development of businesses and businesses that would not have been possible without the aid. Mr President, I would like to To ensure this, aid must be adequately evaluated. The evaluation of industrial policy presents methodological challenges such as difficulties in finding suitable control groups and catching so-called spill-over effects. The government has therefore recently shifted its efforts in the area of impact assessments in order to increase the accuracy of industrial policy support. In recent years, the Government has been working on developing the performance report in Category 24 to achieve a clearer link between the goals of industrial policy and the efforts made. The Government has also taken steps to develop the methods for evaluating aid and to design aid so that it can be better evaluated. T illväxtanalys was commissioned in 2017 to make proposals on how to develop the application of methods and models for evaluating public efforts in innovation and entrepreneurship. In Growth Analysis Accounting, among other things, the question of the purpose of evaluations was highlighted. D it is clear that evaluations can have different objectives. They can be implemented, for example, to demand responsibility but also to increase learning. The Government agrees that independent impact assessments are of great importance. Evaluations with the aim of increasing the learning of the authorities implementing interventions are also important. Evaluations can also be carried out by the national authorities, where they are particularly suited to the purpose and ambition of the evaluation. Mr President, I would like to In the budget proposal for 2021, Growth Analysis was added to SEK 2 million in 2021, SEK 3 million in 2022 and SEK 4 million in 2023. The money in the initiative will be used for more impact assessments, but also contribute to Growth Analysis's long-term goal of developing a comprehensive database to support the evaluation of public interventions in growth policy. The Government also welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Impact assessments of industrial policy – lack of reliability, which constitutes an important knowledge base for impact assessments of industrial policy. In a letter in the spring, the Government will develop its assessment of the report's conclusions and recommendations and explain what possible measures the government intends to take in response to the report.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-272	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have long pointed out shortcomings in public support for business. Reports from public authorities as well as individual academics and stakeholder organisations have suggested that the impact of various industrial policy support is either limited to non-existent or impossible to measure. For example, the Committee on Economic Affairs has in the near future dealt with the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on regional Structural Fund partnerships, which is being debated at the end of January. The review report from the Swedish National Audit Office that the letter concerns expresses a strong criticism of this project. This is a joint project with the EU that has spent almost SEK 25 billion on companies and research in Sweden in six years. Criticism concerns conflict of interest and lack of transparency which weakens legal certainty, but also lacks the conditions for effective implementation. It can also be mentioned that the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analyses, Growth Analysis, repeatedly criticized various industrial policy support and stated, among other things, that two of the Innovation Agency Vinnova's support programmes: ..................................................... Growth analysis has also concluded in an analysis of the overall support to industry in 2011 that 22 different authorities were involved in the management of the aid, a fact which of course complicates both the applicants and the beneficiaries of the aid. It is also clear that this has been a problem for a number of governments, not just the one sitting, because it seems to have been difficult to deal with the problems that have been known for a long period of time, quite apart from the individual measures that the Council of State highlighted in its in terpellation response. So far, no government has acted seriously to ensure that hard-earned tax funds are not wasted through ineffective economic policies. These efforts are associated with primarily two different problems: When impact can be measured, it seems to be completely lacking, and in the other cases it cannot even be measured. The latter, the impact assessment, is the reason for today's interpellation debate. The Swedish National Audit Office recently released the review report Impact assessments of industrial policy – lack of reliability. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed 37 evaluations of the impact of industrial policy between 2015 and 2018. Of these, only two met the requirements that a reliable impact assessment should meet. In other words, it is not possible today to determine whether or not the industrial policy that costs billions of tax dollars annually works. That is really bad, Mr President. I would like to ask Ibrahim Baylan how this has happened.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-279	Mr President, I would like to As I described earlier, we must continuously work to improve these methods, and we do. I think everyone who has dealt with this knows that it is not that simple, not least when there are, for example, no control groups. In addition, the discussion should be broadened. We don't live in a bubble, Tobias Andersson. We are part of a Union, the European Union, and of a global, competitive market. It is very much true for a small country like Sweden, which is based very much of its welfare on trading with other countries. Half of Sweden's GDP, and thus half of Swedish welfare, is based on foreign trade. That is why competitiveness is becoming extremely important, as is the fact that we have companies that come up with new innovations. We do not want – at least this government does not want that – to compete with worse conditions for employees. It shall be reasonable wages and conditions for the staff employed a. Then competitiveness, efficiency of what you do and innovation will be extremely central. This is what much of the industrial policy is based on. We are not the only country that is vigorously engaged in industrial policy, on the contrary. There are a number of countries – competitors and countries in our vicinity – which are now even stepping up their efforts in the changing geopolitical situation between China, the US and Europe. Against this background, Mr President, we must, of course, improve our methods of follow-up. But we must also see what this policy has given us. Let me give some examples of how others estimate that the business climate, competitiveness and innovation power are in Sweden. There are many such comparisons of both the business climate and the innovation climate in different countries. Generally speaking, there is a common denominator, namely that Sweden falls well into these comparisons. When the European Union, that is to say the Commission, makes a comparison between the 27, formerly 28, EU countries and measures the power of innovation, which is very central to a country that does not want to or will not compete with lower wages and worse conditions for its employees, Sweden comes one year after the year. I think it's been like that for at least four years in a row now. When Forbes, a reputable newspaper, looked at When the World Economic Forum looks at the competitiveness of its so-called Global Competitiveness Report and compares 140 countries around the world, Sweden will be eight. I could continue, Mr President, but I believe that my point has nevertheless been made. It is clear that we must continue to evaluate each individual measure, but we must also be aware that we need an active industrial policy. We need this both to continue working together with our business community and to make the changes needed to remain competitive and for many other countries to take very strong action. If you do what the Swedish Democrats want and cut down on industrial policy, it also means that there will be fewer jobs in Sweden. There will be fewer companies in Sweden, and then Swedish employees and the competitiveness of Swedish industry will be neglected. Yes, we need to improve our effectiveness evaluation. We will return to Parliament with a letter on this in the spring. But I am very firm that we need a strong and active industrial policy for jobs and welfare in our country.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for everything! Like nutrition policy, the Minister for Economic Affairs also lacks reliability in the analysis. After all, it is not a law of nature that simply because we pump money into the business world, it leads to success in terms of innovation. On the contrary, it can be argued that it is despite the industrial policy measures that Sweden is a successful country in the measurements that the Minister for Economic Affairs highlights. The problem I highlight here is the alternative cost. If we had chosen to invest the money that today goes either to ineffective measures for industry or to measures that cannot even be assessed and instead put it on the other side, we might have seen a completely different result. However, what we are discussing today is not news. It's been known for a long time. Among other things, it was established in a government investigation already in 2016, but still it has not been addressed. The reason is that a majority in the Swedish parliament has addressed a couple of announcements to the government on the subject, and despite the fact that the government in the 2019 budget bill promised to improve the conditions for evaluations, this has not happened. I see it as directly remarkable, not least given that there are several billions each year. What is also remarkable here is Ibrahim Baylan's disregard for the problem. When Dagens Industri's journalist Fredrik Björkman began reporting on the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Ibrahim Baylan did not allow himself to be interviewed. Mr President, I would like to When the people wanted to know whether or not the industrial policy billions would have any effect and why the impact assessments did not meet the standards, the responsible minister chose to duck for questions. Someone who did not duck for the questions that Today's industry wanted to ask was Niklas Kaunitz, who led the review for the Swedish National Audit Office. On the question of whether the government does not know with certainty whether industrial policy has the desired effect, he replied: And it's even worse than that. Because there are no reliable evaluations, you can have the illusion that you know, even though you don't really have the basis for it. He also expressed the view that many of these studies only asked companies that had received support if they themselves thought it was effective. Surprisingly, companies appreciated support. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to You heard me right. I can see how Ibrahim Baylan pats himself on the shoulder for a job well done when he hears that the companies that got free money thought it was an effective way of using tax money. However, from the Swedish National Audit Office it will be long before he gets a pat on his shoulder. Responsible for the review ended the interview with Dagens Industris Fredrik Björkman in the following way: These reports have been received by the Government Office, but no one has stopped. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I also find it surprising, and so I understand that Ibrahim Baylan chose to duck for today's industry issues, but I hope he does not duck for them now. Why has the government not put an end to the severely flawed reliability of the impact assessments on industrial policy, and will the government take action on the basis of the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-298	Mr President, I would like to The serious way of examining an evaluation is to read it thoroughly when it enters the department and analyse it, and only then will you submit comments and, in this case, also a letter to the Riksdag on the measures it intends to take. Such evaluations are valuable. The Swedish National Audit Office has this as one of its major tasks. Immediately after it has been received by the Ministry, as it had just done at the time, the serious approach is to first analyse what is stated in the report. If it's just about liking or picking party political points, you can only shoot from the hip, but I would like to work in a way that means seriously treating this type of report. When we have analysed the report at the Ministry, we will also come back with comments, both to the media and to the House, and with what measures we intend to take. I think everyone who has ever worked with such things understands that this is the most serious way of dealing with this type of report. Let us return to the policy itself and to the impact assessment. As I said in my interpellation response, we are strengthening resources for Growth Analysis precisely to enable further impact assessments. It is a measure that exists in the budget and gives them increasing resources in the coming years, starting this year. I am fully aware that the Swedish Democrats have had and continue to have the ambition to form some form of coalition with the Moderates. It is quite clear that the same rhetoric has been adopted here, namely that if you invest less in one area, it will have a better effect on impact assessment. Enterprise policy and resources are being cut back on innovation policy, while our main competitors are doing exactly the opposite. Then it is clear that the result will be worse. There will be less investment and innovation in our country. This, in turn, will lead to fewer jobs and thus loss of well-being. Mr President, I would like to We stand out in many ways. Every time an international newspaper, organization, commission, etc. makes comparisons, Sweden comes out well. This is what Sweden does because we work intensively with the business community. No, I'm not so naive as to think that every effort by definition is right or good – you have to follow them up. But you can also see that the results in many are good. I think that many people who look at this debate think that there is a rather theoretical discussion when you talk about impact assessment and when you talk about innovation in general. Let me therefore give an example of what we are doing with our industrial policy. This is a concrete example in which I myself have been involved, first as Minister of Energy and later as Minister of Enterprise. This applies to Northvolt, which is now establishing a large battery factory, Europe's largest battery factory, in northern Sweden. They met me as Minister of Energy and wanted support for a feasibility study. Of course you could reason like Tobias Andersson and say: Yes, but you can solve that yourself. But we helped each other, and today it means that they have received investment, billions of investments, which means that thousands of people will be employed in Skellefteå. It is also the effect of a nutritional policy.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-306	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Government lacks the basis for its conclusions. Since we do not have reliable impact assessments, the Minister for Economic Affairs or any other government representative cannot conclude that it is thanks to industrial policy that we have received a certain innovation, a certain industrial climate or the like. There is simply no reason to stand on. It can be pointed out that according to various measurements we have a good business environment, but it cannot be linked to public enterprise policy. There is nothing to support it – quite the contrary. In the measurements that have taken place, when you have had control groups and compared companies that have received innovation support with companies that have not received it, you have not seen any noticeable effect at all. Has it never occurred to the Government that it might be in the interest of these companies – the companies that have received aid – to state that the free money they have had had the desired effect? Then I understand that Ibrahim Baylan cannot run ahead of events and reveal what will be contained in the government's letter in this area. However, I hope that the Government can at least admit that the lack of reliability in the impact assessments of industrial policy is, firstly, a problem and, secondly, must be addressed. It would have been nice if you could have been told clearly that it needs to be done. This is known for a long time. It is now being dealt with in the debate by the Minister for Economic Affairs a bit like this investigation being in a vacuum. On the contrary, it has been clear to everyone for a number of years that there are shortcomings in our impact assessments. It's serious. It should have been fixed a long time ago. This is the view of a parliamentary majority, which has also announced it to the government. I hope that the government will be able to problematise this and answer that it will be dealt with.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-312	Mr President, I would like to When you get this kind of evaluation, you should treat it seriously, and we will. We will return in a letter to Parliament in the spring when we have analysed this report. I will now come back to the policy itself, because it is still the one that we are fundamentally discussing. There is nothing, Mr President, called free money. We have every reason to protect taxpayers' money and to use it as efficiently as possible. It is also the case that we are part of a European Union where there is a strict regulatory framework for which state aid can be granted, both for us and for the other Member States. Within this framework, we work very closely with the business community, yes, to ensure that we constantly develop our innovation power and our competitiveness to safeguard Swedish jobs and Swedish growth. One can of course say: Yes, it is a coincidence that makes the Swedish business environment, the Swedish competitiveness and the Swedish innovation ability claim well year after year. Or it may actually be that this is affected by the close collaboration that we have with the business community and with academia. At least that is the picture that exists in many other EU countries. It is against this background that both the European Union and many Member States look at Sweden and try to follow how we work, precisely in close collaboration to develop our competitiveness and thereby also safeguard Swedish jobs and Swedish growth. I can assure Tobias Andersson that we will work to improve the evaluations. And we will continue to work intensively with the Swedish business community to ensure that we are competitive and to save and develop Swedish jobs, Swedish growth and therefore also Swedish welfare.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-317	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Grubb has asked me if I understand that busing pupils from immigrant areas to schools with a very high proportion of Swedish students is beneficial to all involved students. Jörgen Grubb has also asked me whether it is my intention to introduce mandatory measures, such as quotas, in order to achieve greater equivalence between Swedish schools. The student composition at Sweden's schools has over the past 20 years become increasingly divided according to the pupils' socio-economic background. Reports from the National Board of Education and the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, among other things, show that school segregation has a negative impact on equivalence and risks impairing the ability of the school system to compensate for pupils' differing opportunities to assimilate education, which affects pupils with less favourable backgrounds the most. School segregation can also lead to stigmatisation of pupils who go to schools with less favourable socio-economic composition and have a negative impact on social cohesion in society when school is less and less a place where students with different backgrounds meet. This is a very worrying development, and school segregation must therefore be reduced. A large part of school segregation in comprehensive school is due to housing segregation, but we also know that the choice of school is a contributing factor to the increased school segregation. Research is fairly unanimous on that. The government sees this as very problematic. As both the 2015 School Commission and the OECD have pointed out, school choices need to be designed in a way that helps to reduce school segregation rather than reinforce it. The report "A more equal school – reducing school segregation and improving resource allocation" (SOU 2020:28) proposes measures to reduce school segregation through, among other things, general school elections with joint admissions and amended selection rules. The study's starting point for the school elections is that the wishes of guardians should govern school placements. If the number of places at a school is less than the number of applicants, a selection needs to be made. The investigation suggests that the principals should be able to use quota as one of several selection criteria. The aim is to achieve a more comprehensive social composition of students. Quotas as a selection basis are quite common in other parts of the world and could be an opportunity in Sweden. At the same time, the issue of quotas as a selection basis raises a number of complex issues that need to be carefully analysed. The report and comments received are now being prepared within the Government Office. Without commenting on individual cases, I can see that increasing school segregation in Swedish schools is a very serious development that must be curbed. It is my goal and that of the government to rebuild a school system that provides equal opportunities, equalises life chances and contributes to cohesion and community. All pupils should have the opportunity to develop as far as possible in school, regardless of where they live or what parents d e have. My hope is that in the future more parties in the Riksdag will support proposals aimed at counteracting school segregation so that we can remedy the inequality in Swedish schools.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-323	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Education seems almost positive about busing students to different schools in order to achieve a social democratic equivalence and think it is positive that students with Swedish parents should be responsible for the integration of immigrant students. I'm a little insecure, though. The government has set up an investigation that proposes radical divisions of schoolchildren. Regulation has been considered by quotas of pupils depending on socio-economic factors or residential areas. According to the study, this is a accurate system for ensuring equivalence in schools.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-326	I note that in his reply the Minister of Education ducks the question of whether busing pupils from immigrant areas is beneficial for all students involved. I take it that the Minister for Education knows that bushing will affect well-adapted and study-motivated Swedish students, like her party colleague Kent Pettersson, who was previously chairman of the Children's and Youth Board at Nyköping. He said: The best social environment for all students is to attend a class where as many other students as possible have Swedish as their mother tongue and highly educated parents. I'm sure we can agree with that. But you and other governments have created, through completely unregulated immigration, a situation that has continued for many years and which has made it impossible for all students to have this favourable study social environment. The Minister for Education's answer to the second question is a little more vague. According to the Social Democrats, it seems okay to group students according to their parents' education, social conditions and vulnerability. The investigation experiments here a little with words to avoid the word There is no relevant Swedish research showing that bushing or other coercive measures work to obtain a better school. However, there are examples from reality where careful follow-up has been done, including in my hometown of Malmö, made by Malmö University, then Malmö University. Mr President, I would like to After studying these examples from reality, I can tell you the following: Busing students to other schools and coercion as an integration measure has not worked so far. In 2007 they started to bus students from a segregated area in Malmö to a well-functioning school in the area of Limhamn. As a result, most of the students with Swedish-born parents fled to other schools. The school environment became messy, the level of teaching fell and the students grouped. A clear "we" and "they" were etched. So integration failed. This can be read in a full report. Do I need to say that today this school is far from as popular as it was before this project began in 2007? Another example is from Nyköping, where in 2014 they chose to close four secondary schools and move all students to a newly built main school. Of the original four schools, three had low results and a high score. Now they would mix students fairly according to the Swedish National Agency for Education's Salsa model, where students get labels based on parents' educational background, origin and financial conditions. So the social heritage of these children was pasted. After a year, 400 students fled to other schools. The result? Nowadays it is more segregated in Nyköping than it has ever been. Mr President, I would like to I repeat my question: does the Minister of Education still believe that busing pupils from immigrant areas to schools with a very high proportion of Swedish pupils is beneficial to all parties involved?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-336	Mr President, I would like to I note that it took about a minute before Jörgen Grubb was into what the Swedish Democrats call the unbridled immigration or what expression is now being used. It's fascinating. I do not think I have taken part in an interpellation debate with a Swedish democrat without those words coming up very early. I would like to think openly about some of the words that Jörgen Grubb uses. The first is, of course, the word, which Jörgen Grubb chooses for what occurs when children from different backgrounds go to the same school and in the same class. He also tells me that Swedish-born children – I think that's how he expressed himself – and fled a school because of that school's student composition. I would like to say to the Minutes of this House that I am very strongly opposed to seeing children as so dangerous, threatening and negatively charged that other children would have to flee or are affected by their mere presence. This is a way of expressing oneself about children who are not acceptable. I would also like to problematise another expression that Jörgen Grubb uses and which is also found in the interpellation that Jörgen Grubb has sent in, and that is the word. What does Jörgen Grubb mean by bushing? In large parts of Sweden, children who attend school use various forms of communication. Some bikes, some go, some ride with Mom and Dad in car, some ride bus, some ride subway and some ride commuter trains. What's bushing? I sense after listening to Jörgen Grubb that by busing he means that one would somehow force children into a bus to drive them to another school. I sense that bushing somehow has to do with some kind of forced event. But it's only a little bit that I get when I listen to Jörgen Grubb, because the fact is that bushing well in that case is something that already today occurs in Swedish school. When children who have a Swedish-born or foreign-born parent take some form of bus, commuter train, subway or other means of transport to get to their school and when children who do not go to the nearest school go a bit to get to their school – is it an expression of bushing, Jörgen Grubb? When children themselves and children's parents choose to go to a school that is a bit away – is it an expression of bushing? Are they children and students who come from so-called vulnerable areas and who take the bus to a school in a more prosperous area on their own initiative also threatening? Is it also children who are hitting their new classmates? Will the new classmates be forced to escape too? Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Grubb asked two questions. I have tried to answer the question about so-called bushing, whatever it is. With regard to the second question, on which Jörgen Grubb called for a clearer position on what I and the government think about the proposals in the investigation to which Jörgen Grubb refers, I can only reiterate what is in the interpellation response, namely that these proposals do have many international models but are not unproblematic. Work is currently under way in the Government Office. A clearer message than that, I will not leave today.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-345	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that the Minister for Education is reluctant to speak on the subject. Instead, she draws the classic racist card. That was expected. The Swedish Democrats are not against any mix of students. On the other hand, we are opposed to students with a lack of language skills being mixed with students who speak excellent Swedish and thus reduce the level of teaching. There are actually two parties here. We are also against forced mixing, which cynically uses Swedish children as airbags in difficult attempts to dampen the damage caused by this and previous governments that have conducted an unregulated immigration policy. That's what I said. Mr President, I would like to In the written answer to this interpellation, the Minister writes that all students should have the opportunity to develop as far as possible in school. We are in fact in full agreement on this. But how is this to be possible for many students when they are not given studies, when the pace of teaching is reduced and when the working environment is deteriorating for everyone in school? This is the situation where these experiments on bushing have been carried out – I think the Minister for Education understands what is meant by bushing in this context – and mandatory relocations. Unfortunately, it now continues in Trollhättan, which, like Malmö and Nyköping, is actually a social democraticly governed municipality. We must stop this before it spreads further. Your strategy to create an equal school takes the lives of the well-functioning schools. Instead, we must ensure that good schools remain good, or are getting better, and that all bad schools are good. It benefits all students. This will take time – absolutely – but we have to start now. The Swedish Democrats' school proposals, especially those concerning preparation school, studyo and work environment, will, unlike your equivalence efforts, give order and students who are well and well educated. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Education stated in his reply that an increase in school segregation in Swedish schools is a very serious development that must be curbed. Yes, it is a serious development with increased segregation not only in school but throughout our society, and it is a direct consequence of an unregulated immigration policy conducted by Anna Ekström's own party. It is Social Democracy's policy that needs to be curbed. The government itself must take the consequences of its own policy, not the children of Sweden. They bear no responsibility whatsoever in this. Mr President, I would like to I assume that the Minister for Education and I share the vision that all students should prefer to attend nearby schools. With the restrictive immigration policy of the Swedish Democrats, this would have been a reality today, but with your policy we stand where we stand. Then we have a debate on segregation, equivalence and bushing – really for nothing. Even at the time when we had an equal school – I remember it – there were socio-economic differences, which today is stated as the main reason for today's segregated school. Here I would like to remind the Minister of Education that the busing of students was not on the agenda at the time. The harsh truth is that it is not just a question of socio-economic differences, but it is a question of language barriers and great differences in values and standards that drive segregation. None of us are satisfied with this. This is the main reason why we propose that immigrant students should attend preparation school or class, and only when they are mature for the Swedish school should they start in an ordinary class. Let me be clear: You should not have the right to impair the conditions for a student to have access to knowledge in his/her conviction that he/she improves the conditions for another student. We cannot embrace the Robin Hood method of the Social Democrats on children. That would be devastating.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-355	Mr President, I would like to This time it took 40 seconds before the issue of unregulated immigration came up, but it took only ten seconds for Jörgen Grubb to claim that I had drawn a classic racist card. Mr President, I would like to In no context have I accused Jörgen Grubb of expressing himself racistly. On the other hand, I have analysed which choice of words Jörgen Grubb uses and which thought figures recur in Jörgen Grubb's written speeches. I can only say that this analysis leads Jörgen Grubb himself to raise the issue of racism, and I leave it to the listener of the debate to decide what is going on. Once again, the strong expressions are used. This time Jörgen Grubb talks about the fact that moving in or the presence of students coming from another place, another part of a city, takes the life of well-functioning schools. It's a language about students that I can't accept. I cannot accept that students who come to a Swedish school should be seen as threatening or distressing or would lead to escape for other students in Swedish school. I also note that Jörgen Grubb does not even attempt to qualify the concept of bushing. But from what Jörgen Grubb says, I can only conclude that what Jörgen Grubb thinks is that bushing is something negative. When children and pupils travel by bus to their school because of a type of admission system, it is negative and distressing and leads to flight and to the killing of schools. However, when children and pupils travel by bus to school because of a different admission system, it is all right. Mr President, I would like to These are serious questions. There are schools in Sweden where a large proportion of the students hear Swedish only in the lessons, not in the school yard. Do we want it that way? Do we want today's students to grow up and see the other students as the menacing strangers you never meet, never become friends with, never get the chance to have a conversation with? Do we really want to continue to build a society where we see children as distressing or as a cause for flight? Mr President, I would like to I may be romantic, but I'm convinced that the power of the meeting is stronger than the hate. I am convinced of the power of the meeting when children and students see each other as individuals, not as representatives of a threatening, distressing or favored group. Like Jörgen Grubb, I have read the research reports that were written when working with Sorgenfriskolan and the school in Limhamn, and I strongly oppose the one-sided picture that Jörgen Grubb gives of those schools. I can also note that the reports show that the students who came to the new school did not only receive the negative part, which Jörgen Grubb talks about – although no one can imagine that these are simple things. I can also note that the Swedish-born students who remained in the school Jörgen Grubb refers to finished school with good study results. Mr President, I would like to The issue of a cohesive school is serious and important. It's about us creating a society that stays together, but it's also about us ensuring that all children in Swedish schools get the same chance to learn a lot. That is an ambition we must not forget in this.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-362	Mr President, I would like to I want to correct the minister a little. It was about students from Kroksbäcksskolan who got to go to Linnéskolan. But it's okay! I understand that the Minister hangs up on words. She mixes them and puts completely different epithets on them than I mean. She does so deliberately and is a rhetoric on her part. It's okay – it's up to the listener to judge. I'm talking about a reality picture when students run. It is not me who is fleeing, but the students, and their parents, of course, support them. It's happening in real life. What the Minister and I want is one thing, but what is happening in reality must actually be taken into account. I've read all the evaluations and articles I've come across about the experiments. Pupils are displaced with the intention of creating an equivalent school. As I have pointed out, it has been done several times. Almost no parent is in favour of this, either in schools where pupils are moved from or in the host schools. Rather, there will be a minor rebellion with signatures and the transfer of children to other schools. This is a reality we must take seriously. Mr President, I would like to Can the Minister for Education and I not agree that coercive measures of this kind do not belong in a democratic country that safeguards the freedom of the individual? Can't the Minister of Education see risks in quotaing students? They become stigmatized, and that compromises the motivation of well-performing students. Has the Minister of Education not taken note of the results that show that segregation is rather reinforced by the proposals? Mr President, I would like to Please! Let us interrupt the experiment with mandatory quotas and compulsory busing. Social engineering may appeal to you Social Democrats, but it will be devastating for Swedish schools. Let us concentrate on making all schools good and all students can reach their full potential. Thank you for the debate.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-368	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Grubb returns to coercive measures. I would like to point out that in all school selection systems, in all school systems, we need rules for selection and admission. It is in today's system, and it will be in tomorrow's system. I find it difficult to see how coercive measures should be compatible with a selection and admission system. It is nowhere near what is being proposed in the investigation, and I can assure Jörgen Grubb that coercive measures will not occur in the systems that are being developed. Jörgen Grubb took Trollhättan as an interesting example. It is a municipality where you have had major problems with segregation, and it is a municipality that has experienced in a serious and dramatic way what it can be like when children and students see each other as enemies. In Trollhättan we have a large collaboration – I believe that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in Trollhättan that is not part of the collaboration – strive to ensure that the selection and admission system will benefit both a school where children and students learn as much as possible and a school where children and students do not grow up in different worlds. I am very pleased that the work in Trollhättan has been done in such good cooperation across the block line. There is a strong commitment to our Swedish school being both equal and focused on knowledge. That conviction exists in a great many parties. Mr President, I would like to The good home knows no privileged or retiring, no petletes and no stepchildren. There the one doesn't look down on the other... in the good home is likeness, kindness, cooperation, helpfulness. ..................................................... In the good home, children go to schools where they get to know each other as friends and not as faceless enemies and where they learn as much as possible, regardless of which school they go to.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-374	Mr President, I would like to Eric Palmqvist has asked me how the government's work is progressing in facilitating, among other things, the small gas stations in order for them to be able to carry out the investments that the new regulations introduced on 1 July 2022 provide for, and what view the government has on the effects that a large-scale closure of petrol stations in Sweden's countryside would have on the commercial service where the supply is already limited. It is the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency that makes regulations regarding environmental regulations for fuel stations in accordance with the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods. According to the regulation on cisterns with connected pipelines for flammable liquids, existing hot galvanised pipelines in soils which are not moisture-insulated may be used until 1 July 2022 without corrosion protection. This is a requirement that has been included in the Authority's regulation since 2014. I am aware that the challenges for smaller rural fuel stations may be great in terms of rules and costs. The government is therefore continuing its efforts to facilitate, among other things, the implementation of the necessary investments by small fuel stations. In this work, both national funds and the support that can be sought under the rural development programme are important. Good access to commercial services is a prerequisite for creating attractive environments for people and businesses. D is why, in 2019, the government invested more than SEK 284 million in various initiatives specifically to increase the availability of fuel and everyday goods in rural areas. In addition, the government has decided to invest SEK 50 million annually for three years to build more charging poles in those areas where charging possibilities are most lacking today, so-called white spots on the charging station map. The aim is to ensure a basic charging infrastructure throughout the country. In addition, the Government has decided on a variety of initiatives in several different policy areas to make it possible to live, work and live in Sweden's rural areas. One such example is that 39 rural municipalities have received a special state grant to support their local business work e.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is actually one of the most comprehensive interpellation responses I have received. This interpellation is about the new rules that will apply to the country's petrol stations from 1 July 2022. These are rules that, simply put, mean that all pipelines and tanks underground must be secured against rust and moisture in order to prevent spillage and environmental damage. This, regardless of political origin, may seem reasonable. Nor is that where the political line of conflict lies. But it is added that the individual station owner must at the same time pay for the clean-up of the land from old waste – due to old sins from the second half of the 20th century, when preventive environmental work may not have been at the top of the agenda – it is understood that the issue is not quite simple. The problem, Mr President, and what my interpellation is aiming at is that the measures that need to be taken at the country's service stations to meet the requirements are very costly. As an example in this debate, I can mention that the owners of a small, independent gas station in my own constituency state that the construction of their gas station is estimated to cost over SEK 21⁄2 million. Besides, it's urgent. This means that the operators who can do these jobs do not exactly stand idle and wait, which puts the gas station owners in a worse negotiating position. Full order books of the contractors do not usually mean that it is happy hour when the contracts are to be signed, and the big petrol companies are the ones that have the muscles to get at the front of the queue when it is to be rebuilt or replaced entire facilities. The situation is tough. The trade organisation Svensk Gasinhandel states that as many as 500 of the country's petrol stations are now under threat. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that many service stations in our rural areas also operate as a grocery store, pharmacy agents, postal agents, Systembolaget agents, library agents and bus stations, it is clear that the regulatory framework, which basically aims at something good, may contribute to the impoverishment of commercial services in Sweden's rural areas – something that would be extremely unfortunate, Mr President. However, the Government's response shows that she is aware that the new regulatory framework poses challenges for the country's smaller fuel stations. That's good. It is also clear that she believes that good access to commercial services is a prerequisite for creating attractive environments for people and businesses. We are in complete agreement on this. The Government also mentions in its interpellation response a number of the efforts and appropriations made by the Government to increase the availability of fuels and everyday goods in rural areas. These are, of course, welcome initiatives. What I wonder, however, Mr President, is why the EU money that is to be applied for, so-called investment aid that the Swedish Board of Agriculture manages and the county boards distribute, is surrounded by such a square set of rules that gas station owners say they cannot benefit from them. Is this something the Government knows, and is it prepared to take action to remedy it?
i-4FuZEjhAGsXku9RTPJmaGq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eric Palmqvist, for an important interpellation! I am pleased that we can begin by stating that we agree that access to commercial services is important. It's important whether we're talking about fuel stations or grocery stores, because they often fill a multifunction where they exist. They are often representatives for e.g. mail, pharmacies, Systembolaget and so on. That is why, as the interpellier confirmed in his speech, we have also made a series of efforts aimed at this particular service. We are making efforts both nationally and within the framework of what is the rural programme, i.e. the EU money referred to in the question. To answer the question that came at the end and concerned the part of the money contained in the rural development programme, I can see that it is important funds for Sweden and for this activity, not least because a very large part of the money that goes to regional development is in these programmes. However, EU rules are a challenge in all contexts, including this. Nor is it possible, as a single nation, to determine exactly how to manage, distribute or pay out this type of money. At the same time, of course, we should always strive to have as simple and good rules as possible. It has also been an important Swedish entry into the negotiations that we have had in Brussels for the new programming period of the EU's common agricultural policy, where the rural development programme is part of it. I am pleased that we came quite far with this work and got a lot of support for the Swedish position that the regulations must be designed in such a way that at national level you can have an implementation that means that you can use the money in the best way. Then there is a national responsibility in this, because it is clear that you can choose different ways to handle money. Here I will give Eric Palmqvist the right idea that within the programme period that ends this year we initially had great challenges in finding effective systems for how we would channel the money further. It was all part of the program. It was complicated and, above all, it took a very long time. There were great challenges at the Swedish Board of Agriculture to get computer systems in place that could handle this, which led to a lot of hand laying on the county boards, where many of these subsidies had to be handled manually. This affected both the green industries and this type of system. My picture, however, is that much of these initial childhood diseases have been dealt with at the end of the period. We are thus ending the period considerably better than we started it. In addition, we are now entering a new programming period, where we have the opportunity to further streamline the systems. At the same time, there is a challenge in this context given the delay in the rural development programme, which ends this year. The budgetary negotiations on the MFF took a very long time, which means that we will now have a transitional period of two years. We have chosen to deal with it in such a way that, as the main principle, we retain old rules for new money so that it does not become unnecessarily complicated, while at the same time beginning a gradual over-phase-up to what we intend to become the new strategic plan. So we are renouncing and simplifying to the extent that we can without doing anything completely new, so that there will be no double systems. Added to this is a situation where we have Corona at the moment. One might wonder why I mention this in this context. I do because it affects the budget and budget work. In addition to having an end-of-period, a new one coming and a transition period, we also have European money. So it is quite a lot of money that should be put into this system to deal with the situation and the challenges that Corona has brought to business, in particular, but also to regions.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-396	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your detailed answer. The EU-funded investment aid that I mentioned in my previous speech could, in many cases, be the prerequisite for a station owner to be able to finance the reconstruction at all – at least if it is managed in a solution-oriented way and not, as it is now, in a way that allows him to benefit from it. Mr President, I would like to Let me explain what I mean. We have already noted that the necessary renovations are costly. The fact that it is not economically justifiable for an individual small gas station owner to bear the full cost is not an unreasonable assumption. Few, if any, banks lend the amounts involved if the investment is not considered profitable. There is still a need to close down or seek a new form of financial support to pay for the reconstruction required to comply with the new environmental rules. There is, in fact, such financial support, but unfortunately it is surrounded by complicated rules. The investment aid cannot be obtained directly, but it is paid out gradually as the reconstruction process progresses. What does this mean, Mr President? Well, it means that first part of the reconstruction must be carried out so that the contractor can get away with his first invoice. Once it has been paid, the money must be requisitioned from the County Administrative Board. An investigation is then carried out at the County Administrative Board, and only after approval is part of the grant paid out. This means that it may take a long time before traders actually receive some money to finance the contract. The reality is that few station owners have the economic potential to spend so much money, and commercial banks are not interested in this type of short-term loans. As a result, we run the risk of ending up in a situation where service stations qualify for the financing aid while they lack sufficient cash to manage the first investment – this despite the fact that a sort of state guarantee has been given for the financing aid to be paid out. This procedure also poses problems for the contractor and the contractor. The contractor wants to make everything clear in one fell swoop, but if the gas station owner receives the money in stages, it will be difficult. It is my view that, of course, it is good to have searchable investment aid, but support measures are only good if they really work. Rather, when aid measures do not work, they have the opposite effect. They are more likely to provoke frustration and anger, and that, Mr President, can hardly be the purpose of this type of support. That is why my question to the Government is whether she can assure the country's troubled gas station owners and worried people in our rural areas that this kind of cumbersome handling of payments of existing aid money will be reviewed urgently in order to allow as many of the companies concerned to enjoy them as possible and whether she would like to work to ensure that the date of entry into force of the new rules is brought forward as a result of a review of how investment aid is to be managed.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-404	Mr President, I would like to I share the picture and the concern that it is problematic for very small players to obtain funding for this type of investment. I have concerns about both petrol stations and supermarkets. We have support linked to commercial services based on two or more elements: I think there are nine different support measures allocated to the rural development programme and category 19, that is, national regional aid that can be applied for. What goes to commercial service consists of a grant part, which is simple, and an investment part, which is actually larger but sometimes more problematic – not because it does not exist or because it is difficult to get money from it, but because it is difficult to spend money, to try to simplify rhetoric in this context. This is an issue that we are looking at right now. I can get a little upset and angry about the banks' attitude and attitude here. In some sense, it is safe money we are talking about. An investment has been authorised. You get coverage of up to 90% to make this type of investment. But the banks are not interested in short-term loans, because there they do not make much money. I think that the banks deserve criticism because they do not see their role in contributing to a functioning business and service points throughout the country, which both serve other business and give people the opportunity to live and live. You can be angry, but it doesn't help much. I think we should put pressure on them together and show that we think this is unreasonable. But we need to look further at the issue. That is why work is currently under way. The Swedish Agency for Growth has talked to all regions about the conditions in terms of search and other things, to ensure that we have enough money during the transition period. We set aside SEK 160 million. According to the information received by the Swedish Agency for Growth, three regions in particular believe that they will have an increased search pressure. Norrbotten, Västernorrland and Västra Götaland state this at the moment. The assessment is that the money we put in is enough. The money itself, however, is not the big problem here. It is possible to scale up or down depending on the demand, given that the political ambition is that support should be sought to deal with this and to be able to remain. Therefore, one also looks at how to deal with the problems that exist when it comes to taking part in the aid, linked to what the regulatory framework looks like. The rural development programme does not allow direct payments to the business community or payments in advance for something that has not been carried out. That is why we are looking at the possibility of, for example, managing investment loans, which are also a form of support linked to these schemes, and if this could be better designed and more harmonised with investment support so that it could help traders. You look at being able to divide the payments and periods in such a way that it fits with how entrepreneurs choose to do the job, for example, and on the possibility of having cap amounts for how much can be given in loans in relation to each individual trader. And you look at the possibility of using other players and having a dialogue with the players that exist alongside the classic big banks. Firstly, we may be talking about Almi, but it may also be about microphones and other things, which are active financiers with an interest in ensuring that we have a living countryside. There is therefore work going on in connection with this.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-414	Mr President, I would like to That I am turning for Swedish countryside is not only because I live there – I already did that when I lived in central Malmö. However, I believe in interaction between city and country rather than conflict between them. Unfortunately, more and more people living outside the metropolitan areas experience rigidly treated by politics. It is common for me to feel that the frustration is so massive that I can almost touch it when I meet voters outside the big cities. It is often a feeling that one is first punished financially for choosing to live or run businesses in rural areas and then compensated by various subsidies rather than, as it should be, being given reasonable conditions from the outset. There are very busy people in Sweden's countryside and people who with the right conditions can and want to keep the whole country alive. However, one of the prerequisites for this is that the commercial service works throughout the country. There, as I mentioned earlier in this debate, the petrol stations or the country merchants are one of the most important cornerstones. I am grateful that the Government seems to share my view on this issue and claim to be aware of the vulnerable situation of the smaller independent fuel stations – although I believe that there are elements of the policy of the Government of the State Council which has a direct counterproductive impact on the possibilities of living and working in Sweden's rural areas. However, this is a completely different debate that we do not have time for here today. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to emphasise that my expectation of the Government is that she will continue to work for the new environmental rules that we are now debating not to have the negative consequences that the trade organisation is warning of and that she will work for the deadline for petrol stations to be postponed until there is a solution to the problem.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-420	Mr President, I would like to Once again, thank you, Erik Palmqvist, for an important debate! We need to talk much more about rural issues politically, and we need to ensure that we have a rural perspective that clearly permeates all policy areas. I believe that this is a challenge that we must face up to jointly in all parties. With regard to the new environmental rules and their timing – I did not have time to answer the question in my previous speech, and it was mentioned here again – I can see that this is a provision that has been in place since 2014. So it has had six and a half years to prepare for these. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, which has mapped the work of the regions and the demand for support from traders, demand has been very low. There is reason to believe that it will increase, given that an end date will soon come. That's why we're doing this work. We ensure that there is money during the transitional period. We look at how to help them make sure they can take part of the money. But moving the date forward is not my responsibility, because it is in another department. Then, unfortunately, there is reason to believe that, in that case, the problem would only be put in front of it. At some point there will be an end date for this if it is not thought that this is an inappropriate measure to take. But I understand that neither I nor Erik Palmqvist actually think so. It is about ensuring that we have safe stations, and that is basically a good thing. Having said that, this is an important issue, and the question of the survival of the countryside is greater than that. It is about ensuring that we have money for regions and municipalities, that there are good conditions for business development and so on. And we take a broad approach to this. I am pleased to belong to a government that has put these issues on the agenda. They haven't been there for a very long time before this government.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-427	Mr President, I would like to Sara Gille has asked me whether I will take into account children's rights to form an opinion on religious issues and to what extent the government believes that parents' religion and culture are allowed to govern a child's life in the further handling of the report on the Convention on the Rights of the Child (SOU 2020:63). Furthermore, the interpellant asks me if I share the investigation's assessment of how Article 14(3) on the freedom to practice their religion or belief should be incorporated into Swedish law and the investigation's conclusion that Swedish legislation and practice are consistent with the meaning of Article 14, that children have the right to practice any religion they want or none at all. The fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law is a historic step forward for children's rights and helps to make children's rights visible and create the conditions for a child rights-based approach in all activities. This also means that the role of the child as a legal entity with its own specific rights is clarified. It can thus be expected to contribute to a greater focus on the child's situations. The children's convention investigation has done a survey of how Swedish legislation and practice comply with the rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The commission of the investigation has not included any proposals. The assessment carried out by the study aims to provide support in the further work on the transformation of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in various areas of law. The conclusions of the Child Convention investigation will be an important basis for the government in our continued efforts to ensure that Sweden complies with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The report of the inquiry covers many different areas of law and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The rights of the Convention are interrelated and should be interpreted in relation to each other as a whole. All children must have their rights satisfied. Freedom of religion is one of the rights deriving from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The child's right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion shall be respected. The freedom to practise one's religion under the Convention on the Rights of the Child can only be subject to such restrictions as are prescribed by law and necessary to protect public morality or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. Children have the right to be protected against all forms of violence and exploitation, even when they are cared for by their parents, which is a right that must never be ignored. Furthermore, freedom of religion is constitutionally protected in the form of government and is also protected in the European Convention. It follows from the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the child must be given the opportunity to express his or her views on religious matters. B the Convention also expresses the right of children to their private lives, which means that children cannot be forced to share their thoughts or be forced to confess their religion, faith or other beliefs. All in all, these rights constitute a framework for dealing with the fact that it is the child himself who chooses what it wants or does not want to express. For the government, strengthening children's rights and combating violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression, is a top priority.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-436	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the long answer I have received! In the report The Convention on the Rights of the Child and Swedish Law, SOU 2020:63, you can read about the child's right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion in Article 14. Among other things, articles that support the child's right to adopt and practice the religion of his parents can be read. The Swedish National Agency for Education's legal guidance also shows that clothing is normally determined by the individual himself. At the same time as the Government stands here and pronounces these fine sentences that all children have the right to have their rights satisfied and that it is extremely important for the Government to strengthen children's rights and to combat all forms of violence against children, including honour-related violence and oppression, it occurs in Sweden that children may not have their own will and faith but are ultimately governed by their relatives. In many parts of the country, children are forced to wear a veil or niqab at an early age. The best interests of the child must come first, and no faith must be forced upon another person. Mr President, I would like to Freedom of religion and faith is a fundamental right for every human being. This human right applies equally to all people, no matter who they are, where they live, what age, gender, race or ethnicity they have and what they believe or do not believe. The Convention on the Rights of the Child must not turn a blind eye to children's religion. The basic idea of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is that all children have the same rights and equal value. All children have the right to have their basic needs met. Every child has the right to be protected against abuse and exploitation. Every child has the right to express his or her opinion and be respected. Mr President, I would like to For me, it's important that children are allowed to be children and not be forced to live a life they don't want.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-444	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely true that we have children in Sweden who are going extremely badly. Many children live under honour-related violence and oppression. We have discussed statistics earlier here in Parliament, and I usually mention that an estimated 100 000 young people in Sweden live under honour-related violence and oppression. There may also be a large number of darkness. These statistics make it clear that there are many children outside this beautiful building who struggle daily and with every breath to get through their everyday lives. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is clear. Article 19 obliges each State to protect children from any form of physical or psychological violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, abuse and exploitation including sexual abuse. We can never compromise on this right. For me, it is quite simple when it comes to freedom of religion and the issue of violence against children. Freedom of religion is a human right, but the right not to be subjected to violence is just as clear. For me, these rights are not opposed to each other. Freedom of religion can never be used as a reason for violence against children. Both of these rights apply, but no right in the world can be used as a reason for exercising violence against a child. Violence against children is not accepted. Point. That is the government's clear position on the matter.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-448	Mr President, I would like to I am a little surprised that the Government is constantly presenting old figures. The Swedish democrats have pushed the question of a veiled ban in several parts of the country. All credit to those who stand up for equality for real, and all credit to those who fight for women and children not to be sexualized – all while our so-called feminist government closes its eyes. The fact that children go to church on a Sunday is not the same as the fact that a child is forced to live his whole life with a veil on his face, a curtain that is oppressive. Mr President, I would like to Imagine what it must be like for a young child who is forced to live by his parents'faith. Imagine what it must be like to be forced to hide one's face because of the parents'faith. To be forced to grow up in this way is oppression and contributes to children experiencing mental illness. Mr President, I would like to I myself have experience of being forced on a religion I have not chosen. In the end, you don't know who you are or what you think and think. You lose yourself because you have to live a life that someone else has chosen for you. It is terrible and should not have to happen to anyone, especially children. We must respect the child's right to his or her own freedom of thought, conscience and religion. Sweden signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990. It states that children have the right to practice any religion they want or none at all. But that is not true when the child's parents force the religion they consider to be right. Honorary oppression is nothing new in Sweden, but unfortunately the problem escalates. The government needs to clarify what Article 14 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child specifically means in terms of both the right to faith and the right to not believe. The right to religion should also include the right to avoid religion. Mr President, I would like to Is it really religious freedom when parents do not allow children to bathe with other children because of the child's sex or when the child is forced to wear a veil or niqab? No individual should be forced to wear a veil or a niqab against his will. No individual should be forced to believe in a religion that you do not want to believe in. Of course, this should also apply to children. But this is not the case in the Red-Green Government's Sweden. Crimes in the name of so - called honor are harmful practices and are based on discrimination and control of another individual. During the current pandemic we see how people have trouble wearing masks for just a few hours. How, then, can the government think that girls find it nice to have their face covered now and throughout their lives?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-461	Mr President, I would like to Force is never okay. Point. It's never okay to force a garment on another human being. We can never accept that. Society generally needs to listen more to the children. Freedom of religion is clear that one has the right to a faith but also the right not to believe. That also applies to children. Children have the right not to practice a religion and the right to make their voice heard. It is important to constantly combat honour-related violence and repression because that is the basis for girls and women not being allowed to decide their own lives. This work should continue vigorously and does not run counter to freedom of religion because freedom of religion can never be used as a reason for exercising oppression and violence against a child. It is clear that we do not accept violence. I do not believe that a ban on veils is the right way to go. The starting point is that girls and women should decide for themselves what they are wearing. Women should also be able to feel safe in the public room no matter what clothing they wear. That's how we know it's not today. We know that there are women who feel fear and fear of being subjected to, for example, hate crimes and discrimination if they wear a veil. Again, coercion is never okay. If preschool or school is concerned that a child is ill, the social services will be contacted and a report of concern will be submitted. It is important for society to know that children are harmed and to be able to take action. Not least, social services have an important responsibility to provide support and assistance to, among others, girls who are subjected to honour-related violence and hatred. We politicians must take responsibility for providing resources, not least for the work of social services. It is also important to invest in the police so that serious crimes can be investigated. We must also take responsibility for the form of legislation. We have now tightened up legislation on a number of points regarding honour-related violence and contempt, for example, with a penalty base if there is an honorary motive in a crime. It is a clear signal on the part of society that we do not accept this violence. There are also new laws in place to prevent, for example, children from being taken abroad to be married away or subjected to forced marriages. This struggle and this work must continue. We have a long way to go before every child can grow up in safety, make his own decisions and avoid harmful culture of honor. We will vigorously continue this work, because it is an enormous priority.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-469	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that the Government does not see the error of ridicule as she is actually part of a government whose representatives carried a veil in the dictatorship of Iran. We need to secure the right for the individual to make his or her own life choices. Guiding your child is not the same as forcing your child to wear a veil and then sending it to school. The best interests of the child must come first in all decisions and actions concerning the child. Children should not only have the right but also the opportunity to find their own faith but also the right to avoid faith, if they want to. That women should cover their bodies and cover themselves with a veil or a niqab is a women's oppression that spreads across the world, not least in Sweden. This is, in fact, one of the biggest gender equality problems in our country today. While we have our so-called feminist government, which claims to stand up for women's rights and equality, we see how children and women are subjected to this oppression. That small children would choose to wear the veil of free will is absurd. Instead, it is a question of a pressure of honour that we must put an end to, a oppression of honour that a real feminist government would have seen but which the current government does not see. Why are the government parties always those who go up to the fight for parents to approve of their young girls? We constantly see in Sweden's municipalities how the red-greens in the name of religion defend opinion and prevent effective measures such as veiling in school.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-473	Mr President, I would like to I think it is an absurd claim that we are defending oppression and violence. It has been crystal clear from day one to the government that we do not accept honour-related violence and oppression. We will continue to deliver reforms to take steps to combat oppression. We will not stop in this work, and we have made a variety of efforts to strengthen it and have also been extremely clear that we do not accept the violence. I will continue to pursue this work together with the government and with the Center Party and the Liberals, who also have a great deal of commitment on these issues. As I have said earlier in the speaker's chair, many parties have a great deal of commitment to combating honour-related violence and repression. I feel that this is something that provides security, and I am pleased that we have a commitment to the fact that we do not accept the violence. What we then need to do is get action in place on what to do to combat honour-related violence and oppression. I and the Member of Parliament have been talking about this before. I welcome all the proposals relating to combating oppression. It is important to have with you in your work that there are women in Sweden today who are afraid to go out in the veil. It is also extremely important that all women in Sweden should be able to feel safe on the bus, in the store and in the public room. I think it is also important to mention this in this context. I would like to conclude once again that coercion is not okay. Girls should decide for themselves how they want to live their lives and how to dress. This is not the case in Sweden today, and we are all aware of that. What we need to discuss is what we do about it.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-477	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if the government shares the view of the Children's Convention investigation on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to what extent there is a need to change how parents should be heard in future, in relation to the child being heard, in family law matters. He has also asked what measures the government intends to take to prevent increased problems of parenting arising as a result of the child's view being more decisive. Finally, he has asked how the government intends to prevent erosion of the parental role in relation to the child's will to decide on enforcement in family law cases. The fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law is a historic step forward for children's rights and contributes to the visibility of children's rights and create the conditions for a child-right-based approach in all public activities. They also mean that the role of the child as a legal entity with its own specific rights is clarified and can thus be expected to contribute to a greater focus on the child in the situations that apply to the child. At the same time, the transformation work needs to continue and become more systematic. The children's convention investigation has done a survey of how Swedish legislation and practice comply with the rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The study's assessment is that Swedish legislation and practice are largely in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. At the same time, however, the investigation has found some inconsistencies between the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Swedish legislation and practice. The study also points out that although legislation is in itself compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, there may be a need to further clarify some provisions. The investigation has been tasked with explaining in particular how the provisions on the best interests of the child and the right of the child to express his or her views and to have them taken into account are interpreted in practical application and how the best interests of the child relate to other interests to be taken into account. The investigation finds that the provisions have not been fully implemented in certain areas of law. The commission of the investigation has not included any proposals. The assessment carried out by the study aims to provide support in the further work on the transformation of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in various areas of law. The report will be an important basis for the government in our continued work to ensure that Sweden complies with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The child's guardian is the primary bearer of responsibility towards the child, and they have a far-reaching responsibility for the child. This responsibility for care is also clearly included in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as in the introduction and in certain articles. More recently, data have shown that a strong focus on parental rights can pose major problems for children in various forms of vulnerability, such as children who are not helped by social services because parents say no. Today's legislation means that it is difficult for social services to act if parents oppose it; it is then necessary that the conditions for compulsory care are met. The aim of child rights policy is to respect children and young people and to provide opportunities for development and security, as well as participation and influence. This objective is based, inter alia, on the commitments made by Sweden by ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child and aims to promote and protect the rights and interests of the child in society. The parental code's rules on custody, housing and association have been examined by the 2014 custody inquiry. The study makes the assessment that the reform of the regulatory framework carried out in 2006 has been successful in several respects but that there is room for improvement. Among other things, it is proposed to clarify the right of the child to information and the right to express his or her views freely and to have them taken into account. The report is being prepared in the Government Office.
i-MdYgmV4rMZf1988ufy8FeS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Lindhagen, for your answer! There are many beautiful words but very little concrete about children's rights and the parenting role in general. I fully share the view of the parents as primary bearers of responsibility towards the child and those who are to take care of the child. However, Åsa Lindhagen gives very double signals on this point, especially since Åsa Lindhagen was the one who presented the government's position in the media when a new investigation was set up last autumn, this time about introducing social parents into the parental code and about making the parental code gender neutral. It is an investigation that unfortunately lacks guidelines on how to strengthen children's right to their real parents, even though one was aware of the problem. The report on the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (SOU 2020:63) pointed out precisely the problem of children's rights to both their parents. Children have different rights to their father, depending on whether their parents are married or not. Rather, children only have a natural right to their father if their parents are married. Otherwise, the child may hope for a kindness from the mother in order to be entitled to his own father. This very fact, that children have different rights to their parents, may also be contrary to EU law and the rules on discrimination on the grounds of sex, as the child's right to his or her parents is protected only if the child's parents happen to be married to each other. If one now seriously believes that the parents are primarily responsible and should also take care responsibility, surely the most important thing must be that the child is given the right to his or her parents in the first place, as is also pointed out in the investigation on page 767 if it is so that the government finds it difficult to find it. Other problems identified in the investigation are that there is a view among the authorities concerned that younger children cannot or should not express their views. This means that children's rights do not apply in practice. You need methodology to listen to even young children. Many officials find it difficult to talk to children. This seems to mean that it is avoided or that children are not taken seriously. Methods and directives need to be clearer in terms of how to communicate with children. Government officials are uncertain about the interpretation and application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This, of course, does not affect its interpretation or misinterpretation. This needs to be corrected. There are resource shortages. This means that children are not listened to and that children's rights will be different in different places in the country and for different children. Children's rights therefore fall. This must be corrected in order for children's rights to be equal for all. There is a lack of synergy between the parties concerned. This means that important things concerning children fall between the chairs, are not pursued, misunderstood or otherwise influenced so that children's rights fall. It may seem a little slow to think now, one year after the Convention on the Rights of the Child came into force as a law, about how to put it into practice. This should, of course, have been done before the Convention on the Rights of the Child became law, as my party pointed out at the time. We even voted against because we wanted the intentions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be incorporated into the laws governing our society. Unfortunately, our motion then did not win.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-498	Mr President, I would like to I think it says very much that they make positions and vote against the Convention on the Rights of the Child as Swedish law. What the honourable Member last points out here about the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in existing legislation has been the strategy for 30 years. Of course, this work will continue. We need further transformation while now incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We did not see a revolution for children's rights from one day to another, between New Year's Eve 2019 and 1 January 2020. But my hope and conviction is that this will make a big difference for children in Sweden in the long term. I think there will be more discussions, as we have already seen before the Convention on the Rights of the Child would become Swedish law and after it became so, about what the Convention on the Rights of the Child means to us in our operations, in our municipality, in our social office, in our school, in urban planning in our municipality and in health care. What do we need to do to strengthen children's rights? I believe that this is extremely important in order to take steps forward. What the Member of Parliament points out about children's own voices – Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, one of the four portal paragraphs on the right of children to make their voices heard – is a crucial element in strengthening children's rights. It is an issue that is a right under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also a question of quality, that we on the part of society should do the best possible work for the children we are for. For example, we will ensure that children have a secure situation in their family regardless of the family's appearance. And we will of course have legislation that in 2021, which we are now in, takes into account that families in Sweden look different and that children's best is always in focus. There we have a job to do in Sweden, because we see that the best interests of the children are not always given priority. When we try to build a better society, the starting point must be to ensure that children's rights are always met and that children's best interests come first. That is not always the case today. There's a job to do.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-502	Mr President, I would like to That the best interests of children should always come first, everyone agrees. We have agreed on this since the signing of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and probably long before then. This means that children should also have more say. However, when introducing such a change that the child's own perception should have a greater impact, you also need to think a little bit about how to avoid children then being subjected to pressure and influence. One problem is always to know what is really the child's own opinion, especially when it comes to younger children. And perhaps especially in connection with custody disputes, there is a problem with the role of the child's own opinion. Children are individuals. They have their own opinions, as do we all. Their beliefs are, of course, based on both the things they experience and the things they hear or see, just like for all of us. However, children are in an addiction situation that makes them more vulnerable to those who want to influence their beliefs. How this should be dealt with when the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now a law should of course be able to respond to those responsible for the implementation of the law. The problem is already present but, of course, is exacerbated by the introduction of the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law, on top of the existing law. Here, too, I think that my party's path has been preferable, namely that it should be made clear in the laws that have already existed how the intentions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are to be interpreted. Now they just put it straight on top and didn't really tell any authority exactly how to interpret it. It is far more legal to deal with the issue by simply incorporating it into the existing laws. One can, of course, ask why the government chose to do this backwards, that is, first to introduce the law and then to consider which laws need to be amended. I believe that this is a matter of placard politics and an attempt to demonstrate a capacity for action that one might not really know. We have now come to the conclusion that the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires several legislative changes in order to work. Unfortunately, the government seems totally unwilling to make some of these changes, such as the one I have previously mentioned about children's rights to both their parents. Åsa Lindhagen mentioned earlier the custody investigation 2014, See the child! It was an investigation that I had the honour to participate in during my first years in the Riksdag. If the government really wanted to show momentum, it could have been happy to introduce the proposals that we came up with there. I have asked several times why this introduction is delayed. Furthermore, there are ready-made proposals which have strong support in this House and which would facilitate many custody disputes. Most recently, Morgan Johansson has promised to come back to this this spring. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to leave these proposals year after year. The 2014 proposal of the care inquiry has still not been implemented. That's a lot of years, especially in a child's life. However, I choose not to go into more detail on the proposals in the investigation See the child! Today, on the one hand, because I do not have time for it and on the other, because I have raised it in other debates.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-511	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important to be clear that we will have to continue working to see what changes we need to make in Swedish legislation in order to constantly strengthen the situation of children. It is not against the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law. I have a history in the children's rights movement for many years. For me, it is very strange to think that this would be placard politics, because I have been convinced for over a decade that this is the right thing to do. It is also my conviction that this will not be a revolution and the only thing we need to do. But it's the beginning of a revolution. We need to work to strengthen the perspective of children's rights in our operations so that it really permeates the operations. It is both a matter of legislation and of culture, views, perspectives and values, where children's rights must weigh more heavily. There is not a magic wand that can be waved in order for us to then have the child rights perspective implemented, but it requires active and urgent work with, for example, a guide that has been developed and that the Children's Ombudsman has a mission to disseminate in terms of how to interpret the Convention on the Rights of the Child that has now become law. The Ombudsman for Children also has the task of working with a knowledge transfer. This has been going on for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become law in order to have a better preparation for what it means, but it also continues after the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law because this is a work that takes time. What does it mean that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become law for me as an individual employee in my own social office? These are extremely important issues that are currently being discussed around Sweden – in municipalities, in regions, in government agencies and in individual businesses – and which I believe will make a big difference for children in the long term. The work of the Ombudsman for Children to strengthen children's own knowledge of their rights is also a crucial part. Children need to know for themselves what their rights are. Then, as I said, strengthening children's own voices is an extremely important issue. It is absolutely crucial when it comes to children who live in vulnerability and have difficulties in different ways, and it is those children I feel most strongly about. I think there are many of us who are affected when children are having a difficult time. It is very important to also prioritise the activities of the social services – that as a municipal politician, you should contribute resources to the social services. You need to give social secretaries the opportunity to meet each individual child and have individual conversations with children where they listen to the children's voices. We know that social services do this far too little. There is a political responsibility to take on this. It is about ensuring that social services, and not least child and youth services, have enough resources to have time to meet the child. You should have time for individual calls. Social services should of course be professionals at talking to children and have the knowledge to assess the child's situation. Children who are in custody disputes can have an extremely tough time, and a crucial part of that is of course social services employees, who work to meet children and have knowledge of how to make judgments. It is extremely important to always put children's right to security and protection first in this work. It must take precedence over parents' right to their children. There is nothing black or white about what is right for children in general, but it is an assessment that must be made in each individual case and for each individual child.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-518	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I hope that Åsa Lindhagen will be right when it comes to a lot of what she says. I would like to return to social services in my next interpellation debate, which will take place later today. As far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, it has now been a law for over a year. Even before then, it was in fact a convention that we were obliged to comply with, and it is very much in force. It is clear, however, that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has affected very little of the activities so far. The activities that should have been affected during the year have not changed in any way. The study carried out on the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child shows that although the law works in many places, it worked there even before it became a law. However, where the Convention on the Rights of the Child did not work before it was introduced, it still does not work. Interpreting problems, lack of directives and lack of resources are part of what has been identified as a reason why the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law does not work. It is often chosen to comply with previous laws, simply because those laws are still in force. It is also highly unclear how to deal with the matter when the intentions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child conflict with other legislation, since the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not written as a legal text. It was precisely this that my party opposed when the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted as a law: since the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not written as a legal text, it will not function as a law in Sweden in the way that it is thought to do when you sit and read the text. Therefore, the laws must be constantly rewritten so that they work against the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We would have saved a year or two if we had started with this – if we had done what my party proposed – instead of simply introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-523	Mr President, I would like to As I said, these questions do not stand against each other. We shall continue to change the legislation; there is a great need for it. A very important issue that I would like to raise and that I feel incredibly strongly about with my municipal background – I was responsible for social services in Stockholm City – is that we need to give social services more opportunities to make contributions for children even when parents say no. I think this is a very typical example of situations where children's rights are not given priority when parents' right to decide over their children takes precedence over children's right to security and protection. It is clear to me that children's rights must be given priority. There, the National Board of Health and Welfare now has a mission to produce legislative proposals for how we can increase the opportunities for social services to make contributions even when parents say no. We can't let those kids down. I also think it is fantastic that we are standing here in Parliament talking about children's rights. How can we strengthen children's situation in Sweden? What else do we need to do? How do we press in politics for stronger legislation to protect children? What is sad is the terrible experiences that children have and that adults in our society carry with them from their childhood. It is about situations where we have not been able to protect children and where we have a responsibility from the political side. We have this debate in Sweden, and I hope it will live. I hope that there will be a strong opposition and constant pressure on us in the government to deliver more for children and young people. We are not doing enough in Sweden today. We need to do more to protect children and young people. Every child in this society should be able to live and grow up in safety.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-527	Mr President, I would like to Sara Gille has asked me whether I intend to work towards a mapping of the incidence of genital mutilation and child marriage in Sweden and whether I intend to promote increased support for those affected in order to avoid genital mutilation and child marriage in Sweden, and if so how. According to a report published by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare in 2015, the number of girls and women who have been vaccinated in Sweden was estimated to be approximately 38,000 in 2012. Of these, 7 400 were aged under 18. The estimate is based on how many people live in Sweden and originate in countries where genital mutilation of girls and women is common. Since then, conditions have improved somewhat as a new diagnostic code for women who are sexually grafted and seek care that is not related to pregnancy was introduced by the WHO on 1 January 2015. Previously, genital mutilation was recorded mainly in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. In 2018, the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned by the Government to take stock of the care offered to girls and women who have been subjected to genital mutilation and to analyse and assess the extent to which care is equal between regions. The interim report submitted in March 2020 revealed that the number of girls and women who have applied for care and been newly diagnosed with a diagnosis code related to genital mutilation has increased steadily between 2012 and 2018 in almost all healthcare regions. This increase may be due to the introduction of the new code and to the fact that health professionals have improved in the registration of di a gnos codes. Another explanation may be that women and girls who have been exposed to genital mutilation seek treatment to a greater extent than before. It is positive that there are now increased opportunities to register exposure to genital mutilation in contact with healthcare, but not all vulnerable people are looking for care. Therefore, other methods are also needed to identify the incidence of genital mutilation. More knowledge is needed when it comes to children being abducted. According to a survey carried out in 2020 by the National Competence Team against Honorary Violence and Suppression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County, many municipalities lack knowledge of people who have been removed from the country in an honorary context. Of 192 municipalities, 43 reported that in 2019 they knew a total of 172 children who were or were suspected to be in this situation. In 2018, the Government initiated a two-year initiative to further strengthen consular support in the area of family conflict, with a particular focus on child and forced marriages. From 2020 onwards, the initiative was incorporated into the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' regular consular activities. The strengthened capacity of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has enabled a more degraded statistics on data concerning, among other things, the risk of forced marriages to be produced on consular matters handled by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs abroad. Such broken-down statistics for 2018 and 2019 are already available and will also be produced for 2020 at the beginning of this year. Today there are national criminal statistics on certain crimes typically related to honour. There are also surveys conducted by the major cities Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö in collaboration with Örebro University in order to investigate the extent and nature of honour-related violence and oppression in the cities, and in Uppsala a survey of honor-related violence and oppression was carried out among young people in 2018. The Government has also recently decided to support the Foundation General Barnhuset's work in preparing a new national mapping of violence against children. The survey contains questions about serious limitations in young people's lives, such as the possibility of choosing one's own future partner. However, that is not enough. The extent of honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden must be assessed more reliably over time. Statistics are important for increasing knowledge and for assessing the needs and effectiveness of actions in this area. The Government proposes in the budget bill for 2021 the establishment of a permanent national centre of competence against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County. It will be part of the Centre's work to regularly investigate the extent of honorary violence in Sweden. On the question of whether I intend to promote greater support for those affected in order to avoid genital mutilation and child marriage in Sweden, and if so, how, I would like to emphasise the following. The Government decided in 2016 on a national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. The Government also decided in 2018 on an action plan against genital mutilation of girls and women. In the context of the Action Plan, mandates were given to several different authorities. Among other things, the Gender Equality Agency was commissioned on effective ways of working and methods of disseminating information about genital mutilation of girls and women. This assignment was presented on 18 December 2020, and the Gender Equality Agency has been tasked with continuing the work in progress in the regulation letter for 2021. The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare is to support the development of work in the field of health care with men's violence against women. This includes developing knowledge support and developing methods for assessing support needs and the risk of repeated violence in honor context. On 1 July this year, a new crime, child marriage crimes, was introduced, which can give prisons a maximum of four years and a new tool, an exit ban, to protect children from being taken abroad for the purpose of child marriage or to perform sexual mutilation. The Government has recently decided on a mission to the National Competence Team against Honorary Violence and Suppression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County, the Victims Agency, Linköping University and the National Knowledge Centre Barnafrid, the Police Authority, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Prosecution Authority to jointly implement efforts to promote the application of the new provisions against honor-related crime in 2020 – 2022. Furthermore, the government has recently decided that the county boards' mission to combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression should be permanent. From 2021 onwards, they will receive SEK 100 million per year. Linked to this, work continues to develop regional resource centres to combat honour-related violence and repression. For this purpose, an additional SEK 10 million will be allocated to the county administrative boards during 2021. The tasks of the National Centre of Excellence against Honorary Violence and Suppression, which the Government intends to establish at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County, will include supporting municipalities and regions in their work on identifying the occurrence of honour violence and planning activities, as well as introducing, monitoring and evaluating quality assured practices and methods for preventing honorary violence and providing support to individuals exposed. The Government also intends to instruct a special investigator shortly to develop a national strategy against violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. These issues are high priority for the government and will continue to be so.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-542	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government that this is not enough. Genital mutilation and child marriage is something that unfortunately increases around the world and also in Sweden with the extensive migration that has taken place in recent years. Aid organisations have also warned that genital mutilation and child marriage are increasing internationally due to the current coronapdemine. One major reason for this is the school closures and the isolation that have taken place. This further impairs girls' rights as the school for them has served as a shelter from the home. The girls who live under these medieval customs, which deviate from Swedish standards, are therefore in danger of being in an even greater vulnerability when the school acted as a protection. There is improved legislation in Sweden, but risks of not least unofficial child marriage remain. These risks are reinforced by the isolation caused by the Corona – this can be pointed out many times. Our so-called feminist government often speaks of equal society and also says, as the Government did here, that these issues are high priorities for the government. Nevertheless, we can read different types of reports that indicate that the number of children who are sexually grafted and the number of child marriages and unofficial child marriages has increased over the past year. This means that the gender equality and the type of child rights that our government is talking about have been reduced. The rights of the child have been reduced, which means a great failure and a huge betrayal of the poor vulnerable children and women who are suffering. Madam President, I would like Of course, I am pleased, who have a burning urge to fight honour violence and oppression, that the government is now actually doing some things. But that's not enough. The existence today of national criminal statistics on certain crimes that are typically honour-related is certainly a step in the right direction, but this applies only to certain offences. The figures mentioned by the Government are terrible, not only for the large amount but also because they are old. I quote the Minister of State: a report published by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare in 2015 estimated the number of women and girls who had sex in Sweden to be approximately 38,000. This is also not a reliable figure; it is an estimate. Madam President, I would like How can we overcome honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden if we do not really know the number that has been affected? How can we support those who have been affected if we do not know who is actually exposed? We need reliable national statistics on all forms of honour-related violence and repression, but we also need education and support, as well as harsher penalties and expulsions for those who cannot abide by our rules and laws. As for children who are abducted, it is frightening that there are no statistics on it either. Children can disappear during holidays, when the children should actually enjoy their leave, and then not even be missing. Madam President, I would like It is terrible that many municipalities today lack knowledge of people who have been taken out of the country in an honorary context. I therefore wonder how the Government and the Government view the risks of the increase in genital mutilation and child marriage or marriage-like conditions in Sweden during the current epidemic and that it has taken so long.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-553	Madam President, I would like A very clear starting point for me when I was a municipal politician was that we need statistics on the situation regarding honour-related violence and oppression. But we do not need statistics to know that we need to act. We know that we have these problems of honour-related violence and oppression. We cannot wait for figures to take measures to provide protection and support to victims or to take measures to prevent exposure from occurring at all. We have to work on both fronts at the same time. The decision taken by the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, to establish the national competence team at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, which is to become a national competence centre, is extremely important. Among other things, they will have the task of regularly investigating the extent of honor-related violence and oppression in Sweden. It is, of course, important to know what the situation is like in society. It is also important for the social welfare board in each municipality to, in accordance with the statutory task of being familiar with the living conditions in each municipality, identify the existence of honor-related violence and oppression. I think there are many of us who have been strongly affected by the fact that, as the honourable Member describes, there are children who, for example, have gone on summer holidays and have not returned. Nor do we know how many children they are. That's where we don't measure up. Every child who is taken abroad for genital mutilation or to be married away against his will – there are also upbringing trips where not least boys get very bad – is a child too much. We have permanently commissioned the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to work with doing what you can to bring the children back to Sweden again. But the most important thing we can do is to prevent them from being taken out of the country at all. We need more statistics on the situation. We also need to work on support for those who are victims of genital mutilation. There it is, as with all violence, that the number of darkness will decrease as we increase support efforts and opportunities to seek help. This is exactly the type of activity where we will not see that there are fewer vulnerable when we deploy support, but we will see that there are more vulnerable because we reach more vulnerable people. That's exactly what we need to do. It is very important that the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare is both to look at the situation and to come back with proposals as to what we can take step forward to strengthen the care of women and girls who have been subjected to genital mutilation. What else do we need to do to provide support and help? The Gender Equality Agency also has a mission, which has now been extended, to see how we can work with attitude and behavioral changes in terms of genital mutilation. Preventing and working with preventive work and preventing girls and women from being exposed to this at all is also crucial in this work. Every time we can give support to a girl or a woman in this country who has been subjected to genital mutilation, there is a profit. Every time we can prevent a girl from being subjected to genital mutilation, it's a win, because this means terrible violence.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-562	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Government knows that the repression of honour and violence exist, but it is not enough just to know, but something must also happen. The Government Act on Child Marriage Crime, which was introduced on 1 July 2020, states that imprisonment can be given for a maximum of four years in the event of a child marriage. Aren't the kids worth more than that? It is a very low penalty compared with, for example, a rape of an adult. Rather, the minimum penalty should be four years. All these investigations and all the statistics and collaboration must be backed up by proper criminal law in order to ensure that when the perpetrators are identified they can be removed from society for a long time so that it becomes a warning example for others. Madam President, I would like It is not that the crimes of honour are something new in Sweden, and they do not decrease directly in number. It is clear proof that the penalties are too low and not sufficiently dissuasive. A child is an individual who is dependent on an adult. It's a person who trusts an adult and can't defend himself. Sexual mutilation of a child, which means a great pain and, in the worst case, even death for the child, is a terrible crime. To force someone to marry you is a terrible crime. To force the child to commit sexual acts is a terrible crime. This abominable oppression is degrading, oppressive and terribly disgusting. It's something that makes me feel disgusted and a huge anger. How can you treat your own flesh and blood, or any other individual, like that? Madam President, I would like Why aren't the penalties higher? Why is it that more people are not expelled when it has come to light that they have carried out these abominable acts?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-569	Madam President, I would like The government has worked actively to tighten the penalties. We have just recently decided on a fine-tuning basis in the area of honorary motives. I think that is a very clear signal to society that we do not accept honour-related violence and repression and that we take these crimes extremely seriously. The very aspect of collective repression makes it extremely difficult to get out of violence and oppression, and it represents an extremely difficult situation for the children and women who are exposed to it. I believe that we should remain open to legislative changes. We should always be in politics to see what is needed to strengthen the protection of the people, not least children, who live in our society. Then we also need to look at what there is need for support and help. I am thinking of the task that the National Board of Health and Welfare has to map and look at how healthcare looks and to come up with proposals in the future on how we can strengthen support for those who have been subjected to genital mutilation. There should be receptions to turn to for support and assistance. There needs to be knowledge in health care that women may have been exposed to this, for help is available. You can get help, not least with the physical pain that this can mean every day in your daily life depending on how severe genital mutilation you have been subjected to. It's a suffering that no woman and no girl should have to join. You can also get support for the psychological suffering that can be at least as difficult. It may be that you need to process the abuse as it may mean, for example, being deluded in a situation as a child and then being subjected to this terrible abuse. There may thus be a need to work with the mental suffering and ill health that this abuse can entail. Then what I highlighted about the gender equality agency's mission is also important, i.e. to look at how we can work with behavioural and attitude changes. It is both about legislation, with which I started the speech, and about looking at how we can work to change in depth and help change these harmful attitudes. Standards and values can be difficult to change in people, but that is not impossible. I usually take anti-Agaic legislation as an example. Politicians in Sweden showed leadership. It was a kind of leadership that I think we would have to show more clearly these days and not be afraid to make decisions. The politicians had a majority of the Swedish people against them but said: This is the right thing to do. Violence against children is never ever okay, and we shall have this legislation. It went quite quickly in that particular case afterwards with changes in attitudes and behaviour of the Swedish people. Today, not many people feel that violence against children is okay. We also need to work on these kinds of changes in attitudes and behaviour in terms of genital mutilation, because this is crucial in order to tackle the basic problem and prevent girls from being subjected to this terrible suffering and the terrible abuse that genital mutilation entails. We must take responsibility for that. We must take responsibility for the consequences of exposing our child to this, we must take responsibility for preventing children from being taken abroad and subjected to it, and we must work to get to the standards and values.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-579	Madam President, I would like Why do children and women who have been subjected to honour-related violence and repression not have the same priority as, for example, the Afghan men who were granted residence permits? In my small ears, it does not add up to the fact that the government has appointed itself to be a feminist government. We should neither allow Islamism nor the so-called honour to have a stronghold in Sweden. The fact that you call it honor at all is terrible because it is as far from honor as you can only come. To turn the words and call it something that it is not, we must stop and instead stand for what things really are. I take the words of the Government that these issues are high-priority by the Government only when the Government and the Government really show it. Setting up investigations and making laws that are not enough is embarrassing. We know very well that there is a great difference between words and actions. Had this been a high priority, the government would have done more and much earlier. But, Madam President, contrary to what the government claims, this is not a high priority, because then there would have been stricter and tougher penalties. This is more about having a government that is afraid of losing its core voters and is therefore turning a blind eye to repression.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-584	Madam President, I would like It is embarrassing how few proposals it comes from the Swedish Democrats when it comes to taking steps towards honour-related violence and repression. I am also basing this on previous exchanges of views that I have had with the Member of Parliament. I would ask you to forgive me for using harsh words, but I think that this is justified. I also find it extremely sad to put Afghan boys who have fled for their lives from terrible oppression, including honour repression and oppression from religion, in Afghanistan or Iran – against other children who are in terrible trouble, in this case girls who have been subjected to genital mutilation. I think that if you have a child rights perspective with you, it is obvious to fight for all children. It's in the spinal cord. I would also like to say that it is extremely important to keep thinking about what steps forward we can take to combat oppression. It is an ongoing work with assignments to authorities, with legislative changes, with resources for county boards, municipalities and regions to combat honour-related violence and repression, with the establishment of a new national competence centre and with resources for the county boards' regional resource centre for children to be able to get help wherever they are in the country. But we still have a very long way to go to eradicate honour-related violence and repression. That is not something we will solve in a moment. There are many of us involved in this fight in politics. And we will continue to do so, across party boundaries, to constantly make sure to take steps forward that make a real difference in children's lives.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-589	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I believe that there is a need for a strengthened concrete child law and what measures the government intends to take to ensure that all children in Sweden have equal and well-functioning children's rights on equal terms in all the municipalities of Sweden. As I referred to in the reply to a written question from the interpeller with similar content on 16 December 2020, the objective of child rights policy is that all children and young people should be respected and given the opportunity for development and security, participation and influence. The aim is to promote and protect children's rights and interests in society and to ensure that all children's rights are safeguarded. Almost exactly a year ago, the Convention on the Rights of the Child became Swedish law. It is a historic step forward for children's rights and contributes to the visibility of children's rights and create the conditions for a child-right-based approach in all public activities. The effective implementation of the CRC requires, in addition to incorporation and further transformation, a combination of different measures such as guidance, training and coordination between different actors at different levels of society. Raising awareness of the rights of the child among state authorities, municipalities and regions and what these rights mean in practice is a prerequisite for achieving child rights policy objectives and for all children to have their rights met. The Government's knowledge transfer for the rights of the child has been ongoing since 2017 and aims to raise knowledge and strengthen the competence of public actors regarding the rights of the child and in particular the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In total, 17 government agencies have been commissioned by the government within the framework of the initiative to raise awareness. It is in municipalities and regions that most activities related to children exist. In social services, education and childcare, spatial planning, health care and culture and leisure, decisions are made that have a direct impact on children's everyday lives and their lives. Studies show that the awareness of the rights of the child and the commitment to the issues in general are very high among decision-makers and professionals in municipalities and regions. On the other hand, more knowledge is needed on how the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child can be put into practice. The enhancement of knowledge for the rights of the child will be developed and deepened. The Government has decided that eight new government agencies will participate in the work during 2021, and two who have already participated receive operationally adapted assignments. Within the framework of the knowledge transfer, the Ombudsman for Children has previously developed an online education about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, web seminars and a digital process support called the Children's Rights trip. The Ombudsman for Children is now given the opportunity to develop his support. If the Convention on the Rights of the Child is to have a real impact on the lives of all children and young people, it is also important that municipalities and regions continue to receive support. In order to help ensure that the application of children's rights is more effectively ensured, the Government has therefore commissioned the County Administrative Board of Dalarna County, in collaboration with the Children's Ombudsman, to coordinate and develop the application of children's rights by county administrative boards and to support efforts to ensure the application of children's rights in municipalities and regions.
i-Q7zUaXjeKgDm9FnmW1xh65	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Lindhagen, for your answer! Today, there is sometimes an extreme difference between municipalities in how they deal with children's issues. It is an effect of municipal self-government and of the differences in economic and political conditions that exist in our various municipalities. The working methods may also vary between municipalities which appear to have similar conditions on the surface. This is, of course, a major problem for those children and families who do not get the help and support they need. Some shortcomings can certainly be addressed and remedied with the knowledge boost that the government is working on, if properly designed. However, it is important to reach out to all municipalities, which is not easy. Unfortunately, it is probably the municipalities that already have the best conditions that have the easiest to take on a new way of working and that are quickest to adopt it. Thus, municipalities with poorer conditions tend to become relatively even worse. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is hardly a solution to these problems. It worries me that the government seems to believe that it solves all the problems. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has been in force for a long time and that it was introduced as a law did not really change its meaning in any way. A simple consultation of the social services of the major municipalities also suggests that nothing has changed in the way officials work since the Convention on the Rights of the Child became law. An important piece of the puzzle to overcome the differences between municipalities, I think, is to build a better exchange of information between municipalities. My party has long been pushing for common registers for family homes and even good men. In fact, the most logical thing should be to build databases where municipalities can exchange several types of information. Better systems also need to be developed to make legally secure investigations into children and care. A lot of things exist but are used in different ways in different municipalities. This is a small part of what we call a childhood guarantee and which we launched before the last election. At the same time, municipalities have the strength to work in different ways. It can be inspiring, and municipalities can serve as good examples and be forerunners for other municipalities. It is therefore important that self-government itself is not overly restricted. Unfortunately, I hear very little concrete in Åsa Lindhagen's answer. Most of it is a list of beautiful words and flosskeler. We were told that different actors should collaborate at different levels, that knowledge should be increased and that work should be supported in municipalities and regions. But how should collaboration be done? Between which actors and what levels are involved? What knowledge is lacking, and how will it reach out? What is the support for municipalities and regions? Is this money we're talking about? If so, how much money are we talking about? The answer raises more questions than it answers.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-603	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the honourable Member for giving me the opportunity to sort out those very questions a little. Yes, we have regional and municipal differences. It is also something that the Committee on Children's Rights regularly criticises Sweden for. Of course, it should not matter to a child where in Sweden you grow up. You should be able to get support and help. It's a challenge we have. We work to strengthen children's rights in Sweden, not least for those children who have the toughest. There are some things that I think are important. To be more concrete, we have commissioned the County Administrative Board of Dalarna to coordinate and develop the county administrative boards' mandate to work with children's rights in practice. They will also provide support to municipalities and regions on how to work together to strengthen children's rights and what that means for the municipality's activities. They will also promote exchanges of experience, learning from each other, which the Member of Parliament also highlights as important. This kind of mission in politics does not give any beautiful and big headlines in the media. But I am not in politics to hunt down beautiful and big headlines in the media, but to make a real and concrete difference in children's lives. It is therefore a very important task that the County Administrative Board in Dalarna County has to keep this work together and provide support to the county administrative boards, which of course in each county will provide support to the municipalities and regions. It is a harrow in this work of strengthening children's rights. The upgrading of knowledge, as I mentioned earlier, is also extremely important. The Ombudsman for Children also works to provide support to municipalities, regions and authorities in terms of what children's rights mean in practice. I think that even there we will have to dig even more into what it means for our various professional roles. What does it mean if I'm a social security secretary? What does it mean if I'm a teacher? What does it mean if I'm a city planner? How am I supposed to think about this? A guide has also been developed on how to interpret and apply the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, it has been one year. I think we have a long trip. I would not dare to stand here and say that it does not matter that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law. I am also convinced that this hypothesis will prove to be wrong. But I am pleased that the Member of Parliament still hopes that I am right, as he said earlier. It is also important to mention that the Ombudsman for Children has a task to gather the case law. What does it mean that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law? How will the courts judge? How will legislation be used? That is something we must also follow. I think it should be very interesting to take part of it. The Ombudsman for Children has precisely this mission to see what concrete significance it has gained. This applies not only to what I have talked about in the past, that is to say, what impact it has in the public sector, but also to the concrete significance it has in our courts in cases involving children in different ways. There were a few words about this. When it comes to children's rights, it is also important to work with the knowledge-raising efforts for cultural change in our activities. The second part is, of course, the legislation. It needs to continue to be strengthened in different ways for children so that we constantly strengthen child rights work in society.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-612	Madam President, I would like We will probably be able to discuss the Convention on the Rights of the Child frequently and extensively and whether it was the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child was introduced as the law that was most important or that the laws were subsequently brought into line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This could have been done without introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. There will be a discussion about what was the chicken and what was the egg. On the other hand, we can see that inequality between municipalities is large, sometimes very large. Problems that arise then are that safety assessments are made too late or not at all. Ex-ante assessments take too long. The child's situation is not always investigated by violence. The child does not come into contact with the responsible social security secretary or does not get an answer to the questions it has. The list of shortcomings that already exist today can be made almost indefinitely. A new Social Services Act is on the way, and it is highly unclear whether it will change so much, especially given that many of the shortcomings that exist in the municipalities today are due to a lack of compliance. The law that already exists is not being followed. The question is whether a new law will have a particular impact. In any tragic case that emerges, whether the municipality has acted or not, the constant common denominator is that applicable laws and rules have somehow been circumvented. Sometimes it has been done consciously, and sometimes it has been done out of ignorance. Often the human factor is decisive. If you are going to get to these problems, you cannot rely solely on new laws when the old ones are not being followed. Instead, compliance must be improved and methodological support made more secure, and procedures must be in place to make everything work. I miss concrete measures that raise children's rights and how the laws and regulations that exist are to be followed by the municipalities. What concrete proposals does the government actually have? How will the government ensure that the laws that we in the Swedish Parliament really comply with? Just throwing in new laws, as was done with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and as is likely to be done with the Social Services Act, without clearly saying how they should be interpreted and providing accompanying methodological support is quite pointless. Which team is on top today? Is it the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the Social Services Act? How will the municipalities interpret this? Perhaps Article 8 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child applies to the Social Services Act? When will the government adopt the European Convention as a law, if it is so good to adopt conventions as a law? I do not believe that the European Convention will be adopted as a law, but it applies above all, and then it adapts the laws it has in order for them to work under the conventions that we have signed. The fact that several laws clash with each other hardly makes it easier for children to have their rights satisfied in Sweden today. The examples I mentioned earlier about common platforms and the exchange of social services information are something that can be done. There are other things that can be done in concrete terms. It's about the level of detail you're supposed to have. My party has put forward a number of detailed proposals, but unfortunately I do not have time to raise them here.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-621	Madam President, I would like The possibility of exchanging information is an interesting issue to discuss. It is an important point that has been raised, and it is certainly worth discussing. What is being put forward about the implementation of legislation is also important. There are indeed examples where legislation has been in place but has not been used. As far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, few laws may have just as solid a job behind them. It is about preparing for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become a law. The development of guidance has been a work in progress for several years. It will strengthen knowledge of what children's rights mean in practice and how to work with this. There is also a mandate to follow the significance of this in the concrete judgments. It is, of course, important in all legislation to have good information for those who will apply the laws in practice. I would like to return to the importance of social services receiving the resources needed to do their job. We know that in children's and youth care in our municipalities there are many examples that social services have not had enough resources and that it has sometimes been the most difficult in children's and young people's care. We should be at our best there. In the work done for children and young people, they have sometimes had the worst opportunity to do their job. It has consequences for children in vulnerability. We have a political responsibility to give priority to social services, and we must take this responsibility. We would need much more debate in society on social policy and on vulnerable people, including adults, who are having a difficult time. How do we build a society in which all people have good living conditions? Social services are a crucial part, if not the only one, of creating a good society. This is a very important part that I think we are talking about far too little. What does it matter to individual social security secretaries if they have a tough working situation and many matters to deal with? Of course, the social workers have their own responsibility, and the activities also have a responsibility. But ultimately we politicians have the greatest responsibility for this. It is we who provide the conditions for them to be able to do the job. This is an important part of the implementation of the laws that are passed. You have to have the opportunity to absorb them and work in the businesses to apply them. Of course, it is obvious that Swedish law should be complied with. It is important to lift up and discuss the need to use existing laws. But it is also very clear to me that more legislative changes are needed to strengthen the situation of children in Sweden. Sometimes we need to go into individual paragraphs and screw, and that, of course, will not be corrected by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It makes a difference in a completely different way. It is not least about the values and standards that govern our society. Children's rights and the best interests of the child must have a stronger impact. I believe that the Convention on the Rights of the Child will be crucial if we are to change society so that children's rights are put first.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-629	Madam President, I would like We can agree that it is completely unreasonable for children to be dependent on living in the right municipality for the right help and to have their rights met. Today, the difference between municipalities is sometimes too great. Åsa Lindhagen says that we should prioritise social services. It is easy to say in Parliament's Chamber, but we know that it is the municipalities that decide on their budget. The government is happy to beat the chest about the Convention on the Rights of the Child but forgets that it has existed since 1989 and that Sweden committed itself to comply with it without reservation already in 1990. It has thus been valid for Swedish municipalities for over 30 years. During these 30 years, the Red-Green parties have been in charge for most of the time – the Green Party perhaps even longer than the Social Democrats. There is much we can do to improve children's rights in Sweden. I myself am advocating for the childhood guarantee that my party launched before the last election and which we support. It is intended to clearly show the municipalities what is expected of them while providing the support that the municipalities need to carry out the task. Finally, I can see that we still have a lot to do. I hope that the government has more concrete measures to implement than has been presented here today.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-633	Madam President, I would like The Government has made major investments in welfare billions to municipalities, where, based on their municipal conditions, it is necessary to make assessments of what the resources are needed for. But it is clear that there is an expectation that the funds will be used for people in the municipalities as wisely as possible, not least for those people who are having a difficult time, also ensuring that their situation can become even tougher during the coronapdemine. We have also made special efforts in the past and contributed money to social services from the government. It is therefore important that we also take national responsibility for this. I fully share the view that there are major regional and municipal differences and that this is an issue that we really need to take very seriously in order to ensure that children throughout Sweden have good growing-up conditions. Yes, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been in existence since 1989, and it has still not been fully implemented. That is the background to our taking this step. We cannot go on for another 30 years without having a strong impact on children's rights in society. It has been incredibly important for children that the Convention on the Rights of the Child was concluded and that we ratified it here in Sweden. We work actively with children's rights. But that's not enough. We have so much to do.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-635	Madam President, I would like Carina Ståhl Herrstedt has asked me whether I intend to act to correct the criticism of the application of children's rights so that it is done in a more equal way for the children and what I and the government intend to do in that case to strengthen them. The aim of child rights policy is for all children to have their rights met. It is therefore particularly important to continue to pay attention to those children who are at increased risk of being subjected to rights violations or abuse. All children have the right to feel safe and should be given the opportunity to grow up as free thinking individuals. In recent years, the Government has taken several measures to clarify the perspective of children's rights in various activities. The inquiry The future social services had the task of reviewing access to equal, equal and equal social services. On 26 August 2020, the investigation submitted its final report Sustainable Social Services – E n new Social Services Act to the Government. The study proposes a completely new social services law where social services, among other things, focus on having a preventive perspective and being easily accessible. The investigation also proposes a number of legislative changes aimed at clarifying the perspective of children's rights in the law. The report is now being consulted. Early intervention is often crucial for children and young people who are at risk of harm. Since 2017, the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Welfare has been tasked with carrying out development work with the aim of strengthening cooperation between student health, health care and social services so that children and young people receive early and coordinated efforts. The assignment shall be presented by 16 June 2023. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also been commissioned by the Government to make proposals on how opportunities to provide open interventions without consent can be increased. The assignment has been extended due to covid-19 and must be reported no later than 31 May 2021. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to investigate and submit legislative proposals on how the principle of the best interests of the child can be strengthened in connection with the assessment of whether treatment under LVU should be discontinued. The assignment shall be reported by 26 February 2021 at the latest. On 10 December 2020, the Parliament approved legislative amendments and announcements to the Government concerning children and young people in community care. The legislative changes make it clearer what municipalities' social welfare boards should consider in particular when they consider applying for the transfer of custody of children or young people who have lived in the same family home for three years. Such a move should then be considered every year. The so-called care plan for a child should be revised at the latest after two years' placement and treat where the child should live. In addition, special requirements for suitability should be made for public assistants to children and young people in cases and cases according to LVU. The legislative amendments will take effect on 1 March 2021. In order to achieve the objectives of child rights policy and to ensure that all children have their rights satisfied and receive equal treatment, it is not enough for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be incorporated into Swedish law. Strengthening the competence of the child's rights and what these rights mean in practice is a fundamental prerequisite for their impact. It is therefore important that municipalities and regions continue to receive support. The Government has therefore decided that the knowledge transfer for the rights of the child will be developed and deepened. In order to increase the coherence between municipalities, the County Administrative Board of Dalarna has been given a continued mandate to coordinate and develop the application of children's rights by the county administrative boards in collaboration with the Ombudsman for Children and Children and to support the efforts to ensure the application of children's rights in municipalities and regions. The government is keen that all children should have their rights respected and enjoy the protection and support guaranteed by the legislation. Measures to ensure this are taken continuously in different policy areas.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-644	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for the answer. She says in her reply that a great deal is being done and refers to several investigations. She mentions the investigation Future Social Services and its final report Sustainable Social Services – E n new Social Services Act. These are investigations that are needed and welcome, but there are precise problems that have been known for a long time. Clear and concrete support could perhaps have been put in place alongside these investigations, or perhaps not long before. My interpellation underlines the need for more concrete measures. What will the government do in practice here and now so that the authorities can correct the shortcomings? The interpellation response also highlights the fact that a mission has been assigned to carry out development work with the aim of strengthening collaboration between student health, health care and social services so that children and young people receive early and coordinated interventions and that the assignment must be reported no later than 16 June 2023. Whether it is June or January, it is quite a long way from then. In addition, only the assignment should be reported then. In addition, we will add preparations, referrals and so on. So it will take much longer than that. The question is, can the children wait this long? Strengthened collaboration between student health, health care and social services is an issue that the Swedish Democrats have pursued in any case as long as I can remember, and it is very important and urgent. Given that young people's mental health is more in the way than ever before, it would have been good if we had already had some form of cooperation on the ground. A recurring criticism, which has been discussed here before and which comes from many organisations and, of course, also from children and young people themselves, is that children do not feel listened to, which certainly makes contact with the authorities more difficult. The best interests of the child should be an obvious part of the work involving children, and it is also important that children themselves be involved. But in a number of ways it turns out that children's rights do not work in practice when children actually suffer and feel that they are not taken seriously and listened to. Madam President, I would like I am highlighting in my interpellation the fact that it looks very different around the country. Many municipalities highlight and use different methods. Many are developing new methods to strengthen children's rights, which is of course positive. Unfortunately, however, it is not being done everywhere. Then it won't be equal either. As I also write in my interpellation, this was recently highlighted at a conference organised by the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, which pointed out as negative that methodological development does not take place in many places. As we have discussed in the past, there are different variations that will mean unequal conditions for children. So they do not even have the same conditions from the beginning. I fully understand that it is impossible to ensure that there is a completely equal relationship, perhaps especially with regard to social services, because it is human assessments and balances that are to be made. But a first step would be to ensure that all municipalities at least develop methodological support that works. The National Board of Health and Welfare highlights children as bearers of rights and that children's rights are part of the human rights enshrined in Swedish law. In practice, however, it turns out that children's rights do not work satisfactorily. We must clearly ensure that children become the holders of rights that they should be and that they are always at the centre. Does the Minister have any thoughts and ideas to ensure more equal working methods in the municipalities?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-651	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, when it comes to the assignment of previous efforts and development work with the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Services in relation to pupil health, health care and social services, it is important that development work takes place in the meantime so that there is not only an accounting in 2023 and that the work will then begin. It's a very important mission. I hope it will happen a lot. What is highlighted here about collaboration is extremely important. It is one of our major development areas in society. It is a question of improving people's living conditions and bringing together different activities better. There's no quick fix. There are no simple answers. It is an incredibly important issue that is highlighted here. It's about getting different parts of the social services together. They should have a good cooperation where it is the individual who is at the centre. This is the person you should cooperate with, the individual child. It is also, of course, about other activities, principals, authorities and parts of the municipal administration. They must also work together. It's important. An important part of children's rights is the task that the county boards have and which I have highlighted in the past. It may sound a bit dry that the County Administrative Board of Dalarna has a mission to coordinate and develop the county administrative boards' application of children's rights. But behind the dry words there is something that has great substance. It is a work that I think is extremely important. It is important to work with what is highlighted here. It is about developing and disseminating methods and procedures. If you have not done such a job in your municipality, it is very good if you learn from the municipalities that have done it and that do a good job. It is highlighted that you should listen to the children. We have been into earlier interpellation debates here during the day. It is a key element in strengthening the quality of interventions for children who live in vulnerable situations in different ways. As I said here before, it is a right, but it is also a question of quality. By listening to children, we will do better. What we need to do is strengthen knowledge about children's rights in our respective activities. What does it mean for me to put children's rights first? As it was put here before, they are beautiful words. I think those are pretty words. But it must also mean something to me as an individual administrator. What is my priority when, for example, I have goal conflicts? In addition to knowledge, the resource issue is important. It is important to invest in welfare and the employees who work around our businesses and will provide support and help. Then there are the legislative issues. I think we have a lot to do. We are now talking, for example, about children's rights. We have a strong parenting family that can cause problems for children. In some cases we need to go into the legislation. We should always be clear that when there are goals conflicts, it is extremely important to have children's rights with us in that work. Children's right to safety and protection must go first. There we need legislative changes. Now my speaking time is almost up, so I will have to come back to that.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-662	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer! I can agree with the last thing Mr Lindhagen is talking about. There are laws that in some sense contradict each other. That's where we're all on the same line. Lindhagen also mentions in his written reply that it will be more uniform and clear what should be taken into account in custody transfers and termination of care, just as the Government highlights. What I would like to see is the same clarity even before decisions on possible care are taken, because there is no clarity. If everyone uses different methods to arrive at their assessments, it will not be equal conditions. What I mean is missing is greater clarity and methodological support long before, i.e. before assessing and deciding on possible care. Of course, the criticism that things are so different in the country is worrying. It does not create an equal relationship. The place of residence is far too crucial for the type of support given to children. The work already under way in the form of investigations and missions is highlighted. This applies, for example, to the development and deepening of the knowledge transfer for the rights of the child. I'm really happy with it and that it's done a lot. The only question is how children are involved in this work. Is it that we adults should once again stand here and find out what children need, what children want and what they want without even listening to them? Is it the case that a project is being set up? Or have in-depth interviews been conducted with children and young people to find out what they really need and lack in contact with the authorities or in their conversations with government officials? How should government officials practically start talking to children? What I refer to in the interpellation is that it is a shortcoming that many are not used to talking to children and even feel that it is not good for the child to talk to them. That is an approach that we must change. I regret that this interpellation debate did not coincide with the previous debate. There'll be a lot of repetitions. Maybe it's the most difficult thing for the government. I'm going to shorten my speech a little. Madam President, I would like It is one thing to be good at your job and have full control of all processes, laws, and know exactly what different support and methods there are. But it's another thing to actually have the right methods to meet the children and talk so that it becomes something good. The big problem today, just as we have talked about before, is that laws and rules that already exist are not being complied with. What concrete proposals are there for better follow-up and better control to ensure that this happens in the future? Is there anything that the Minister intends to do more hands-on here and now, or is it the idea that we should wait for the work that is going on and in the meantime allow the shortcomings in children's rights to remain and that laws be circumvented?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-673	Madam President, I would like These are extremely important issues that are highlighted here. For me, it is a privilege to stand in Parliament and discuss children's rights. One important point highlighted is to follow up what legislation has become important. Compliance was raised here earlier by the Member of Parliament. It is an important issue to have with us when the legislation is new to follow it up after some time. It can also be a wise point to take with you to see how legislation might have been implemented several years ago. It is my reflection on what is being highlighted. Individual conversations with children and children's opportunities to make their voice heard are highlighted. It's extremely important. It is also about the fear that may exist to talk to individual children. It is something that hurts the heart of many of us to hear the youths and adults who say: Why did no one ask me? It also applies to those who suspected that the children were having a tough time at home or even knew it. But they didn't ask. It's about the harm it can do not ask children how they are. You should also be afraid of that. It is about listening to the individual child in the individual situation. It is then important, which is also highlighted, to have knowledge. How do I have such a conversation in a good way? It can be children who have a very difficult situation. How can I enter into such a conversation? It's a pretty qualified social work. Then it is also important to listen to groups of children. It's about both levels. This may involve listening to many children, such as children who have been or are family homes. What do they say we can do better? We worked in the municipality I served in last term with the Western Northern model, as it is called. That's one way. Then it's a very simple way. It is about interviewing children, such as family homes, and asking them: What do you think we have done well in social services? And what do you think we could have done better? I met social secretary who said it was the funniest thing they had done to have these interviews with the children and ask them how we can do an even better job. Are there shortcomings, where we have not kept pace and where we can do better in the future? I think this is extremely important. It is important to listen to many children and, of course, to use this knowledge to make changes. I also believe that in politics we can improve on what is being raised here – the issue of adults who stand and discuss children's rights. What about the children's voice? I think that's an important point that was raised. One way, of course, is the Children's Ombudsman, who has a special mission to listen to children, to build their knowledge on it and to identify shortcomings based on what children themselves say. It is very important for us to take part in what, for example, the Children's Ombudsman lifts. It is also about actors such as the General Children's House, which becomes a way for us to take part in children's voices. But we in politics also have a job to do with thinking for ourselves about how we listen to children and young people. How can we learn from their knowledge of their situation? Children are experts in their own situation. That is how we can do better in politics. There were some reflections on my part on this. I believe that what has been raised here with methodological support for how to do this in practice is crucial. Unfortunately, there is not only a simple political decision here to make that we should now listen to children and do so in a good way, and then we can move on. It's a harrowing too with this.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-687	Madam President, I would like Lindhagen and I seem to have a great deal of consensus in terms of the problem description. I heard an interesting thing about listening to groups of children and listening to previously placed children. I think it's something amazingly good to do. What you have to bring with you—it can be a small contribution—is that there's a difference between talking to placed children and talking to previously placed children. You'll get completely different answers when you ask questions. Previously placed children can also be an important group to reach – only said as a small passus. On the whole, I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate and to apologise if I were perhaps a little outside the Minister's sphere. But she hooked on pretty good herself, 'cause it's all connected. What I wanted to highlight was the criticism that it looks so different. If it is related to school health care, social services or the ability of government officials to talk to children to ensure children's rights, it is difficult to get narrow in your arguments. I still feel that there is a consensus in the description of the problem. We may not be in full agreement on the measures, but we can take them at another time.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-692	Madam President, I would like I think what's being lifted is very important. It concerns both the right of children to make their voice heard and the differences that exist. We have to be honest about that. We should always be honest with all policies, and it is only to be noted that the differences exist and that this is a problem. We also get criticism from the Committee on Children's Rights for this. I also worked as a municipal politician on these issues. These are questions that are not quite simple when it comes to exactly how to do it. What we did at municipal level then was just to produce method support in different ways. This is, for example, about what children's rights mean when it comes to financial assistance in social services. How do you listen to children? Nor must we ever place a responsibility on the child for the financial situation. So how do we have a good conversation with children and make sure that their needs are also seen? How do we interact across borders in social services, for example, around a child? And what do children's rights in general mean in social services? We developed this type of method support, and I think that is very important to do. There is no quickfix, but it is hard work that is required. As far as legislation is concerned, it is an extremely clear fact that we have legislation where social services, for example, cannot make efforts for children if parents say no and the conditions of LVU legislation are not met. This is a very clear example of the strong parental right, where children's rights are not put first. We have children who father so badly that sometimes they are forced to take care of a few years later because the conditions are finally met. We have failed these children, and it is we politicians who are responsible for that legislation. We're the ones who make the laws. Legislation needs to have a concrete impact on children's lives, but it can also be part of driving the changes in values and behaviour across society that we need to do. Thank you for the important questions that have been asked!
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-697	Madam President, I would like Mr Emilsson has asked me how the government sees the problem of a few private actors controlling such a significant part of the information infrastructure and whether I intend to take any action in this regard. He has also asked how the government will ensure that Swedish freedom of expression principles are maintained on the Internet in Sweden, for example in cases where a significant part of the modern network infrastructure is subject to the legislation of an authoritarian state. Finally, Aron Emilsson has asked what the government's starting point is in its view of the network operators that form the main part of the information structure on the network, whether they are closer to newspapers with editorial responsibilities or whether they should be likened to opinions. Furthermore, Mikael Strandman has asked me if I think it is a democracy problem that a few private actors who own the infrastructure for the exchange of information on the Internet can arbitrarily choose what opinions may be shared on their platforms. If my answer is yes, Mikael Strandman also wonders if the government intends to come back with legislative proposals to bring about a free, open and democratic exchange of views on the Internet. I choose to answer these two interpellations together as they touch on the same issue. Let me begin by stating that freedom of expression has a long tradition and a strong position in Sweden. It is a prerequisite for a free public debate and freedom of opinion, and it is one of the absolute cornerstones of democracy. The issue of the position of the major internet platforms is important not only in Sweden but globally for everyone who defends freedom of expression and democracy. Over the last decade, individuals have been given completely new opportunities to spread ideas and to participate in the public debate. Digital development and access to free internet in the Western world offer great opportunities to create and distribute different types of content that can be accessed by all. Internet platforms with user-generated content have developed into important free-word intermediaries and have also created the opportunity for users of the services to reach a great many more than before. It is basically a positive development; it provides new conditions for the free formation of opinions. As Aron Emilsson notes, the development also involves significant challenges, not least for the production of national media, for example in the form of loss of information, since the majority of digital advertising investments now fall to the global platforms in the form of media that produce and mediate journalism. Madam President, I would like Many of the largest internet platforms are not traditional opinions but services with a business model based on sophisticated algorithmic tools to both sort and present content and ads to users. The services are also not media with editorial responsibility. Private internet platforms are also different and have a fundamental freedom to organise and set the conditions for the use of their services themselves. But this freedom must be exercised with judgment and responsibility. Given the central position of companies in freedom of expression, it is of course important that both the terms of use and the work on compliance are characterised by clarity and transparency. As Mikael Strandman notes, society needs to follow technological developments in order to enable a free, open and democratic debate climate. Within the EU as well as in a number of other international organisations, work is under way to examine the need for new or changed regulation to ensure that principles that are basic offline are also maintained online. In December 2020, the European Commission presented a package of measures aimed at ensuring the functioning of the single digital market in the light of the growing position of some internet platforms. An important part of the Commission's proposal for a regulation on a single market for digital services, DSA, is that the largest platform companies should meet higher demands for content, transparency and information to users and reporting to authorities than smaller operators. The package also includes a proposal for a regulation on competitive and fair markets in the digital sector, DMA, which proposes obligations for large platform companies with a so-called gatekeeper function. As Minister of Culture and Democracy with responsibility for media issues, I follow the work in this area very closely. These are difficult issues that need to be discussed intensively both nationally and internationally. The negotiations that are about to begin at EU level relate to a regulatory framework that needs to be carefully balanced as it aims to regulate services that have become very important for the conditions for the free formation of opinion and democracy in Sweden. For the government, the importance of maintaining a broad freedom of expression and information will govern the entire work.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-709	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister for Culture Amanda Lind for her answer. He came like a dizzying weather on April Eve. The quote is recognized from Hemsö residents when the new farmhand Carlsson walked in. Like a storm, the great debate of our time on freedom of speech, democracy and the dominance of international media companies has just blown up to hurricane power in recent weeks. Suddenly, the problem is on everyone's lips. Debate submissions after the submission of a debate replace each other. It's fine, but it's the eleventh hour, five to twelve. I have asked three questions to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Let me return to them after just a brief exposé on the weight and nature of the issue. We are now in a situation where a few global technology companies control a significant part of the information infrastructure. In recent years, several votes have been removed or suspended from the multinationals' platforms. It has affected everything from citizens and journalists to news media and parliamentarians. They have been shut out from today's town of opinion, the church slope of our time, not infrequently with vague or non-existent justifications. Swedish democracy and not least the Swedish Democrats have for many years defended, championed and explained the importance of freedom of expression for our open, free and independent society and everyone's freedom to express themselves and their opinions. It has not always been obvious, either historically or in recent years – especially for movements that challenge power in different ways, whether in our country or in authoritarian states. That freedom cannot be taken for granted, and it certainly has not been possible to do so historically during its successive implementation in our society. The language, time and actors are different today, but the problem formulation is similar and sails forward like a schooner in the fun of the global and digital seas. During the 18th century it was about freedom of the press in ink. Today we are talking about freedom of expression in our digital environment. The nature of those in control is shifting. Democracy must be defended absolutely regardless of the colour of the pin of the party in the exercise of executive power or the logo that illustrates the company in question. It should be in the interests of all of us. What, then, is the government's view of the problem of a few actors controlling such a significant part of the information infrastructure? I have heard and read the Minister's statement that private internet platforms are different and have a fundamental freedom to organise their own environment. But, and this is essential, it is a freedom associated with great responsibility. That responsibility is not being taken on today. The examples of it are growing. It is clear and clear that in democratic elections elected representatives of the people must act – representatives from whom citizens can demand action from and then demand responsibility, as opposed to the management of the multinationals. Fine words about judgment and responsibility are not enough; effective measures are needed for legal certainty, free exchange of views and compliance with Sweden's constitutions. The oligopolistic position of the net giants is significant. I think it is an unreasonable order that multinational companies with greater financial muscle than the bnp of smaller states today control such significant parts of the modern infrastructure of public dialogue in such an uncontrollable way. Both freedom of expression and the rule of law must be secured by the power of opinion of our time. These companies are not, in fact, individual publishers, online magazines or individual websites; they provide the infrastructure for all these actors and individual citizens to operate on. My supplementary question is therefore: Is the Minister for Democracy prepared to work actively to ensure that freedom of opinion actually takes precedence over cybercensorship?
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-719	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the Minister's reply. Today, a few multinational giant companies largely have a monopoly on digital infrastructure. As we move more and more to getting our news and information from the Internet, it will in reality be up to them to decide for themselves who, what and what opinions are to be put forward. However, this continued to be the case is not a natural law. Historically, communities have on several occasions come in and steered a free and unregulated market that has not proved to work for the public good. We have many laws where human rights and freedoms are superior to private ownership. The web has the natural tendency to deliver the best added value by moving towards large devices. On social platforms, of course, you want to be where everyone else is, such as Facebook or Insta. It is also practical to have everything regarding a particular area in one place, such as Google or Youtube. Often this is positive from a social point of view and brings benefits to all. But in other cases, where it has to do with the intentions of our constitutions, this will be devastating unless freedom of expression is protected. The laws were created to give the people freedom of opinion and the freedom to promote these views. As the information infrastructure is currently owned by a private oligopoly, the laws in their current form are partially eliminated. In most cases, a major change in society comes first, and then comes the legislation that has proved necessary to govern it. The Internet will be no exception. When our freedom of the press and freedom of expression laws were created, there was no internet, nor was there the idea that the infrastructure for the transmission of information would be completely dominated by a few global companies. This is why new legislation must be introduced for a new age. The laws must govern this serious situation in which the freedom of expression for which we have fought for centuries risks being restricted, censored and conditional. Precisely how this is to be done by law is, of course, very complicated, but the starting point must be that the free, democratic dialogue must be protected according to the intentions of our constitutions. When citizens lose the opportunity to express and share their views freely, the gap between the people and power widens, which risks undermining the very foundations of democracy. I think the vast majority of us agree that platforms should be obliged to clear out pure illegality. In addition, there is also, of course, a reasonable basis for the platforms to have their own guidelines as to which material they consider harmful or inappropriate, such as gross violence or pornography. But that is not what we want to interfere in. It's not about that. What we want to protect, however, is freedom of expression, the democratic dialogue. This is what the new legislation must focus on. If we do not, the democratic debate is in danger of being strangled. Power will be able to determine what may be said, what may be said and who may be heard. The variety of opinions that can enrich democracy, which can make you think in other ways and which can lead you to reconsider your position, will disappear. Sure, there will be opinions that we find both crazy and sometimes just reprehensible. But this is part of the concept of democracy. It is a sacrifice that democracy must always make. Otherwise, there is no democracy. Having said that, I would like to ask whether the Minister shares my view on the importance of not allowing freedom of expression to be restricted as long as it remains within the framework of the law.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-730	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the interpellants for raising this issue in the Swedish Parliament. Aron Emilsson expressed it as that it has been a bit dizzy and that this has now swept us over like a spring wind. I don't think I agree. We've been working on this issue for a while. It's definitely been on the wallpaper before. A few years ago, it may have been more about the responsibility of global online giants for the rapid removal of pure illegality. A few years ago there was a lot of discussion about how important it is to quickly remove, for example, terrorist propaganda and that kind of material. Steps have also been taken there. First of all, of course, I share the view that we should combat censorship – it should not happen – and that we should protect freedom of expression. It's absolutely fundamental. But we must also problematise what these platforms are. It's a little bit of a jungle. It is not possible to compare them as completely neutral opinions. Why not? Well, as I said in my introduction, there is an advanced mechanism behind which materials are rewarded, made visible and disseminated. It's about quite advanced algorithms that are often based on some kind of market interest: What attracts advertisers, and what generates clicks and commitment? This in itself is a problem, I mean, also for our democracy. It runs the risk of driving extremism and polarisation, and it does not in itself have the character of a free power of opinion in which all votes are valued equally. That is not the case today. That does not mean that this is not a problem that we need to address. There are probably several of us who are concerned that we have a few global online giants who have a potentially very great power over the information that is currently being spread around the world. That is why both I and the Government have supported the proposals that are now coming out at European level and, not least, the debate that we need to have, both nationally and internationally. Always when it comes to legislation and regulation of infrastructure platforms and various phenomena relating to free speech, it is important to be careful and think about how best to regulate the problems we have. The proposals that are now at EU level have pointed out that the really large net giants have a particular responsibility. With great power comes also a great responsibility. It's both about quickly removing pure illegality – it's important – and about creating the transparency that I perceive the interpellants here asking for: clarity of terms of use and the possibility to appeal, so that you understand why your post or user is removed. These are important rules of the game. I also believe that we need to realise that things in the digital world are changing very quickly. In ten years, a lot has happened. Platforms have come and gone. We should not be deluded into believing that legislation can solve everything. We also need an ethical discussion both in terms of the responsibility of the platforms and in terms of which dialogue we, as the Swedish people, want to promote online. We must stand up for the real opportunities of freedom of expression to operate. Of course, unpleasant views must also be heard. It is a cornerstone of our democracy that I fully agree with.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-737	Madam President, I would like As early as August 2019, I asked the government through Morgan Johansson how it intends to secure a free social debate on these types of platforms. In the same year, I had the privilege of initiating and leading a working group on analysis and idea development regarding freedom of expression and democracy with a special focus on media development. We expressed a vision and a description of the problems and presented a number of proposals for further preparation for our working days. Our overall assessment was that freedom of expression can be strengthened by evaluating and updating legislation in certain areas and that the freedom of citizens and the media can be revitalised and maintained, including by ensuring that no one is subjected to unfair discrimination, by highlighting abuses of laws restricting freedom of expression and by reviewing a new media ethics system that may need to be put in place in the flora of media environments currently available. We also proposed penalties for crimes aimed at silencing journalistic activities, as well as pushing for a review of the law on crimes against civil liberties in order to be able to legislate more clearly against the criminal silencing of opinion-formers. I would like to hear how the Minister views these building blocks. These proposals were heard during our national days, and we have since been working on them and intend to do so both in Parliament and in other bodies. Discussion of the soft power of social media platforms in relation to freedom of expression has increased as media, parliamentarians and world leaders have been suspended from several social media platforms. The east of the free formation of opinion is now heard from both left and right. Amanda Lind notes that the issue of the position of the major IT platforms is important not only in Sweden but also internationally and globally, and freedom of expression is a cornerstone of popular governance. But when it comes to how the government wants to ensure that this cornerstone is applied, I miss all the more. When our laws of freedom have been passed, the intention has been that the individual's opinion is fundamental, notwithstanding the fact that the Internet did not exist at the time. How to deal with this today, I miss a clear answer from the Minister. It is high time we drew up a national strategy for securing freedom of opinion when freedom of expression is controlled by a few multinationals and not by representatives of representative democracy or by actors of power in the form of legislative, review and judicial power. What is the government's position on the individual's right? A completely fundamental question in this discussion is how we define the companies we are talking about. The Minister has touched on this. Today there is an oligopoly situation, and there is an incredible lack of competition. Of course, they are not just neutral notice boards, nor are they merely editorial agents with responsible publishers. That is where the problem lies. They are global players in gold pants with deep pockets, so to speak, and then the logical follow-up question arises, especially on a Friday: what are we on our way? I am getting closer to the Commission's proposals in this area, but even now I think that the Commission's approach to these issues is not unproblematic. If international actors are required to remove content in the event of a suspicion of illegality, they will act prematurely. We must not take that risk. It is a system that we in the Swedish parliament and government cannot accept in our responsibility to the Swedish people, no matter who is in power for the day.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-745	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister. This is, as I said, about companies that want to make money. They want their algorithms so they can get the right people in and sell. That business model must be respected. But that is not what we should focus on, it is when they hinder the very freedom of opinion and freedom of expression and turn off various politicians and citizens' journalists or turn out media channels without giving any reason. As I said, this is complicated, but one can at least say that the order we have today, where we can cut someone off, so to speak, is very problematic. We can take the example of Trump. After all, it is a elected president of a great democracy. In another era with another president, there may be a reasonableness for that president to speak—there may have been some form of electoral fraud or similar. Should it really be up to private oligopolies to decide who should speak and not? The debate often hears that there are other ways to go. But as things stand today, it is becoming more and more the big online giants that the information goes through. I'm sure there won't be papers in ten years. It is therefore very important that this legislation should start and come into being as soon as possible, before the problems get worse.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-749	Madam President, I would like I note that I do not hear from the interpellants any real point of view on the fact that we are taking this process at European level. I think that's good. I think it is a wise approach that we are trying to keep this type of regulation at a greater level than only Sweden. Then it is interesting to follow, for example, the UK, which is now outside the EU, which is developing a similar regulation with largely the same building blocks. I shall now come back to the proposals on the table. It is a question of imposing higher demands on the largest players. That's where we agree. They have a special position. There is reason to really think about how that responsibility can be taken. I may find it a little regrettable that none of the interpellants, the representatives of the Swedish Democrats, are problematizing the other parts of this. It's something I've been involved in for a very long time. It is about ensuring that pure illegal material is quickly removed. We cannot regard these actors as free-minded either, because they have algorithms that control the content and control the scope. It can in itself be a breeding ground for polarization and that extremism can spread. That's the way it is. These are also free companies. It is the business companies that have developed these models. In all probability, that is also why they are so successful. Having said that, we need to take this seriously. I think it is a good thing that we now have an EU approach to dealing with the issue of pure illegality. We simply need greater responsibility here. But, of course, we also need to ensure that transparency is increased. I fully share what Mikael Strandman says: You should not end up in an unknowing user. You shouldn't wonder why your posts are removed. Transparency is an important cornerstone of this, I think. It is also important, as is proposed here, with some form of appeal system and the like. It is to be able to take steps towards greater responsibility, so that you do not remove too many things and so that the step towards control of the content is not too big. At the same time, I think we have to accept that this is a difficult discussion. Such questions and discussions may need time. Nor can I see that there is a simple solution to these issues. It is also a technological development that is moving quite quickly. But I think it is quite right that we are now having this discussion at European level. In this work, Sweden will be the guarantor of extensive practical freedom of expression. You can rely on me as Minister for Democracy and Sweden to monitor this. I would like to comment briefly on what Mr Emilsson said about freedom of expression. Of course, it has a lot of legs. As far as media ethics is concerned, it is something that we do not rule from a political point of view. It is something that the media sector itself develops, a media ethics system. There, steps have been taken in recent years, not least because it is seen that there is more material on the digital platforms than in the paper magazines. You have to find a system that regulates it. But there, of course, we should also be wary of over-regulation. I also think it is important to talk about the fact that in the truly applied freedom of expression we must have strong and independent commercial media in Sweden. Media support is an important part of that. We should of course have a strong, vibrant and rich cultural life with artists who have a real opportunity to work. These are important principles that I will defend.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-757	Madam President, I would like Democracy presupposes a free, independent and viable conversation where one can unfilteredly exchange views with one another. I hope that has come to light in both this debate and countless other debates that we have had on this issue. But it is obvious – here will my problematisation of the picture, as the Minister called for – that a new form of media ethics needs to be established in relation to many of the digital platforms. The tone can be sad, sometimes offensive. We have problems with online bullying, pressure, the use of violence, pornography involving children and young people, etc. We also agree that illegality must be combated. There is no doubt about it. But when the formation of opinion is threatened, we have to pull out in its defence – it is about the intentions of Sweden's constitutions. I note that the Minister confirms my view that the development has led to problems for content-producing media in the form of loss of revenue, when the majority of digital giants take, so to speak, advertising revenue that previously went to traditional Swedish newspapers, for example. I believe that we share the analysis but then draw completely different conclusions. The government's response to this market transformation has been to provide increased government subsidies to free press, which ironically risks moving from free and independent to free and dependent. I think that's harmful. It was also noted at the seminar of the Institute for Media Studies just before Christmas, where both the Minister and the undersigned participated, that a change in these issues is needed in order to increase the distance between the media and executive power. I believe that this is an issue that needs to be addressed in relation to international digital developments, but also in relation to precisely the cultural and media independence of those in power today.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-761	Madam President, I would like Thank you for all the good discussions! I think it is important that we really do make legislation on this and do not leave it to some form of media ethics system, in which private actors and other actors themselves are to take care of this. Perhaps today we can allow that to be done in the world of newspapers. This is where legislation needs to be done. Because it is serious if our freedom of expression is restricted. There must be popular parliamentary support at European or national level. It is clear that it is better if it is at European level. But it must be a proper piece of legislation and a heavy fine if our freedom of expression is restricted in the way that it risks doing.
i-edb63d65553d2dcf-763	Madam President, I would like Yes, the issue of the position of the major internet platforms is important, not only in Sweden but also globally, for all of us who defend freedom of expression and democracy. It is, as I said, an area that I, as Minister of Democracy and Media, naturally follow very closely. Digitalisation has brought fantastic opportunities to make themselves heard and participate in the democratic dialogue. At the same time, we can see that pure illegality, online hatred, threats and misinformation are also spread faster and more easily than ever. Platform companies have the absolute opportunity to improve, flag and report illegal threats and hatred. They also have a responsibility to improve the follow-up to what has been flagged or notified. The platforms have a great responsibility. They have evolved into important intermediaries of the free word. They have created the opportunity for users of the service to reach a great many more than before. It is basically a positive development that provides new conditions for the free formation of opinions. At the same time, the emergence of platforms poses challenges that are difficult to address with existing legal and political tools when they are neither neutral opinions nor editorial media. Private internet platforms are also different between themselves. They have a fundamental freedom to organise and lay down the conditions for the use of their services. However, given the central position of these companies, this freedom must be exercised with discretion and responsibility. It is of course important that both the terms of use and the work on compliance are characterised by clarity and transparency. We must follow technological developments here. Freedom of expression has a long tradition and a strong position in Sweden. Now that we are going to protect it in a new democratic landscape together with the other Member States of the European Union, we must be careful. We shall be open to several types of solutions and, of course, we shall stand up for free opinion as a cornerstone of our democracy.
