i-68e07b04a6408110-1	Madam President, I would like Integrity is a concept that we far too rarely discuss in depth in Swedish political debate. It is constantly present, but we may have many times different opinions about what it means. It's okay. Integrity is a very large concept, and it can mean different things to different people. However, in a world where we are constantly developing in a direction which means that integrity must always be protected and must always be protected, not only by the individual, but also by us as legislators and representatives of the people, the discussion is inalienable. Every day, additional data is produced about all of us connected. Every day that information is stored, and every day there is a need for the information to be protected from misuse. Every day it becomes even more important. The European Union has made great efforts at a European level to try to ensure our common integrity – for each of us as individuals. This has led to a situation where there is uncertainty as to how companies and authorities can cooperate with companies from other countries, such as the United States. There was a recent ruling by the European Court of Human Rights that concluded that information can no longer be stored in accordance with the European Data Protection Directive in the United States, for example, because the so-called privacy shield was not considered sufficient to ensure privacy. It had to do with the laws that apply across the Atlantic, but it also has consequences for the opportunities for us to cooperate and for the opportunity for growth that it means being able to work with companies from other countries. We Moderates have a reservation in this report in which we stress the importance of the government and the European Union making great efforts to get a new agreement and a new system in place, so that our borderless world can continue to be borderless to an increasing extent. Cooperation across national and continental borders must be able to continue to develop for our common growth while ensuring the protection of privacy for our citizens and for everyone. When it comes to personal integrity, it will be the great challenge of the 21st century to ensure that it remains secure when it comes to data produced every day about us. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 5.
i-68e07b04a6408110-8	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support reservation number 1. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations on this matter. Madam President, I would like I thought I'd go into the Bar Association. It's a strange creation. It is a private law organisation with members. At the same time, there is the exercise of public authority funded by the public. We think it is a problematic approach. In fact, in our Constitution, in the Freedom of the Press Regulation, it says that what is the exercise of public authority and that is paid for by tax revenue should have transparency. It's supposed to be public records. As far as the Bar Association is concerned, it is not public documents. It is by grace that we are given access to their actions. I admit that in recent years things have improved. But when I tried a few years ago, it was not always as easy to get documents out. Now there has been a lot of debate about the Bar Association and their disciplinary board. It is also noticeable that there has been an improvement, but there is still no legal support for me to get out their actions. We think that this is wrong and problematic. The Bar Association is a private law organisation, but it is a public authority. The practice of authority is that the Bar Association is the only organisation allowed to license lawyers. Lawyer is a protected title in Sweden today. At the same time, lawyers are paid for by tax revenue from the public. Every person charged with a crime that can lead to more than two years in prison has the right to a lawyer, and as I said, it is paid for by tax funds. If a lawyer commits a serious infringement or violates good law or the ethical guidelines of lawyers, the prosecutor cannot raise that matter in a district court, but it is the Bar Association's own disciplinary board that will then decide in law. It is stated in the Code of Criminal Procedure that this is the case. It is also a little strange – if it is a judicial review and it has a public interest – that it does not become a public document. I think it's really weird. In the district court, the judges are public documents. It is an important basic principle we have in Sweden today. It's supposed to be public documents for all these trials. Almost the most serious thing lawyers can do is break the one-bedroom privileges. One-room privilege means that a prisoner always has the right to see his lawyer in private and talk about his case. That's great, but one condition for it to work is that you know that the lawyer does not become an intermediary of information from the prisoner if he has severe restrictions. It should not be the case that the lawyer becomes some kind of messenger between the prisoner and his surroundings, as the whole restriction procedure would be pointless and preliminary investigations could be postponed. By violating the privacy of one-room detention, a person under arrest with restrictions can create an alternative, consistent story with his cronies, eliminate evidence, threaten witnesses, fix false alibis, and so on. That's why it's very important that a lawyer really sanctifies the one-bedroom privilege. Do not do so, but it appears that the lawyer has violated the restrictions, the ban on disclosure or something, it is therefore the Disciplinary Board of the Bar Association that will try it legally. I believe that there is a general interest to be able to access these documents with legal support. That is why we have put forward this motion for this to be a public document. After all, the Bar Association is not just a private-law organisation; it is a private-law organisation entrusted with the exercise of public authority which is paid for by tax funds. Then, according to the intent of our constitution, there should be transparency according to the principle of public access, and it should have legal support. We also mentioned that the examination of lawyers does not necessarily need to be carried out by the organisation itself. Instead, one might find a form in which an external body examines. It is never good that an organization examines itself. It always takes the pepper. It never works, and that's why you always put audits and things in some external instance and don't let organizations do it themselves. We get a lot of criticism for this. You take away the independence of lawyers, they say. However, we argue that this independence is worth nothing if, in the end, it becomes a bunch of back-dumping colleagues who may have lost their moral compass to do this. Independence is only worth something if it is actually a real independence. I can see in front of me several different models for an external review. You could post it in the same way as with the JO. JO is fairly independent, let's just say. Neither parliament nor government can affect them. The Disciplinary Board of the Bar Association could be placed on some sort of order like the one we have with the JO. Today we have JK who can appeal against the Disciplinary Board's decision. But JK only appeals those decisions that are of very great importance in principle. They're not looking at every decision, they're just a few. 99.9% of cases are examined by the Bar Association itself. We find that problematic. Nor do we believe that it would remove the independence of the Bar Association if an external body were to review when lawyers were reported for infringements. We still want lawyers to be private. It is absolutely not supposed to be any form of state attorney. We never said that. We just want the review itself to be left out of the Bar Association.
i-68e07b04a6408110-23	Madam President, I would like The right to privacy is a fundamental human right. It is about the individual's right to privacy and the possibility of self-determination in both physical and digital society. In a narrow sense, privacy can relate to the protection of personal data and, in a broader sense, to the protection of private activities and to being able to communicate confidentially without being mapped, tracked or supervised either by authorities or by global corporations. In self-determination lies the possibility of checking who uses data about yourself and for what purposes. The issue of privacy is not only a question of rights but also, to a great extent, a question of democracy. It is such a right that other rights depend on. It is difficult to use other rights such as freedom of expression, opinion and organisation if we do not know whether we are being monitored and, if so, by whom. Technology development has made it cheaper and easier than ever before to collect and analyse large amounts of data. Data-driven innovation has given us great opportunities. The project Global Watch Center, which the state-owned company SSC runs together with among others Luleå University of Technology, aims to build a center where data from the world's satellites are compiled, analyzed and made easily available using advanced artificial intelligence. Such a centre would provide support to deal with the major global problems through credible and rapid information. Examples of global problems that could be monitored include the felling of rainforests, plastics in the oceans, increasing sea levels and the management of disasters such as forest fires and other consequences of climate change. Peace crises are another example, as is avoiding humanitarian disasters. But computer-driven innovations, if or when they fall into the wrong hands, can pose concrete risks to the individual. The examples of authoritarian regimes suppressing and mapping individual opponents through facial recognition techniques and biometrics are frightening and warning examples of how all technology and innovation can also be misused for evil purposes. Powerful technology can easily collect, track and analyze our movement patterns and behaviors both online and in the physical world. In this way, our integrity may be threatened when our purchasing habits, health, contacts and interests can be identified. Technology development with increased digitalisation and the opportunities that artificial intelligence and the internet of things give us must therefore go hand in hand with ethical and legal perspectives that secure civil rights. Madam President, I would like Two and a half years ago, the EU Data Protection Regulation came into force. It gave us enhanced protection of the individual's right to the protection of personal data. Yet, for a long time in the Western world and in Sweden, we have been in the wake of terrorist attacks and growing serious criminality, introducing increasingly from a privacy point of view intervention legislation. More and more parts of our public space are now being monitored by cameras. Secret coercive measures such as secret interception of electronic communications, secret monitoring of electronic information, secret camera surveillance, secret room eavesdropping, secret data reading, preventive coercive measures and the collection of information for intelligence purposes are, for legitimate law enforcement reasons, exceptions to the protection against intrusion into private and family life that otherwise applies under both the Constitution and the European Convention and the EU Charter of Rights. Nevertheless, we note that both the toolbox of secret coercive measures and their use have increased in recent years. During 2019, 15,923 permits were issued for secret coercive measures. The government estimates that the secret coercive measures play an important role in criminal investigation and have brought real benefits. The risk of the tyranny of small steps is obvious when it comes to the development of privacy-enforcement legislation in Sweden. For legitimate and legitimate purposes as a more effective law enforcement, we have given police, customs and prosecutors more tools and more secret coercive measures. Yet for law enforcement authorities an uneven fight against crime, and then there are further requests for more coercive measures. Last autumn, the Deputy Chief of Police proposed a change of legislation so that the police would have more opportunity to listen to people without any specific suspicion for intelligence purposes. Today, interception of persons is permitted if the person is suspected of a crime that can give at least two years in prison and after a court order. In addition, the rules on clandestine interception have been amended last autumn to create a more effective law enforcement system by allowing the Court to examine an application or notification for additional permits for secret interception without holding a meeting. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes – and has therefore also exercised over and over again – that an investigation should be set up with the task of reviewing the protection of privacy in Swedish law. One important reason for this is the problem of the demarcation between, on the one hand, privacy considerations and, on the other hand, society's interest and duty to effectively combat threats and serious crime, which are becoming increasingly frequent. Technological developments also call for a more in-depth discussion on integrity, transparency, information gathering and exchange of information. I therefore propose that reservation 4 be approved.
i-68e07b04a6408110-35	Madam President, I would like The principle of public access is central to Swedish law. It means that the public, individuals and the media can have an insight into the state's affairs, which are the basis of our common actions. Just as this is a central part of the Swedish legal order, the individual citizen's right to privacy and privacy is also constitutionally protected. Both these principles, the state's public access and the individual citizen's right to privacy, guide our work on public access and confidentiality. Madam President, I would like On the table today is the report of the Constitutional Committee 19, Publicity, Confidentiality and Integrity. The report deals with motion requests on this subject, and I would like to draw attention here to two motions whose meaning would upset a couple of the foundations of Swedish democracy, on the one hand the independence of the legal profession and, on the other hand, the freedom, independence and independence of associations. This is about SD exercise 2019/ 20:544 and 2020/ 21:682. There are some factual errors in the motions. Members of the Bar Association do not have a monopoly on legal services, as the motions actually claim. Nor is the Bar Association fully financed by public funds, but mainly by the membership fee paid by the Members themselves. Thus, some state compensations are not fully paid to the community. But beyond these factual errors, conscious or unconscious, in the motions there is a desire from the SD to fundamentally change the democratic, open and free Sweden as we know it. Madam President, I would like A foundation for the proper functioning of the rule of law is an independent law firm. This and the free, unbound status of lawyers are highlighted in various international agreements, such as the UN Basic Principles on the Role of Lawyers. Furthermore, the European Convention is clear. Then there is the Council of Europe Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers to Member States on the freedom of exercise of the profession of lawyer. In a democracy and the rule of law, it is a fundamental principle that lawyers should be free and independent of state, authorities, courts and other interests. It is necessary to ensure the protection of human rights. Everyone who is democratic understands this and knows the importance of lawyers and lawyers' associations being free from state control. It is therefore ominous that SD proposes that the independence of the Swedish Bar Association be curtailed. For example, the motions promote nationalisation as proposals. Madam President, I would like SD's motion 2020/ 21:682 describes the Swedish Bar Association as follows: our Society is today a powerful lobby and consultation organisation that sometimes acts as a political megaphone in the general debate in general and represents the interests of its own members in particular. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Swedish Bar Association was founded on an individual initiative in 1887, and it is an association that includes all the lawyers in the country. Thus, the Bar Association is not an authority. The Society can be characterised as a private-law association with public-law characteristics. These tasks include the exercise of a certain authority. This applies mainly to disciplinary activities. Provisions concerning the Bar Association and lawyers are included in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Madam President, I would like The language and tone of the SD worry us Social Democrats. Which more powerful lobby and consultation organisations sometimes act as political megaphones in the debate in general, representing the interests of their own members in particular, does the SD want to circumscribe independence and independence for? Is it about LRF, the National Federation of Farmers, which is also a powerful lobby and consultation organisation and which conducts politics in the general debate and represents its members, or perhaps the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which brings together Swedish companies and employers? They too are powerful and run the questions of their members. Or is it LO, TCO, Saco or some of their member unions, such as the Union, IF Metall and the Academic Union? These too are powerful voices in the debate, which are driving the interests of its members. Thank God these organisations do. That's their job, isn't it? Madam President, I would like Our association life with many large organisations representing its members makes Sweden stronger, richer and more democratic. Does that mean that I and we Social Democrats are behind everything that all these organisations are doing? No, absolutely not. We can have views on both the Swedish Bar Association, LRF and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, as well as the union's work and contributions. But for that reason we do not believe that the state should circumscribe their freedom, independence and independence. But that is what hides behind SD's proposals and formulations. That's exactly how right-wing extremism works. It starts with one or a few groups, but it doesn't stop there. Soon the next is next, and the next, and the next, until nothing remains of what we Swedes know as our democracy and the rule of law. Today it is about the Bar Association and tomorrow something else that does not suit the Swedish Democrats. It could be you. It could be me. I hope that Moderates, Christian Democrats and even Liberals will open their eyes and see this. Madam President, I would like That is why, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to make a clear motion to reject these SD motions and to approve the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-68e07b04a6408110-45	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Daniel for his speech, but I still think a great deal is – excuse the expression – nonsense. It is not that we want to ban private-law organisations in any way. Of course they should be, and they have every right in the world to run their agendas. If the Bar Association had been an association, a guild, for lawyers, we would not have had any views on it. But it is a question of the community exercising several forms of authority and also being paid for by tax funds. Even if you say that the community is not funded by tax revenue, it is actually so. The fact that a lawyer is a protected title in Sweden, which only the Bar Association can legitimise, and that the Code provides that if you are to have a legal counsel to be paid, it must be a lawyer. Of course, you may have another legal counsel, but it does not receive any money. If you are to have an attorney who is to be paid, it must be a lawyer licensed by the Bar Association. This means that the community is indirectly funded by tax funds. According to our constitutions, there must also be transparency and access to public documents for an organisation or authority that engages in the exercise of public authority and that is funded by tax funds. As regards matters that come up in the Disciplinary Board, we have seen in recent years that they may be of extreme interest. Why has the criminal lawyer who for the umpteenth time violated the restrictions not been excluded? Why has the Disciplinary Board chosen not to? I think it has a huge public interest, and such an act should in law support be public – not only that we can access the document at grace if we ask the Bar Association. You keep bringing up Hungary and extremism. In Norway there is a supervisory authority under the...
i-68e07b04a6408110-50	I would remind the honourable Member to speak through the President, not due and use first names, but instead use first and last names.
i-68e07b04a6408110-51	Madam President, I would like I did not understand Mrs Strandman's question, but on the basis of what we have today, I feel that it is a good legal order that we have. It is also clearly regulated how it should be. If I find myself in a situation where I need legal support, I'll get that support. If we pay for this with public funds, it is the order we have chosen to have. It is part of human rights and the order we have. I feel that Mr Strandman is mixing elements that I did not even mention in my speech, Madam President.
i-68e07b04a6408110-54	Madam President, I would like Then I ask the question: in what way would it remove the independence of the Bar Association if its scrutiny were carried out by an independent body? Tell him you'd have the same setup we've got with the JO. The JO examines prosecutors and judges, and the JO is very independent; it has to be said that. Say that instead of the Disciplinary Board, where eight out of eleven members are lawyers from the Bar Association, the review was laid out in a similar way as we do with the JO. How would it remove the independence of the Bar Association? I don't understand that. We have judges and prosecutors who are being examined by the JO. Then you might as well say that they are not independent. I don't agree with that at all. I see the problem with an organization that examines itself. It is never possible to get away from the fact that there is self-interest then. That is why we think it is so important that the review be placed on an external body. There is nothing authoritarian about it at all, but rather the opposite. That's how you get a rule of law. After all, allowing an organization to examine itself has no intrinsic value if it leads to it becoming a piece that protects its own. After all, independence disappears completely. So it's a nonsense.
i-68e07b04a6408110-58	Madam President, I would like I repeat what I said earlier. The way we have today is perfect.
i-68e07b04a6408110-59	Madam President, I would like Public administration is an inalienable part of how we have arranged our democratic governance here in Sweden. It is the part of our democratic structure that implements the political decisions we have taken, upholds the laws we have passed and simply ensures that everything works. This makes the area of public administration a very large area. I will try to limit myself to a few aspects of this to make it. The first thing I would like to mention is the need for continued rapid and secure digitisation of public administration. Much has happened in terms of automated decision-making, transparency with information, open data, access to authorities and access to knowledge and information. We have a principle that means that we should digitise as much as possible, but it is going too slowly. The efficiency gains that exist in the digitisation of public administration are large and inalienable at a time when, as usual, there is not always unlimited money. Of course, being able to do more with more efficient digital management is always desirable. Here are some key factors. One is the general digitalisation of our authorities. Then I mean not only digitisation as in having things in digital format, that paper becomes files and ones and zeros, but rather digitisation in the true sense of the word: that things work more efficiently and that we have efficient, well-contracted systems that facilitate the work of the agency, but also the agency's contacts and cooperation with other authorities. In this context, open data becomes an extremely important element enabling other authorities as well as individuals, journalists and companies to access the information generated by the public and which should reasonably be available. The Swedish principle of public access and the framework surrounding it have served us very well and continue to do so, Madam President. But we must dare to develop it so that it does not become an obstacle to an even more open version in the form of open data. The perspective of integrity, which we discussed in the last debate, is, of course, clear even when you look at it. Individual information, which individually may appear to be completely harmless, unless one has an overall picture of the information published in the form of, for example, open data, can be used to map individuals or groups of individuals if this is not done safely. Therefore, it is crucial that we have a central function in the Swedish public administration that has an overall overview of the data published in this particular way. Without having to request the m, they are always available a in a fully open, machine-readable format. But, as I said, one must have an overall picture to see if all the data we publish together can have some unimaginable consequences as they are available to anyone who wants us badly. It's not just about personal integrity. It's about national security. These are vulnerabilities that could be identified. It is about knowledge that an antagonistic power could use. An important part to know in this is that our authorities are not only state agencies but that there are also very many municipal authorities with self-determination and their own ability to make decisions about what to publish. Here too there is a need for coordination – clear ones. Madam President, I would like I'm going to use my last few minutes to talk about the values and governance as a whole. Since our public administration is such an important part of the implementation of our democratic decisions, the values that public administration is based on are very important. Every single official, every individual representative of the state, must remember on every occasion that one is the servant of democracy. A good foundation of values that ensures that we never lose this extremely important insight is therefore, as I have said, very important. The Moderates stand by their demand for a developed civil servant's responsibility. For the individual who has somehow been misinterpreted, misjudged or otherwise misjudged in relation to the administration, where an individual official is responsible for what has happened, this must be possible to develop. It is important for the legitimacy, the long-term legitimacy, of a state administration or a public administration that is becoming increasingly anonymous and sometimes perceived as being further and further away from the Swedish people. Then the need for responsibility and accountability is even more important than it has been back in time. This is not something we refer to as a specific request in this report, but it is nevertheless concerned and under preparation in the Government Office. We Moderates would like to emphasise the importance of a quick approach to this. With that, Madam President, I support reservation number 6.
i-68e07b04a6408110-75	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9 even though we naturally support all our reservations in the report. The government governs the kingdom, and the parliament makes law. The public administration, in turn, has the task of complying with and applying the laws passed by Parliament. Every civil servant, like any other citizen, has a constitutionally protected right to have any opinion he or she wishes in political, religious or other ideological respects. On the other hand, as a representative of an authority, the staff member is obliged to act objectively and impartially. Compliance with this is very important because every single deviation is worrying and repeated deviations are directly detrimental to confidence in our authorities. A civil servant must therefore never act in such a way that confidence in the person concerned or in the objectivity and impartiality of the authority can be disrupted. As a citizen, you should feel that you are treated equally by authorities, no matter what political, religious or other ideological views you have yourself. This is essential for citizens to have confidence in public administration. A loss of trust in authorities can take a very long time to restore and can have far-reaching effects. We see this not least in several of the country's socio-economically vulnerable areas, where confidence in authorities is low compared to the rest of the country. Of course, the vast majority of officials do their work with the integrity and professionalism that their profession requires, but there are also those who are driven by their own agenda or loyalty other than that of the authority. Examples of this can be read about in a report from Örebro University, which shows that 11 percent of municipal officials are activists. Madam President, I would like It is extremely problematic when supposed non-political officials take part in political appeals at the workplace, when senior heads of government express themselves politically in social media or, for that matter, when uniformed professionals are not only allowed but also encouraged to participate in opinion-forming manifestations during working hours. The infamous list of signatures with strange requirements for values that for the election flourished in the government's own premises at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is an example that risks weakening confidence in Swedish authorities. Another example is the Police Authority, which continues to reject licence applications for weapons on the same grounds as the Administrative Court has previously dismissed. In hunting and shooting circles, this has seriously affected confidence in the Police Authority in weapons matters. It would be very unfortunate if it were to spill over in other areas of the Agency's very important activities as well. Madam President, I would like Given that the Riksdag has made an announcement to the Government that a review of the legislation on misconduct should be made with the aim of extending the area of criminality, some of the Swedish Democrats' policy in this area has been met. However, we do not yet know what this investigation will come up with on concrete proposals for constitutional changes or when they can be expected to enter into force. We therefore believe that the government should ensure that these issues are specifically addressed in the review of increased criminal liability for misconduct.
i-68e07b04a6408110-83	Madam President, I would like In today's debate on the KU22 report on public administration, I naturally support all our reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 13. Madam President, I am going to make cuts in a number of areas of the very wide-ranging activity of the public administration, as the previous speaker has mentioned. I'll start with access to government services. Public authorities' information and services are currently largely digitally available, but this will obviously need to be developed. At the same time, human contact is needed. We welcome the fact that we are expanding the service offices. We need to take more steps to improve services to citizens. I believe that the government should work for more of the authorities and more functions to be decentralised. Decentralization can mean both increased efficiency and increased public service across the country. Let me describe my reasoning a little. I see that we can settle with the view that public administration is about the state jobs being in one place. My question, in the light of the enormous urban transformation we are now in the midst of in terms of both the pandemic and digitalisation, is whether it is necessary to live in Karlskrona if you work at Boverket or to live around Karlstad if you work at the Swedish Consumer Agency. To what extent are state authorities an office? Is it, instead, a working environment that, with developed digital methods, can offer a hugely more flexible situation for both the employer and the employee? The state can take the lead for a more space-independent working environment. There is something exciting here as the state authorities are all over the country. If you have your position at the County Administrative Board in Kronoberg County, you might as well take care of it if you live in Malmö or in Mjölby. It's just that you don't have to sit on the train every day. Maybe two days a week is enough. This is already happening today. Many managers and experts spend the day, and we as Members of Parliament have experience of this. Many have been forced to do so with the pandemic. But the social changes that are now taking place, as I said, are accelerating development, and the opportunity is becoming available to more and more people. The concept of going to work is given a new meaning. The state as a collective employer, as well as the employees, has greater opportunities as the critical mass of supply and demand for jobs is increasing. As I see it, the public administration can both join in this development and, by its size, pave the way for a more flexible labour market. You can increase your attractiveness. Having said that, however, I would like to express how impressed I am at the way in which the public administration has managed to reposition the last year, Madam President. Hats off for that! We center parties also believe that we should review the responsibilities of officials. It is worth considering whether the reform that took place in the 1970s went too far. We believe that it is important for the government to ensure that these issues are comprehensively highlighted in connection with the investigation of the responsibilities of officials. We're pointing to a National Security Council. The European Commission in 2005 pointed to some weaknesses. It was about, for example, delaying the signals from an authority that is unable to resolve a crisis on its own. The Commission also considered that proximity to the Prime Minister was of great importance in order to give crisis management authority in relation to the trade departments. The Center Party therefore believes that the government should establish a National Security Council during the Council of State Committee. The new National Security Council should be the government's central crisis management organisation. The Pandemine sheds light on this issue. Another point I would like to make in my speech, Madam President, is democratic participation. In January, the 2020 election inquiry issued the interim report "Enhanced protection for voters in the voter reception". The study would propose, among other things, measures that could improve the possibility for electoral groups with difficulties in exercising their voting rights under the current voting procedure. The interim report states, among other things, that voters who, due to functional variations or the like, are unable to get their own votes in order are helped by voters to the extent necessary. Voters are proposed to be given greater powers by always being present when an individual helps the voter to vote. This strengthens the voter's protection against undue influence. In order also to strengthen the protection of electoral secrecy in these cases, the investigation proposes to introduce into the electoral law an explicit obligation of professional secrecy for individuals that helps a voter to vote. These are examples of what is being proposed; the investigation is now continuing. Madam President, I would like We face major challenges in public administration. It is a policy area that every day, at every moment, affects everyone's lives throughout the country. Unfortunately, we have a great deal to do with the so-called drain pipes. They are based on a thicket of instructions and assignments. Every instruction has its legitimacy, but it becomes a matter that is difficult to penetrate and review. That is why we in the Center Party in our committee motion on simplification have proposed that simplification of the rules should become part of the sustainability work of the authorities. We propose that indexes and key ratios be developed by analogy with what SKR does in relation to municipalities in order to compare and evaluate the simplification efforts of the authorities. There may also need to be incentives to drive simplification. Another challenge is the regional geography of the state. But, Madam President, in these difficult times, we must nevertheless look to the future. Overall, it can be said that it is important to renew government policy. I have mentioned the possibilities for a larger and more space-independent government employer policy that can take the administration into the future. The Center Party believes that we need to review official responsibilities. I would also like to point out what I said about democratic participation and the secret of elections as a foundation for trust and governance in the country. We in the Center Party believe that a National Security Council is needed.
i-68e07b04a6408110-99	Madam President, I would like It may appear that a report on the exercise of public administration is irrelevant and dry. It can be admitted that sometimes it can be a bit dry when the KU's reports are debated. I'm perfectly clear on that. However, this report and our debate are not unimportant, and they move the public administration a little forward. Even motions that the KU as a whole does not like to raise questions for discussion and sharpen it all, so that the state of things gets better. Even when we reject motions, the majority still have to react to the proposals and put them forward. Madam President, I would like I would like to take such an example that shows that it actually pays off and that exercising makes the world a little better. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 12 on the regulation of language interpreters. It is not the only exercise that the KD has reserved for. Of course, we support all our reservations, but this is the only one we support. This is an issue in which the Christian Democrats have been exercising for quite a few years. It may not have happened much yet, but the background is that there is no player who reviews the quality of interpreters. In fact, most of the interpreters who are active today do not have formal interpreter training. A survey shows that 95 percent of the interpreters employed by the Employment Service are not authorised. We believe that this is a threat to the legal certainty of those who need an interpreter. It will also be more difficult for the officials of the Agency to trust the translation. Then the assessments will be worse. Then there is the question of child interpretation, that is, that parents are helped by their children to make themselves understood. According to the Tolk investigation, it has negative effects. Indeed, this type of interpretation is still being used. According to the Christian Democrats, child interpretation represents far too much responsibility for children. Their knowledge can be limited, and we cannot rely on the children's judgment. It can determine the future of an entire family, and it is too much of a burden to put on their shoulders. I therefore believe that the government should take the initiative to ban child interpretation and create state authorisation, registration and training for interpreters. Madam President, I would like Now is not the first time I have stood here and said this. In fact, the government has set up an investigation, and that investigation has delivered its results. It did so in December 2018. It is called To understand and be understood dd – a reformed framework for interpreters in spoken languages, SOU 2018:83. The investigation agrees with what I'm saying here, but nothing happens. It's stomping. The only message is that the report is being prepared within the Government Office. The investigation came in 2018, and it proposes that from 2024 it should no longer be possible to work as an interpreter within the state if you do not have training and authorisation, other than in exceptional cases. So the role of the Christian Democrats' motion here is to kick-start the government. It is not enough to say year after year that the matter is being prepared. After all, the problem that we originally mentioned remains. That is why I support the motion. Otherwise, we agree with the previous speaker, Per Schöldberg from the Center. In fact, I think I could sign everything he said, and then we're in different parties. There you can see that the debate highlights important issues. I am thinking of what the Center emphasised about access to government services. We also have a reservation that points out that service offices would be a good way to gather the services of different authorities, so that basic government services are available throughout the country. We believe that the government should promote this. We just heard a representative of the Center say that he shared that view. In this way, the KU's work is progressing slowly but surely, and the public administration is slowly but surely somewhat better.
i-68e07b04a6408110-108	Madam President, I would like Public administration in the form of state authorities, municipalities and regions is of great importance for the development of society. A year like this, when we pay various attention to the 100th anniversary of democracy in Sweden, with women's and men's self-evident right to vote, there may be particular reason to emphasise these very issues of our common public administration. Democracy as such is, of course, a direct guide to the activities carried out and the decisions taken every day. It is largely through the work carried out in these different bodies that trust and trust in society are created. Madam President, I would like When I meet and converse with people working in the public sector, it is precisely the question of working for the common good, for Sweden, that one wants to highlight. Anyone who represents the state should, of course, be able to take pride in his role. This in itself strengthens trust and responsibility. Judging by the report by the Constitutional Committee, the KU22, which we are now discussing and which contains some 140 requests for exercise on public administration, there is a great deal of commitment and interest in the strong development of our common sector. Issues of increased government presence throughout the country, competence development, trust and responsibility, the roles of municipalities and regions, civic contact, official responsibility and participation are some examples of issues highlighted. I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved, and that also means rejecting the motions. Madam President, I would like If we take an international look, we can see that the Swedish people have a high level of confidence in government agencies and authorities, and that has been the case for a long time. For example, the corruption index is constantly at low levels. On the other hand, as everyone can safely see, there is no reason to settle down and feel contentment in general, but of course it is a question of constantly self-critically moving forward, correcting shortcomings that exist and developing the various institutions of society according to the needs and new conditions that are constantly emerging. The question of access to government services throughout Sweden is particularly important, and it is also rightly a priority. In March 2019, the Government commissioned the county administrative boards to map the state presence in the counties and municipalities. In December 2019, the Government commissioned a special investigator to analyse and propose how the service activities of the state service agencies could be developed. In March 2020 an interim report was submitted on this, and in December of the same year the final report was submitted. This shows that Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Tax Agency started to cooperate on local services in joint offices as early as 2008. The Pension Authority was also involved after its formation in 2010. The central government service centre took over responsibility for the local service offices in June 2019 and is now responsible for a joint organisation for local government services, which, in addition to the agencies mentioned above, also includes Arbetsförmedlingen's customer care activities. There are now 117 service offices divided into 11 0 of the country's 290 municipalities, from Kiruna in the north to Trelleborg in the south. For my part, I visited some time before the current restrictions were imposed – yes, it is quite a long time ago – the service office in the municipality of Klippan and took part in the activities and reasoned with the staff. The experience of this visit is good: Cooperation and contact with citizens is the focus. At the service offices about 3 million customer visits are made a year, and about 800 administrators work there. The focus on the establishment of local service offices continues. This year they will be opened in Ulricehamn and Gothenburg for summer and in Malmö and Stockholm during late autumn. It may be worth pointing out that demographic and geographical variations have been taken into account and four different categories of areas have been identified: rural and rural areas, areas particularly affected by the closure of other government activities, metropolitan areas and socially vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like I will also address a discussion on fundamental values and training and competence development for employees. A motion proposes an investigation to ensure that people employed in public activities respect democratic values of everyone's rights and equal value and equality. Another exercise addresses the importance of increased dialogue with the public, response and communication. The current scheme is for employees of administrative authorities governed by the Government to be employed in accordance with Chapter 12 of the Government Act. Section 5 of the Government or the authority that the Government decides. In deciding on state employment, consideration shall be given to factual grounds such as merit and skill. It should be stressed that both a core mission and a trust delegation have been set up to work in depth on these issues. Statskontoret has also been tasked with promoting and coordinating the work based on these starting points. Madam President, I would like In a number of exercises, the issue of increasing the momentum of digitalisation in public administration is raised. The Government's goal for digitalisation policy is that Sweden should be the best in the world to use online opportunities. Technology will be developed in the service of man. It is also about supporting innovation and participation. The government's assessment is that the prerequisites are good to achieve the overall objective of digitalisation policy. At the same time, there are challenges that contribute to our country not yet being the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. However, during the current pandemic, the importance has increased further and development has been driven. There is also great potential for the use of AI, artificial intelligence, in the public administration. However, it is of great importance in this context that respect for data protection and privacy be maintained and included in developments. In January this year, the Swedish Digital Administration Agency was commissioned by the Government to provide legal support to the public administration on common digitisation issues. On the basis of all the work under way and the initiatives taken, the committee sees no reason to propose any announcement on digital services in the administration. However, there is every reason to see this work and this aspect of social development as a priority task in the future. However, it must be stressed that digitalisation should take place in human service.
i-68e07b04a6408110-126	Madam President, I would like Although it has been 21 years since the Riksdag decided that Sweden would ratify the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, according to a recent survey, only one in four Swedish people know that Jews, Roma, Swedes, Sami and we tornadoes are recognised as national minorities. The Sami also have a special status as indigenous peoples, Europe's only. It is us and our national minority languages, meänkieli, Finnish, Sami, Yiddish and Romani chib, this debate and this policy is all about. The commitments that Sweden made when we acceded to the Convention and the Charter relate to three things: to protect the survival of national minorities, to strengthen opportunities for influence and to support minority languages so that they survive. Madam President, I would like We're here, we're still here, and the languages have survived another year. But that's against all odds, because the language exchange process is inexorable. That is why I always feel stressed when we come to the access of these individual rightholders to their, to our, minority political rights: the right to learn their language in school, the right to learn to read, write and speak in their language, the right to feel safe even when you are old and perhaps memory and the Swedish language is failing. I know that it is a fight against the clock, because every year, every month, languages die in Europe and in the world. Unfortunately, the development of protecting and promoting minority languages in Sweden is too slow. It is not just me, the Center Party and the minorities' own organisations who say that. So does the government's own investigation. Almost a year ago, the report on monitoring minority policy was submitted to the government. It coincided with the 20th anniversary of Swedish minority policy, and the investigation delivered proposals to support and facilitate the implementation of minority rights locally and regionally. The investigator expressed the need for a shift in work to raise the bar in minority work, and the investigation's proposal was therefore aimed at giving a boost to minority policy. The investigator said that the proposals would create the engine that the policy needs, with less bureaucracy and more workshop, and that it was time to put a higher gear into minority policy. Madam President, I would like No one can blame the government for lacking ambition for minority politics. There's always ambition. On the other hand, there is a lack of political will to implement minority policies. Instead of implementing concrete, well-examined proposals that exist within the Government Office, the government is wasting time and hiding behind inter-agency investigations. As early as 2018, Jarmo Lainio presented a report on how pupils' opportunities to develop their minority languages in school can be strengthened. The government has not even referred the report. There are proposals to set up language centres for minority languages. Neither have they come to their place. It is a good thing that the initiative on national resource libraries is now being implemented, but if languages are to be revitalised, more language management efforts need to be carried out. There, language centres for minority languages are crucial. This has been demonstrated by the South Sami language centre, and I am convinced that the corresponding language centre for Meänkieli in Övertorneå would have the same meaning. When, according to the government's investigators, there is a need for more workshop and a higher gear in minority policy, I know that she has listened to the national minorities, their organisations and representatives, because that is exactly what they have long demanded of us. Madam President, I would like Among the national minorities, the Sami have a special status as indigenous peoples. Sweden and Europe have only one indigenous people, and that is the Sami people. In order to increase understanding of the indigenous Sami people and Sweden's international legal responsibility for the Sami people and to ensure that Sami rights require action in a wide range of policy areas, the Center Party proposes that a forum for dialogue between the Swedish parliament and the Sami elected body Sametinget be developed. I therefore support the Center Party's reservation number 3. Following the decision of the Supreme Court in the so-called Girjas case, which concerned the right to allow small game hunting and fishing in the area of the Sami village, it is clear to the Center Party that the issue must be dealt with politically in order to bring about locally produced solutions in dialogue both between Sami and non-Sames. We do not believe that more lengthy and exhausting legal proceedings are the way forward. Conflicts over who – the state or the Sami – possesses these rights have been going on for decades but have never been dealt with politically so far. The Girjas judgment can also be seen as a consequence of at least a hundred years of Sami policy, in which the state has remained passive in investigating Sami rights issues. The Girjas judgment raises a number of questions. It may also have implications for how future disputes related to soil and natural resources in the field of reindeer husbandry may develop. It raises the need to investigate issues of hunting and fishing rights for the Sami who are outside the Sami villages, but also public, and not least local, opportunities to hunt and fish. The Center Party believes that the first step forward in a comprehensive process to strengthen Sami rights and achieve consensus and mutual respect at local level must now be a thorough investigation of the consequences of the Girjas judgment. Such an investigation must focus on a thorough and balanced analysis of the consequences of the judgment, with the aim of presenting well-deserved fundamental positions on how both the reindeer industry law and the legal area in general can be developed in an inclusive and legally secure manner for both the Sami and others concerned.
i-68e07b04a6408110-141	Madam President, I would like I would first like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. Then I would like to take this opportunity to thank the previous Member for speaking so well on the issue of language. I certainly agree that it is an emergency. This shows the pressing issues that we are discussing here in Parliament sometimes, even though, especially now that it is empty, it can feel a little stiff and boring. These are questions that are very specific and that mean a great deal to everyone concerned. Madam President, I would like I was a pretty good student at school when I was a kid. I got good grades, and it was easy for me to learn. I followed and was very interested, especially in social issues and history. Maybe that's why I'm standing here in the speaker's chair today, who knows? Nevertheless, in recent years I have come to realize that I have big blind spots in my education. I did not know, for example, that there are five national minorities or an indigenous people in Sweden. Certainly I had heard of the Jews in connection with the Second World War and the Holocaust, and certainly I had heard that there were some who were called Sami and who lived in northern Sweden, but for me, Madam President, everything was above Stockholm's northern Sweden. And of course I'd seen Katitzi on TV and maybe read some book, but much more than that I didn't know. I didn't even know there was a Swedish and a Toredal minority. And it was only a few years ago that I learned that Sami is not a language but five. As an adult, I have tried to learn more, understand and correct these blind spots, but it is only to be realized that I will never succeed in doing so. That's why I was very upset a few years ago when the Swedish National Agency for Education proposed that minority knowledge be removed from history education. Thankfully, after criticism, that proposal was backed up. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a dark history of how national minorities and indigenous peoples have been treated. Although it happened not many years ago and people have experienced it themselves, it is unknown to many. This weekend I saw the TV series I was a lower race on SVT. It aroused a tremendous amount of emotion in me. I became angry, sad and frustrated. It is difficult to understand the extent of what the state has done historically, but also the consequences and consequences of this today. Our history affects our time, and if you do not learn from history, there is a risk that it will repeat itself. And if you do not know the history of how the national minorities and indigenous Sami have been treated in Sweden, it is much more difficult to understand why they have special rights. Madam President, I would like The truth must be brought to light, which is why we in the Left Party believe that it is positive that there is work going on with truth commissions. We already know a lot. We know that the policy of the state was for a long time to divide and stigmatise the Sami. The Sami were considered only fit to live in the traditional Sami way and were therefore prevented from farming and building permanent settlements. The children were also not allowed to attend the regular school. In 1928 the Riksdag decided that the Sami who were not reindeer herders should have no Sami rights. For example, they had no right to hunt and fish in the areas where their ancestors lived. In this way the state drew a sharp line between the Sami who live in reindeer husbandry and those who make a living on other things. As the previous Member mentioned, the Girjas judgment is an example of the split that exists between Sami and Sami who are not reindeer herders. Although the rights of the Sami have been strengthened in recent decades, international bodies such as the UN and the Council of Europe repeatedly point out the shortcomings that Sweden has in relation to the rights of Sami people as indigenous peoples and how this ongoing discrimination affects the situation of Sami people. For example, a survey shows that two out of three Sami people say that they have been exposed to racism based on their being a Sami. This racism is not going on historically; it is now going on, today, in Sweden. There's no time to wait. Many issues are urgent, and it is high time to translate beautiful words and high ambitions into active action. If you are serious about what you say, it is more of active action and fewer fine words that are needed in the future. One of the most urgent questions concerns language. We see minority languages dwindling more and more quickly and threatened. It would be devastating, and it cannot be restored if that happens. Therefore, the state needs to take a larger and more active role in promoting and strengthening all minority languages. Madam President, I would like The government has repeatedly said that they want to work towards ratification of the ILO 169. The situation of the Sami people calls on the government to take seriously the matter in order to guarantee the rights of the Sami people as indigenous peoples. A greater commitment by the government is needed to create the consensus between the various stakeholders that is a prerequisite for the ratification of the ILO Convention. We believe that the government should urgently come to Parliament with a concrete proposal to ratify the ILO 169. Sweden has had over ten years to implement the UN Declaration of Indigenous Peoples and over thirty years to ratify the ILO 169. In fact, it is embarrassing that Sweden is violating these fundamental principles of international law. Madam President, I would like It is clear that further action is needed to strengthen the influence and ability of all national minorities to preserve and develop their languages. The Roma minority is particularly vulnerable to discrimination, including in the labour and housing markets. Cumulative cultural institutions are also lacking for this group. Antiziganism is widespread throughout Europe, and work on Roma inclusion is needed and carried out throughout the EU. But it's more or less fortunate, to say the least. The State budget for this year, 2021, therefore contained a special appropriation for the Roma minority. It was 1 1⁄2 million, but we think that is far too pitiful in view of the great needs that exist. On the Left side, we sometimes wonder whether we really are serious about our fine words and high ambitions when we do not set aside resources so that what we say we want to achieve can be achieved.
i-68e07b04a6408110-157	Madam President, I would like As my two colleagues said earlier, these are very important issues, which arouse emotions, quite rightly – they should do so. The report deals with motions from the general period of exercise which concern minority issues. The minority policy of the Moderates is about strengthening the empowerment and influence of national minorities and working to keep their language and culture alive. Since 2009, there has been a minority policy based on five recognised minorities in Sweden, which has been well described here in previous speeches. According to the law, national minorities have special fundamental rights, such as influence on matters of relevance to them. In addition, the State has a responsibility not only to preserve but also to promote national minority languages. This is a work that must be constantly developed, and there is still much to be done. Madam President, I would like Another important starting point in our policy is the protection of the rights and freedoms of every person. As far as minorities are concerned, their rights must be safeguarded and the work against hate crimes strengthened both here in Sweden and in the rest of Europe. What we can see and unfortunately note is that there are currents in our society that are trying to counter these rights, rights that should really be self-evident to everyone. All people have the right to feel safe, and no one should have to be exposed to threats, hatred or discrimination on the grounds of e.g. ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or gender. But unfortunately, the reality is different. Too many people are directly or indirectly exposed to threats, hatred or discrimination. 2018 – a few years ago, but it is from this year that we have the latest statistics from Brå – 7 090 hate crimes were reported in Sweden. Compared to the number of reported hate crimes in 2013, there was an increase of 29 per cent. Hate crime, prejudice and discrimination have become a serious social problem. Madam President, I would like The Jewish group is particularly vulnerable. The number of hate crimes with anti-Semitic motives reported to the police has increased according to statistics from the Crime Prevention Council. This is, to say the least, a very worrying development. We remember a few years ago when, after repeated threats, the Jewish association in Umeå was forced to close down its activities. That same year, masked men with burning objects attacked the synagogue in Gothenburg. The situation in Malmö has been serious for a long time. The synagogue in Malmö has received recurring threats. And a recent report from the City of Malmö and the Jewish Church shows that there is a clear incidence of hate crimes against Jewish individuals in Malmö schools. Another alarming conclusion in the same report is that of Jewish youths' perceived insecurity. As a result of being subjected to hate crimes, and feeling anxious about being subjected to further, young people's everyday lives are affected and limited. Because they feel this concern for their personal safety, they hide their Jewish identity. This is a failure for Sweden. Madam President, I would like For the Moderates it is a priority to make Sweden safer for everyone. To stand up clearly against anti-Semitism and other forms of extremism is necessary in order to achieve this goal. We see today, unfortunately, how extremists of various kinds create insecurity and fertilise mistrust in society. This must be vigorously countered, and it must be made clear that we in our country do not accept threats, hatred or attacks with anti-Semitic signs. The Moderates have therefore proposed that zero tolerance to anti-Semitism should apply in Swedish schools and that each incident should be subject to notification. With regard to the security of Jewish congregations, the state must assume increased responsibility. We also want a ban on participating in the activities of violent organisations, such as the Nordic Resistance. And, Madam President, no tax funds should be allocated to organisations that do not share our fundamental democratic values. Madam President, I would like The situation of the Jewish minority in Sweden shows the importance of society standing up for national minorities and their rights. In several announcements, the Moderates have urged the government to act, including to increase the security of religions, such as Jewish synagogues, and to continuously increase knowledge of anti-Semitism. But it is clear that more needs to be done. The Moderates will always stand up for the right to safety and security, no matter who you are, where you come from or what group you belong to. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in the KU25.
i-68e07b04a6408110-173	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Many things can be said about minority policy, and it is gratifying that we have many motions and questions in this report to debate. This shows an interest and commitment from the members of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Even so, it may sometimes feel like too little is happening. However, I would also like to remind you that during this parliamentary term some important decisions have been taken to strengthen minority policy. There are also a number of proposals from the Government that the Riksdag will deal with in the near future. I would like to mention a number of things. The report 'Higher gear in minority policy' has examined how coordination, monitoring and governance should be organised in minority policy. The aim has been to ensure an appropriate organisation of tasks in order to contribute to a strengthened minority policy. A museum of the Holocaust will be established. An authority for Roma issues is in preparation. The Government supports Finnish culture in Sweden. The government is preparing the bill for a consultation arrangement for the Sami people. The establishment of so-called resource libraries will address the substandard supply of literature in minority languages. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been tasked with making proposals on how national coordination of teaching in the national minority languages of the school system can be organised in order to strengthen language teaching. Work is also under way on the establishment of a language centre. However, as many speakers before me have pointed out, more needs to be done, of course. I would like to mention in particular the lack of knowledge of national minorities and indigenous peoples that characterises all levels of society. Here, for example, the school's history teaching must be considerably improved. In view of the declared ambition of many parties, I have great hope that we can find parliamentary majorities to speed up the work. Madam President, I would like The feeling of exclusion is probably something that all minority groups in society have met. This applies not least to the Roma population. A number of initiatives are under way, including the EU strategic framework for Roma equality, inclusion and participation. We have Sweden's own strategy for Roma inclusion. We have had a Commission against anti-Ziganism that has proposed that Sweden set up an authority for Roma issues, and the government prepares this proposal. We Social Democrats know that there are many points of view on this issue. However, we also believe that it is necessary to take steps in this regard. Perhaps a first step would be to work with cultural and language issues and to contribute with knowledge-raising efforts. Madam President, I would like The overall goal of the Sami policy is to promote a living Sami culture based on ecologically sustainable reindeer husbandry and other Sami industries. In the wake of the Girjas judgment, it is important that the investigation into the reindeer nutrition law is in place. These are not simple questions. These are issues of great conflict of interest. But we cannot fail to take political responsibility simply because it is difficult. In its 2019 Annual Report, the Supreme Court notes that Parliament's decision to take or not to take legislative action in a particular area often has a direct bearing on the appeal in the Supreme Court. If the Riksdag had instead chosen to implement legislation, it would probably have lacked both the need and the scope for the Supreme Court to fill out the applicable law. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to highlight the truth commissions as an important element in taking minority policy to the next level. It is important that we review history and learn from it so that it never repeats itself. Both the Sametinget and the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund are now working on their own process when it comes to truth commissions. Norway, Sweden and Finland have all started work with Truth and Reconciliation Commissions. These processes will help to highlight historical wrongs and increase understanding of the current situation. It is important that we also have a joint Nordic work on this and that we learn from each process. It will help to raise the level of knowledge in terms of racism and discrimination – in history and in the present. Madam President, I would like Minority issues are burning issues in us, and they are even more burning in Europe. Around the world, minorities are being oppressed. They are expelled from their homes, colonized and murdered. The right-wing populism and nationalism that have swept over the world have, by their prejudiced attitude towards anyone who in any way deviates from the standard they wish to assert the rights of limited minorities. We must be sensitive to what is happening, and we therefore need to demonstrate our support for the work that is taking place in both the Council of Europe and the European Union. We have a certain role not only to be responsive but also to act concretely and contribute to the international work. Madam President, I would like The thought that a country consists of a people, a culture and an identity has been tried in Sweden. It went terribly badly. Both racial biology and forced assimilation have left a deep mark on the population, and I would like to recommend, just like Jessica Wetterling, that you take a look at SVT's series on racial biology. I would like to exemplify this with a quote from the preliminary study made by the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund regarding the Truth Commission. It's called then I was like a prisoner. In it the interviewer Göran speaks to a person – F– who has been involved in racial biology concretely, but in another time. 中 Göran: You got to start a new school when you moved to Ludvika, what was it like? Q: When I got there, when I was introduced. It was the first day I got there in class. Then the teacher took, I will not mention his name, he is probably dead, but I do not mention the name, but I know exactly what his name is. Then he called me out. And then he sat and showed me the cheekbones, the shape of the face, how I look in the body length, and the length of the legs and all together. This is typical, what he said, Finnish-Ugric race, he said clearly. Göran: Can you describe the feeling? Q: That's most of all what I say, that you start talking about a look. It felt uncomfortable. There were no measurements, but he pointed to the cheekbones, high cheeks, and the shape of the face that is oval, but he described everything and so the shape of the body. He didn't measure, but this is 1964! It is long after these skull measurements they did, they were well up in Pajala also in Tornedalen. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I would like to exemplify with this that what happened in the Torne Valley and in northern Sweden, against both tornadoes and Sami, is something that has left a deep mark on our population. They're still sitting there. And if there are traces as late as 1964, one can understand how it affects us even today. The pride of its own district, language and culture disappeared; it was to be polished away. Traditions fell into oblivion. Children, grandchildren and future generations have lost some of their heritage and language. I and many more are a product of this. That is why minority policy is so important. It is about recovering the languages and cultures we have lost. Finally, Madam President, it is not possible to leave the debate on minority policy without commenting on the consequences of the coronapndemin. Those of us who belong to minorities and are border residents have been extremely affected, above all, by border restrictions. Renaissance areas span national boundaries, and reindeer husbands have had to worry about whether they will cope with winter bait when borders have been restricted. The fence on the border between Sweden and Finland has divided the Torne Valley in half, which has created further severe wounds and highlighted the shortcomings in the Nordic cooperation. It is my hope that the governments of each country will now join forces and make joint investments in order to once again strengthen our cooperation and our minority communities. I apologise for exceeding my speaking time.
i-68e07b04a6408110-204	Madam President, I would like As Tuve Skånberg said in a previous speech, it often gets very dry when the KU debates. However, we are not dry, Tuve; I agree with you! On this subject, I think all the previous speakers have highlighted precisely the human dimension. This is very much about identity – about everyone's right to their own identity in Sweden. I would like to take myself as an example and tell you how things can go. I was born in Finland, in a Swedish-speaking minority. When I was a kid, everyone could speak Swedish and Finnish – when you went into a store, when you ordered tickets and when you talked to your relatives. It's not like that anymore, it's completely different. Today, when I go to family reunions, there are many new, young relatives I can't talk to, because they don't know Swedish. I don't know Finnish. Of the 300 000 Swedish speakers in Finland, many of the young people today say: When I take the bus home or go home after a party and my mother calls, I answer in Finnish. I don't answer in Swedish, because I know I can get in trouble if someone hears me. This is a neighbouring country in which politics has taken a completely different path from the one we are now drawing up guidelines for here in Sweden. So strong is this policy, and so serious is what we are set to guard. Make sure that the language is allowed to be carried by each of those who need it! It's about people who need a different language, in addition to Swedish, to feel whole. In fact, some people today feel that there is no reason to have a specific policy for Sweden's Sami or for so-called verige finns, Roma, Jews and tornadoes. The short answer to that is, of course, that all these groups have a long history in our country and that they have all been subjected to an assimilation policy that did not allow them to speak their language or practice their culture. We know that prejudice is still very much alive and that discrimination persists. People are assessed or assigned attributes based on a group rather than on an individual basis and on their own merits. This is the simple and obvious reason why a specific policy is needed for our national minorities. The aim of minority policy is to provide protection, to strengthen opportunities for influence and to support culture and language so that it is kept alive. It is not about freezing time, because languages, traditions and cultures are always changing. Nor is it a question of creating isolated cultures in parallel societies, for minority policy must always be based on the individual's right to define himself. It is also important that we take into account in minority policy that issues that are of particular concern to one particular minority are not necessarily that of another. For example, there are differences in exposure to hate crime and discrimination, of which we are all painfully aware. It updates the link between minority policy and other policies, such as democracy policy and legal certainty. Madam President, I would like We're approaching elections, and it's fast now. I therefore often wonder how we can strengthen democracy, freedom of expression and expression and the rule of law. We have a number of parliamentary investigations in this area that are either ready or are still doing their work. The Swedish minority policy is based on the parliamentary decisions to ratify the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. In addition, there are legislation, administrative areas and other specific provisions relating to minority languages. The recognition of national minorities and minority languages is thus based on parliamentary decisions, and consequently a new parliamentary majority can decide to change or suspend the status of minority groups or languages. Unfortunately, I believe that, in order to prevent rapid and drastic changes for national minorities and minority languages, we need to include them in the form of government. This would not involve any legal or international change in their status, but it would provide better guarantees against sudden and rather unannounced changes. This issue should therefore be included in future constitutional reviews. As the report on monitoring minority policy noted last year, there are shortcomings in the current system of strategic coordination and follow-up of state minority policy. The same applies very much to municipalities and regions, where we know that minority political work is lacking. This also applies to those municipalities that actually belong to one of our administrative areas. There is a need for a better structure for how target management and follow-up takes place within municipalities and regions, because without such mechanisms all our beautiful documents risk becoming shelves. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are far too many reasons to still have a special policy for Sweden's Sami, Swedish Finns, Roma, Jews and tornadoes. It's not about us and them; we're all just as Swedish. Some, however, have more facets in their Swedishness than others, and it is on us elected democrats to make sure that yesterday's assimilation policy is forever relegated to the garbage can where it belongs.
i-68e07b04a6408110-217	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the previous speaker for sharing a wealth of knowledge and personal experience in the area we are discussing today. I would also like, at the outset, to support the proposal in the committee's report. Sweden has a responsibility for enabling persons belonging to national minorities to enjoy all human rights effectively on an equal footing with the majority population. The differences that exist between the opportunities of the majority population and minorities are countering both the cohesion of society and the individual's ability to take part as an individual in what one is entitled to. It goes without saying that racism, anti-Semitism and anti-Ziganism, as well as threats and crimes committed against someone because they belong to a minority, are seriously tearing the cohesion of society apart. The current policy governance of this area has been reviewed by a specific study and has not been considered sufficiently effective. Work on the outcome of the investigation Higher gear in minority policy needs to be continued, and this is now being prepared within the Government Office. Continued efforts are needed in language, education and culture. Further measures to strengthen minority languages in Sweden may be to indicate minority languages as a subject in the School Act and introduce new provisions on teaching in national minority languages for all compulsory school forms as well as for upper secondary and secondary schools. It is important that minority languages are guaranteed more teaching time within the framework of the school day. This is important for the protection of all minority languages. Those of you who struggle to learn a language also know that you need a lot of training in language – it is not enough with an hour a week, but when you learn a language, this needs to be a part of everyday life. However, the field of education alone cannot guarantee the survival of languages. The cultures and minority languages of national minorities must be widely supported as part of a Swedish cultural heritage and diversity. More people need to contribute to the use of languages, and the public – municipalities, regions and authorities – need to provide relevant and accurate information on the rights they have as a minority and when speaking a minority language. As the investigation suggests, Swedish minority policy needs a higher gear, but today we have also heard about some processes that require their time. Preparations are under way for a Truth Commission for the Sami people. During the winter, Samer has had to describe what expectations you have of the Truth Commission and what you think is important that it deals with. As far as the indigenous Sami are concerned, the Green Party wishes to emphasise the importance of the consultation arrangements now being prepared. It is not enough to say that you want Sami or other minorities to have more influence on issues that affect them, but you have to do something different to make it happen in reality. A concrete opportunity to show that Sami are included in issues that affect them could be the forthcoming investigation of the reindeer industry law. It is a result of the Giryas judgment, which we have heard of earlier today. The Nordic Sami Convention also needs to be continued. Finally, we in the Green Party want Sweden to join the ILO 169. Also for tornadoes, käner and lantalaiset work is under way on a Truth and Reconciliation Commission. During the winter, important assignments have been given to researchers, and discussions with individuals have begun. These processes are important and require sufficient time. It can also be easily understood that things based on conversations between people – especially conversations that can be difficult experiences – have been affected by the pandemic because we have not been able to meet as we usually do. A higher gear in minority policies is also needed in terms of Roma inclusion. Sweden has a strategy for Roma inclusion that extends until 2032. The goal is for the Roma who turn 20 then to have equal opportunities in life as those who are not rum. In order to achieve this, action is needed at national, regional and local level, and Roma representatives need to be involved.
i-68e07b04a6408110-231	Madam President, I would like The good society we create together. The Moderates believe that some of the responses to the challenges we see in society lie in a systematically deepened and improved cooperation between different parts of public society and civil society. This requires clear political signals and is a priority and important area. I looked a little into old motions on reports on civil society and the religions and found a motion from 2009 in which the parties of the alliance government presented a new policy for civil society aimed at highlighting the importance of civil society, developing and clarifying the relationship between the state and civil society, and taking a holistic approach to general issues of civil society and its conditions. The athletes stressed that civil society has an important role to play in bringing about participation, responsibility and democracy through the activities carried out and wanted to emphasise the importance of civil society as a bearer of democracy. The motion is ten years old, but the direction is still clear. Madam President, I would like A strong Sweden needs both public and business activities and voluntary communities. Not least in this period of coronapandemia, it is important for cohesion and democracy. Civil society organisations and members also play a concrete role in different ways. Volunteering is strong in our country. There are many of us who take time and are involved in different ways in different organisations to help in society when needed. These are forces that are needed but should not be directed in detail by politicians and authorities. Civil society organisations shall be based on the voluntary involvement of individuals. The task of politics is to contribute to good conditions for an independent civil society, not to limit or regulate in detail. Madam President, I would like We believe that state support for civil society is important and should continue. However, in order for the aid to be perceived as legitimate, it must be transparent. The eligibility criteria shall be clear. They should not be interpreted in different ways, and there should be a thorough examination and follow-up of how the aid is used. Tax money should never be paid out to organisations that do not share the fundamental democratic values of Swedish society. We want to ensure that public funds are not allocated to activities that risk promoting or supporting radicalism, honour repression or violent extremism, and we want to have respect for the rights of girls and women. The fact that aid is simply being wasted on projects that are not being implemented is also unacceptable. Unfortunately, shortcomings have been revealed in this area, and we take this very seriously. In the long term, it is devastating for the legitimacy of state support for civil society but also for the social community. Legislation, regulatory framework and working methods should be reviewed to the extent necessary to ensure the effective use of support to civil society. Madam President, I would like Here we Moderates have taken a committee initiative for a proper, independent review of the contributions. But to this issue we will come back later in the spring. Madam President, I would like The fact that civil society is able to finance its activities through sources of income other than State aid is important for its independence. This may, for example, give an organisation greater freedom to determine which actions are to be prioritised, rather than deciding on the order of priority in relation to the type of State aid available. Non-profit activities are a major asset for society. It is forces that cannot or should not be governed by politicians and authorities. On the other hand, voluntary activities should be supported and encouraged. And as I have already said: Volunteering is strong in Sweden. Adults and young people take part in security walks on weekend nights, help the homeless and engage in honorary repression. Pensioners take time for voluntary work in connection with schools and leisure activities. Churches, communities and other non-profit organizations offer food and a bed to sleep in. Madam President, I would like The good society we create together. We Moderates believe that systematic, deepened and improved cooperation between, for example, schools, health care, social services, care for the elderly, culture and civil society can be a response to the societal challenges we have at the moment. But we also want to encourage greater collaboration and cooperation between social services, school health care, youth psychiatry and the non-profit sector, such as sports associations and the cultural sector. There are many great opportunities to make use of each other's knowledge and commitment, and the state can be given the task of systematically compiling the good examples. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to highlight the language, which is the very basis for entering society. Civil society's interfaces allow them not only to offer social contacts and to engage in personal interests, but also to provide more systematic teaching in the Swedish language. Attempts have been made to this end, and the ability of voluntary organisations to conduct Swedish education can be increased. An association that I myself am involved in has every week had an open house with people who want to talk, even in pandemic times when we have been able to implement it by phone, digitally or in personal meetings to the extent that it has been possible. Being able to stand up and help a family that has just arrived in Sweden with understanding Swedish society is an important task and provides a mutual exchange. Madam President, I would like After a simplified motion committee, the committee has rejected a number of motions for resolutions. We Moderates naturally support these, as our representatives have done in the past. In this report, however, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-68e07b04a6408110-246	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of reservation 3 from the Swedish Democrats, although I naturally support all the Swedish democratic reservations. Surely all of us participants in this debate agree on the seriousness and difficulties of many of the trials that civil society endures and have endured in Sweden since the Corona crisis took off about a year ago. Civil society is very important for people's social lives, so the limiting impact on people's lives of the Corona restrictions, many times indeed necessary ones, must be taken very seriously. Participation in association life often has a positive impact on, for example, physical and mental health and knowledge development in different areas and provides not least lessons on democratic processes. When the possibility of developing in these areas is adversely affected, when it is not possible to meet and operate as usual, one should of course be concerned about the effects it has on Swedish society as a whole, not least in the longer term. Conducting a good civil society policy is always important, but it is even more emphasised in these times, I think. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have supported much of what the government has put forward at Parliament's table in support of civil society due to the Corona crisis and subsequent restrictions. Much has been good and necessary, but of course we have not all been behind it. The general priorities that we are making in the policy area are reminded even in these times. I note that the government too often has an instrumental view of civil society as a kind of extension of the state rather than rather as a sector that on its own creates values for people. This goes again, for example, a lot when we look at peoples' education, which is seen as a resource to fix unemployment, lack of integration and so on – problems that have been largely created by implementing bad policies. Madam President, I would like Not all government proposals to support civil society during the pandemic have been wise. We have an example of this from May last year, when the government announced that we had illegal migrants, who are themselves referred to as undocumented, as a pronounced target group for a multi-million-dollar civil society initiative. The Swedish Democrats believe that civil society organisations that create incentives for and facilitate illegal migrants' stay in Sweden should not be able to receive public funding. After all, if the state on the one hand has authorities working to get these people out of the country, on the other hand, organisations pay to make it easier for these people to stay in Sweden and make it more difficult for the authorities. Madam President, I would like Another thing that has been highlighted during this Parliamentary session, but which has long been a high priority for the Swedish Democrats, is the question of stopping public support for extremism of various kinds. For a long time, we spoke to Swedish democrats in this House deafly about the seriousness of tax money going to Islamists and other social-destructive forces. Recently, however, the debate on the study association Ibn Rushd, issues of democracy conditions and more has taken off. Several seem to have awakened from their deep sleep. The Swedish Democrats, of course, welcome the fact that more parties in this House are taking their backs on us in the description of problems and proposals for solutions in this area. In November, the government presented a new investigation that will develop sharper democracy conditions for state contributions to civil society. The Swedish Democrats welcome this signal that a tightening up is underway, but we are in no way convinced that this is enough. Many questions are still unanswered. What, for example, will happen to state contributions to Islamism and other extremism until the investigation is completed and later possibly leads to new regulations? It may take the 2022 elections for a new regulation to be in place, despite the emergency situation. This is not good enough. The Swedish Democrats want the government to act urgently to introduce a sharp temporary regulation until a longer-term one is in place. Nor has the government shown any willingness to take responsibility for the consequences of long-term distribution of grants to organisations that, according to new regulations, can be judged to run an operation contrary to Swedish democracy. The consequences of this need to be carefully investigated in the future, according to the Swedish Democrats. Säpo has stated that not only the state but also municipalities and regions distribute public funds to organisations linked to extremism environments. Säpo has also stated that it contributes to increased radicalisation and the growth of violent environments. This was found, among other things, in Säpo's referral to the Democracy Condition Investigation a couple of years ago. Then it is not enough, as the government does through the investigation, to work only for a support function to give municipalities advice on these issues. This issue goes beyond cultural policy and support for civil society; it is a matter of Sweden's security. Local self-government should of course be protected, but it is not reasonable for municipalities and regions to be able to finance radicalisation and violent extremism that undermines the whole of Swedish society. The line of the Swedish democrats here is clear: these social-destructive forces should not have a crown of taxpayers' money.
i-68e07b04a6408110-259	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation 6. I would also like to take this opportunity to draw our attention to our specific opinion on simplified forms of exercise. Madam President, I would like Having a functioning civil society and having the opportunity to engage in a living civil society is important both for individuals who can contribute to some purpose they are passionate about and for those who take part in the activities that are organised. Engagement in associations and civil society organisations contributes to community and association habits, which is very important also for our society as a whole. The Coronapendem has obviously influenced civil society and its organisations. There is therefore a need to monitor and review the impact of the pandemic and what measures are now needed to ensure a strong civil society in the future and beyond the coronapndemine. When we reopen society, we will need all the good forces, and there our civil society actors will be incredibly important. But, of course, these actors already play an important role today, during the pandemic. It is also important that every person is given the opportunity to contribute according to his or her ability. It strengthens the individual as well as civil society and society at large. But then the conditions for being able to participate in society must also be good and clear. Therefore, support for civil society needs to be allocated in order for more people to participate, and it needs to be distributed equally. Madam President, I would like Civil society is often quickly in place when there is a need for organised cooperation between people. It has become clear, not least, now during the Corona crisis, where there are several examples of this, such as efforts to help people at risk to act. In the Center Party, however, we see that civil society needs better conditions for its activities and its commitment to society. Among other things, it needs to be investigated how the right to deduct gifts to non-profit organisations could be broadened. This is something that, in these times of crisis, is all the more important for the opportunities for civil society to make it through the pandemic to become greater and for civil society to be strong in the future. When an idea-based organisation wants to cooperate with the public to make public contributions, difficulties often arise because there are no clear models, such as procurement models, to use in such cooperation. That is why we in the Center Party want to develop models for a partnership between ideas-based organisations and the public. There are other examples that I could list. All this together leads us in the Center Party to the fact that it is time for an association law investigation. It would be an investigation aimed at clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for its activities. Madam President, I would like The work of civil society and association life plays a very important role in the positive development of society at large. This applies not least in rural areas and in smaller towns where civil society through associations and communities takes a major responsibility for the development of the countryside. The meeting places that civil society organisations create are important in a much broader and deeper perspective than just the specific mission they have taken on. Meeting and organising and engaging together will benefit both the individual and, by extension, society as a whole. If more people get their eyes open and interest in getting involved in society, we can continue to develop our society in a positive direction and counteract segregation in order to build bridges instead. We in the Center Party know that politics can support civil society by involving it in more processes, be involved in funding its infrastructure and tax it as little as possible. Because, Madam President, those who volunteer and contribute to society with their commitment must also be well placed to do so.
i-68e07b04a6408110-270	Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 2 in the report. For ten years I worked with homeless people in an organization in Gothenburg. I got a deeper view of meeting every human being with respect, of the inviolable value of man, but also of the immense importance of civil society in our society. Civil society communities – aid organisations, associations, churches and other religious communities, sports clubs and social enterprises – play an enormous role in our society. Around Sweden, people make voluntary contributions that mean so much to our common welfare. 53 per cent of Swedes perform some kind of voluntary work, on average 15 hours a month. During the pandemic, volunteering has meant the difference in a hard or a warm society. For us Christian Democrats, civil society is one of the foundations of society. It contributes with commitment, trust, democracy, a meaningful leisure time for children and young people and, not least, an extended hand for society's most vulnerable. Civil society in Sweden has been severely affected economically during the pandemic. Activities have not been able to function normally, and the need to switch has been great. Yet it has continued to struggle with declining resources and major challenges. There is a great need for civil society intervention during and after the pandemic. We need a vibrant and warm civil society that contributes with community, care and a good upbringing for children and young people and continues to extend a hand to those who are vulnerable or in need. Already last spring, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party presented a joint proposal for a crisis package for civil society. Unfortunately, it was then rejected by the rest of the Committee on Finance. However, this year a united committee has supported the initiative to ask the government to return with better support for the broad civil society in Sweden. It is about support for the associations, the non-profit organisations, the relief activities, the churches, the other religious communities and the social foundations. They're the ones who carry the community. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are the political voice that has most clearly acted in favour of a strong civil society. We want to provide good conditions for civil society to work. We want to see through various government proposals so that they work for civil society. We want to ensure that support for increased costs of care due to covid-19 also reaches idea-based care providers. We want to raise the ceiling of the gift tax credit to SEK 100 000. As giving for relief activities among the needy now falls, the public can contribute with an injection that can increase giving. When the alliance government, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats, introduced the possibility of tax reduction for donations to non-profit activities with a social orientation or that promote research, the total giving to the country's 90 account organizations increased from SEK 5.2 billion up to SEK 5.8 billion, according to FRII, the voluntary organizations' fundraising council. During the same period, the average monthly gift increased from SEK 131 to SEK 170 per month. The figures showed a clear trend in which more people chose to give money for charitable purposes. During the last parliamentary term, the possibility of tax reduction for gifts was removed. However, thanks to the adoption of the Christian Democratic and Moderate Budget by the Riksdag in December 2018, the deduction was reinstated as of 1 July 2019. Compared to the gift tax deduction scheme that existed in 2012-2015, an improvement was made. The organisations applying to become gift recipients now no longer have to pay application or annual fees. It was previously an obstacle to applying to become an approved recipient of gifts, especially for many smaller organisations. Madam President, I would like We have a reservation in the report. The Christian Democrats have been involved in two cross-block agreements with the government on counter-terrorism measures, one in 2015 and one in 2017. Both times we have pushed through a requirement for democracy in order to be able to receive subsidies, so that no public contribution should be made to extremist organisations. We had to repeat that requirement in 2017 because nothing happened with the government. There is still no proposal or legislative referral, almost five years after the first promise of the democracy criterion for grant aid was made in the Terrorist Agreement. Parallel societies in Sweden are fattened by state and municipal subsidies that are exploited by both criminals and extremists, not infrequently in cooperation. It is time for the law to change, Madam President. Civil society holds so much positive. I would like to say something about the Christian Democrats' proposal for a leisure card for all children between grades 2 and 9. The card is loaded with 500 SEK for participation fees in leadership-led activities in the Swedish association life and cultural school. The purpose of the reform of the leisure card is for all children to have good opportunities to participate in sports or other associations. Nearly 1 million children will receive support for active and meaningful leisure time. In addition to the main objective of enabling all children to enjoy active leisure time, the reform will also strengthen the economy of society by providing more children and young people with incentives to participate in their activities. The fact that associations have an influx of more children who want to participate will therefore be a welcome boost to their economy. In the Christian Democrats' budget options, we set aside SEK 850 million per year to introduce the leisure card. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it may sound to some that civil society is just a leisure activity, a small sidetrack to what is happening in public or business. We believe that civil society is much bigger and much more important. This is where the foundation is laid for democracy, humanity and a functioning Sweden. The Christian Democrats' policy therefore strives to strengthen civil society and thus inter-human relations.
i-68e07b04a6408110-288	Madam President, I would like Can I hear you? Does the camera work? Is it an old hand or a new hand? Who has escaped these phrases in the past year when digital meetings had to replace physical ones? It is phrases that cause as much laughter as sighs but that have become synonymous with the new way of meeting. And it's lucky in the bad luck that we live in a time when there are digital tools and solutions that make encounters between people possible. This has, of course, meant a great deal to civil society organisations and associations that have done everything to be able to change and not allow the pandemic to prevent them from carrying out their activities. Suddenly, activities and activities have moved from physical premises to various digital rooms. Courses, annual meetings, film festivals, member meetings, seminars, or rather webinars, yes, even wine tastings are now organised digitally. People's ability to make decisions, talk, opinion-forming or simply pursue their interests would not be cancelled but rescheduled. But despite civil society's amazing ability to change, there have also been many challenges. Civil society, like other sectors, has been severely affected by the pandemic. The Coronandem has accelerated civil society's digitisation of its democratic processes. But it is mainly larger organizations that have managed that transition best. The conversion of external courses, seminars and events has been very resource-intensive and is not possible for everyone. In addition, the restrictions imposed have meant, among other things, that there are activities that are completely dormant. There are activities that are now feared to go bankrupt. The organisations have significant membership losses and difficulties in recruiting new members. There is concern about increased mental illness among groups previously caught up in the sector. Madam President, I would like Swedish civil society is unique. 244,000 organisations engage around 53 percent of the Swedish population. There is an enormous force here that must not be lost. The government has made a number of efforts to meet civil society's challenges during the coronapndemin. For example, SEK 75 million for public gatherings, an extra 50 million for children's and young people's organisations, an extra 50 million for the faith communities and SEK 100 million for civil society's efforts for people in socially particularly vulnerable situations and for elderly people's loneliness. But we need to continue to respond to the challenges of civil society and ensure that this sector is strong when the pandemic is over, because the challenges facing civil society are not only Corona-related. We know that, among other things, hatred and threats to civil society are increasing. Several studies carried out by LSU show that the statistics on hatred and threats to children's and young people's organisations are going the wrong way. As civil society forms the basis for democracy and freedom of expression, threats and hatreds of civil society organisations and people within civil society are an attack on democracy and a development that must be curbed. Another example of challenges is that today there is a great lack of meeting places around our country. This makes meeting between people and the possibility of exercising interests more difficult. The number of physical spaces where democracy takes place is decreasing. A political strategy is needed for this. Madam President, I would like A strong civil society also needs a contribution in which it can be clearly seen that tax funds are not used for activities that can be discriminatory or could be in conflict with democracy and human rights. Here, the investigation into a review of the state's support for religious communities and the ongoing Democracy Condition Investigation is incredibly important. Both investigations clarify what is meant by activities that run counter to democratic principles and make possible reviews, balances and assessments easier for all parties. Madam President, I would like In times of crisis, we are reminded of the importance of a strong civil society. Without these organisations and associations, the consequences of the pandemic would be even more devastating. Loneliness, which was already before the pandemic was the new public illness, the increased mental illness, children's and young people's ability to support and help in the event of vulnerability and support to people who have been economically affected by the pandemic, are some examples where civil society efforts have been of great importance. But a strong civil society must be built every day. In order for Swedish civil society to continue to be strong and develop, good and long-term conditions are of great importance. The strength and power of civil society benefit our society every day, and its strength has greater added value when faced with difficult trials. We therefore have a duty to protect all the bones that civil society stands on as a democracy school, as a voice carrier and as a place for people's commitment and interests. With these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-68e07b04a6408110-303	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we go to elections every four years. It is part of our democracy, but it is far from everything. Democracy is something you don't have but something you have to fight for, conquer and win every day. Democracy is the elections, it is the political parties – that you can exist as a political party – and it is freedom of expression, that you have the right to think and say what you want in our society. We have a strong democracy in Sweden. But democracy is also civil society – the tick in society that holds people together. Madam President, I would like I have worked internationally for about 20 years, including development cooperation in different countries. When we look at other countries, we can see what repressive regimes are beating down on. It is not just a question of excluding political parties from working in the country and of suppressing freedom of expression, but also of restricting the right to work within civil society. Not infrequently, civil society organisations dedicated to human rights and women's rights are being hit. It prohibits organisations that receive support and so on from abroad. It is often about those who work with such questions. Madam President, I would like In 2019, 39 per cent of Swedish development cooperation was directed to civil society in the countries where we operate. This is precisely because this is so important for the population of our developing cooperation countries. It is important for the development of democracy and for human rights. If you have a regime that you cannot cooperate with in development cooperation, you still try to work with civil society to build democracy and strengthen people in the country. This support is mainly based on our own civil society actors in Sweden. It is an extremely important exchange with which we contribute. Civil society in Sweden is extremely exuberant and important. It is important that it should be just exuberant and create new places for people to meet and opportunities for people to discuss different things and help each other. Nobody should go in here and say that we must not do things that are good for our democracy, for our freedom of expression and for our society as a whole. We have seen how important the City Mission, for example, is during the coronapandemy. I have had talks with the City Mission and been told that it is often they who are the outpost that those who have the very, the worst in our country turn to. They're the ones who might live out on the street, the way we don't want anyone to have it in our country. The City Mission is their entrance to the various functions that you need to get in touch with in order to receive grants, support and so on. It is the City Mission and other similar organisations that actually help them and that are there on site. This is where these vulnerable persons feel that they can get a helping hand, and there it is easy to turn around. Another such thing is the women's shelters, which also belong to civil society. They are doing a hugely important job for the many vulnerable women we have in our country. We need to strengthen these organisations and ensure that they receive long-term funding so that they can plan for the long term. We should not base the payments on grants to be applied for year-on-year. We must protect this part of our society. But there is also something that is self-evident and important to say, and here we absolutely must be 100% clear. We do not have to shake the cuffs on this: no funds should go to anti-democratic activities. Activities supported by civil society should provide the core values of society. It must not be anti-women and extremist, but it must share the fundamental values of society – those we have in our country. Mr Säpo has pointed out that there are shortcomings in this. There has been, and it is possible, funding for organisations carrying out activities that are not acceptable. Here it is important to say that we really take this seriously. The government is also doing so now that it is working on democracy legislation, which will come in a bill. Today, there are already democratic conditions that apply to the distribution of aid. It is important to follow up on this, as well as to establish the knowledge centre that Mr Säpo has said is important in order to be able to give advice and disseminate knowledge about which organisations are not okay and which violent extremists should, so to speak, beware of. It is extremely important that we hold on to these two things and are crystal clear that support should only go to democratic activities. Another thing is the youth organisations, mentioned earlier by my Socialist colleague. Many young people enter civil society organisations with full power and find a good place to work with their values and work together for different good purposes. But then they face threats and hate online. This is totally unacceptable. We need to put in a lot of effort and work hard against it. The young, who are our future, should not be broken by being subjected to threats and hatred, something to which we politicians, journalists, etc. are exposed. We really need to work incredibly purposefully to get away from this. The government has invested a lot in civil society during the pandemic. Civil society, like other actors, has, of course, been vulnerable and finds it difficult to operate and so on. It has had to be changed in many different ways. Many different subsidies have been paid out, and that is what we must continue to do in the future. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-68e07b04a6408110-317	Madam President, I would like I commend the Moderate reservation 19, Veterinarians and veterinary services. I'd like to start by reading a few headlines from the time between 7 and 10 December 2020: During the pandemic we have seen that more and more Swedes want to buy a puppy. It is clear how there is hardly a single dog for sale on the usual advertising sites. This has also been noticed at the borders. During September and October 2020 the Finnish Customs stopped 95 illegally introduced dogs with unknown identities, fake passports and false vaccination certificates. This can be compared with the previous year, when the figure was 39 dogs during the same period. This has come to be a trade involving an enormous amount of money. It is often also a case of other serious crime, such as drug trafficking. These animals are subjected to great suffering, and many times the puppies are in such poor condition that they may be killed on the spot by veterinarians. Customs officials are not allowed to decide for themselves what to do with puppies when they stop these criminal dog smugglers, but it is the Swedish Agriculture Agency, with the help of district veterans, who will inspect the puppies and decide what to do. With the current veterinary shortage, customs officials are increasingly forced to release smugglers because no district veterans have time to come. Then why do I mention this, Madam President? Well, of course, because there must be several efforts to stop the dog smuggling. However, I mention this in this connection also because these small puppies suffer unnecessarily and may even die unnecessarily because of the veterinary shortage that exists. Madam President, I would like In the spring of 2019, I listened to a seminar in the Riksdag on the impact of the shortage of veterinarians and veterinary nurses on the country's animal hospital. Even then, I chose to get involved in the matter. I have visited animal hospitals and veterinarians in several places around the country and learned that several activities were forced to reduce their opening hours and during the summer time completely shut down because there are no veterinarians. I have also had long discussions with veterinarians who told me about the consequences when there is no available animal health care provider. Animals will risk unnecessary suffering if they become ill. In the worst case, they will have to be put down if they do not receive treatment at the right time. It will also have the consequence that farms and slaughterhouses will be unsupervised and unchecked, and we do not want that either. Madam President, I would like We are well aware that there is a very small proportion of farmers and slaughterhouses who mishandle their animals, but the hideous reports that we have seen a few months ago on television cast a shadow over the whole industry. Therefore, it is especially important to get to those who misbehave, so that the overwhelming majority that obeys laws and rules and takes good care of their animals are not discredited. The scenes that have been rolled out through different channels leave no one unmoved and show completely unacceptable handling. To see animals slaughtered while still conscious and kicked and hit in the head with chains is so disgusting that there are no words. Breeders who deliberately ignore the suffering of animals and at times leave them without both feed and water are nothing but animal tormentors. This is criminal and must end. We need a zero vision to stop animal suffering in general. Several measures are therefore needed to prevent unnecessary suffering for animals. The Moderates have put forward several proposals in the Riksdag for measures that can lead us forward along this path. There are many elements that we need to take seriously to protect our animals from unnecessary suffering. But we would also like to point out that, of course, we still want to see a viable farm producing meat and cereals. However, we hope not to see any more reports of animal cruelty. In order to prevent animal suffering in different ways, we would like to see a new criminal classification for serious animal cruelty introduced as soon as possible. Anyone convicted of cruelty to animals today usually receives only daily fines or conditional sentences. However, in the case of systematic and gross violations, the penalty must be increased. Serious cruelty to animals should always lead to prison. It sends a clear signal that society is serious about animal cruelty. We also want more unannounced checks at slaughterhouses. Checks at slaughterhouses are notified or unannounced. In order to make controls more effective, the number of unannounced checks needs to be increased. The Moderates also want to provide money to the Swedish Food Administration to train survey veterans so that the assessment is more uniform and fair throughout the country. We also want to introduce camera surveillance in certain slaughterhouses. 95% of animal slaughters in Sweden are carried out at slaughterhouses that have permanent staffing of the Swedish Food Safety Agency's veterinarians, and there are already slaughterhouses that have also voluntarily introduced camera surveillance. However, smaller slaughterhouses are exempted from the requirement. In these cases, Madam President, it is important to require camera surveillance in order to reduce the risk of abuse and cruelty to animals. Of course, camera surveillance should be carefully investigated with regard to the integrity of the employees. In addition, we want Sweden to develop a strategy for non-animal research, Madam President, so that the experiments currently being carried out on live animals – in either scientific or educational contexts – are replaced by animal-free methods as far as possible and appropriate, and to increase research into animal-free experimental methods. Finally, Madam President, we want to stop the veterinary shortage that we see prevailing. Here is a red thread for everything that I have now mentioned. We need well-trained staff. It is a prerequisite for good animal care, as I have given several examples here today. The shortage of veterinarians, animal carers and animal carers is great. We must act quickly here. In the Moderates' budget, we therefore invest in more places in veterinary and animal nursing education. We also want to resume the fast track for animal nurses. This is a priority, preferably yesterday. Madam President, I would like We'll be on the side of defenseless animals. There are many things that we Moderates want to do here. This was just an ax pick. We must protect our animals in Sweden.
i-68e07b04a6408110-334	Madam President, I would like Today we are here to debate animal welfare. It is a subject that may have been somewhat obscured by the current pandemic, where the focus has quite understandably landed on health care, entrepreneurship and the economy. However, in view of this pandemic and possible future epidemics, animal welfare is a highly relevant issue. Although Sweden is a country whose animal welfare laws are among the strictest in a global perspective, we are far from perfect. Nevertheless, it is important to look at other countries and the potential for positive improvement there. The World Health Organization, WHO, has visited Wuhan in China and made field visits to the animal market where wild animals were sold for human consumption. They say that their studies clearly show that the new coronavirus comes from animals and has been transferred to man. It is therefore difficult to wave away China's role when it comes to the transmission of coronas, but in view of the animal husbandry situation elsewhere in the world, this pandemic or any other epidemic could have just as well started elsewhere. We know from the past that unhealthy animal husbandry is closely linked to ill health and dangerous, even deadly, diseases. That is why work in the field of animal welfare is so important. We want the Swedish Government to work for international regulation when it comes to wildlife trade and also for independent international inspectors to be allowed to carry out controls in the countries where animal markets cause contamination. In this connection, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 2 by the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like Today, I would also like to take this opportunity to mention some aspects relating to slaughter. We see several problems linked to this subject. The first concerns ritual slaughter, halal and kosher. In Sweden it is not allowed to bleed animals without stunning, which is good. However, we still allow imports of animal species into Sweden from animals slaughtered without stunning in other countries. It does not even need to be imported from very far from here, as very many countries in the EU still allow this painful slaughter where animals get the carotid artery cut up and bleeding when they are still conscious. Since there seems to be a market for these products and thus also economic incentives, many meat producers have switched to these slaughter methods in other countries. It's an animal cruelty that we don't want to support. Sweden needs to be given the opportunity to stop imports of this type of food and other animal species that deviate from Swedish animal welfare legislation, while also working to ensure that Swedish animal welfare law is the minimum requirement in the EU. That said, there is also more to be done within Sweden when it comes to animal welfare linked to slaughter. We can take the example of the carbon dioxide anaesthetic of pigs for slaughter, a method that is common to pigs. During the stunning process, they feel tingling and burning in their throats and begin to poke for air. This stunning process may take several minutes during which animals need to suffer. Since the most widely used stunning methods for pigs are neither stress-free nor pain-free, more research is needed on alternative stunning methods to protect animals against suffering as far as possible during this process. There is also more we can do. To bring up something that has been very topical in the near future, few have probably escaped the pictures from a slaughterhouse in Skåne where you could see how the animals were tormented by bleeding too late after being stunned. This means that when the stunning has begun to release, the animals have begun to regain sensation and consciousness during the bleeding process itself. In this abattoir, the plagues were not just about their bleeding too late; they also performed sadistic acts such as beating the animals with chains and kicking them in the head. We know that this is not the general picture of how it is done in Swedish slaughterhouses. The large slaughterhouses have inspectors throughout the slaughter process, and in smaller slaughterhouses the animals are checked both before and after slaughter. However, this shows that more needs to be done. Not least, severe punishments must be passed on to those who torment animals. That is why we want to see gross animal cruelty introduced on the scale of penalties, where the minimum penalty leads to imprisonment. Because that's enough! We have had enough violence, both against humans and against animals. We must make it clear that it is not okay to torment animals, whether they are animals in a workplace, small innocent hedgehogs and hares out in the open or someone else's animal. There have been cases of outdoor cats being mutilated and burned and horses being shot or tormented in other sadistic ways. Those who do that should not get away with a small fine. Those who commit particularly ruthless acts against animals shall be sentenced to prison.
i-68e07b04a6408110-345	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 4, so it was done. There are an enormous number of aspects to be addressed in relation to animal welfare. That is why, as for all of us, only a few impacts can be made on the huge issue that this really is. I was going to focus on issues related to food-producing animals. Swedish food producers are world leaders in animal health, have a restrictive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry and produce food in a climate-smart and environmentally friendly way. However, we see that Swedish farmers cannot always charge for the added value that grazing animals give rise to in the form of open landscapes and enhanced biodiversity. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers, the regulatory burden in the field of animal welfare should be reduced. There are several aspects of the Animal Welfare Act that need to be reviewed and improved. It happens, Madam President, that animal owners are wrongly treated in the context of controls, and sometimes animal welfare inspectors are subjected to threats and violence during visits. None of this is acceptable. Therefore, the Center Party wants to review the application of the Animal Welfare Act while maintaining legal certainty in animal welfare controls. Many animal producers in Sweden state that they feel a great worry in contact with the county administration's animal welfare inspectors. In addition to the fact that individual officials have a significant impact on individual businesses, there are significant variations in the application of the Animal Welfare Act and the assessment of controls. In order to follow this up, the Center Party wants the Swedish Agriculture Agency to be authorised to carry out audits of the county administrative boards' work on animal welfare controls. With a more goal-driven regulatory framework, it becomes even more important with controllers who have knowledge and experience of the animals of agriculture so that they can make just wise balances. Both owners and controllers should be able to feel mutual respect and security. The government should therefore look at the pros and cons of collecting animal welfare controls in its own organisation in order to ensure legal and equivalent controls across the country. If there is to be an objective assessment of a ban on animals and a ban on trade, it is best for the district court to take a decision on this. And by moving the decisions from the supervisory authority, the assessment becomes more impartial. Madam President, I would like Sweden has supervision and strict requirements for animal transport. We think that is important. We're proud of it, too. However, several cases of unworthy movement of live animals within the EU have been revealed. I would like to say that there are too many. Although there are rules on animal welfare in the EU, these are not followed by the Member States. The monitoring of compliance by Member States with the EU acquis on animal welfare should be improved, as any tightening of the acquis will be toothless if compliance is not ensured. However, although Swedish animal welfare is much better than animal welfare in the rest of the EU, there are improvements that can be made. There are successful examples that various industries have developed animal welfare programs, which have then highlighted the whole industry. The Center Party wants to see more animal welfare programmes where inter-branch organisations, slaughterhouses, retail chains and producers work together. For the competitiveness of green industries to be improved, reasonable rules of play are needed in Europe. Therefore, the objective should be a common general animal welfare legislation at EU level that ensures that EU-wide animal protection is raised to at least Swedish level. This allows all consumers to rely on the food they consume. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to limit animal testing by developing a national strategy for animal-free experiments. Squeeze and cleaning products shall be tested in ways other than animal testing. On the part of the Center Party, we want a joint EU decision which completely prohibits the testing of cleaning products on animals. Madam President, I would like Let me make a few other points in my speech. Colleagues have previously mentioned the need for stronger skills provision. It can be done in many different ways. This can be done by changing regulations. This can be done by increasing the number of training places. You can in different ways make this job more popular. But there are also border problems. My colleague Linda Modig, who comes from Norrbotten, has pointed that out. Now in pandemic times, we are all extremely aware of the border issue of cross-border mobility between the Nordic countries. But there are also rules, not least in the veterinary field, which make it difficult in sparsely populated areas, which are also border areas, to use the skills that exist wisely and effectively. That's why we're lifting from the Center Party that you need to look at it. How can increased cross-border mobility and the use of veterinary capacity on the Finnish, Norwegian or Danish sides be facilitated? Madam President, I would like We in the committee have raised the issue of animal welfare, and we have had a number of visits from various authorities and organisations. They have raised some of the problems we have seen in the media. But these are also more fundamental factors. How can we both prevent and remedy the problems we see? Generally, it is about control and regulation being good, but there are also a lot of other things that can be done. I pointed out in the introduction that we are proud of the Swedish food producers, who are world leaders in animal health. However, it is also necessary to strengthen profitability and competitiveness in different ways, so that they can make the investments needed to achieve more easy-to-work stables. It is about making animal welfare easier for individual traders in different ways. These are things that we need to keep looking at in different ways.
i-68e07b04a6408110-359	Madam President, I would like Questions about animal rights have always been very important to me. It is something special to work for those who lack their own voice and have often been exploited by man without demanding anything special back. This is also a high priority for the Left Party. That is why we launched one of our most extensive exercises on the subject last autumn. That is part of what I intend to touch on now. I apologize in advance for taking some time. The pandemic is with us in everything we do, so also in the work of the committee and also in the debate on animal welfare. Last autumn covid spread among the Danish mink farms. It eventually resulted in a decision to put down all minks but also in a historic decision to shut down. In Sweden, which has a considerably smaller herd than Denmark had, the infection was also seen to spread between mink farms. At first it was uncertain whether it would be a stop even in Sweden, but in the end they landed in a middle way. The crew would be kept, but there would be no new breeding in 2021. It's, to some extent, a win. But the disadvantage of this procedure is that Sweden will now pay compensation to maintain an activity that few really want to see continue. Instead, we could pay a compensation for ending once and for all the mink farming and the life of minks in cages. Instead, the government's line is to starve the mink farms. They put their faith in the market to solve the problem. It is something that could have been expected of a bourgeois government, but I expected more of it. Denmark is about to phase out its mink industry. That's what it looks like right now. It was still the largest in Europe. But this is not just happening in Denmark. More and more countries are making decisions to stop domestic fur farming. Previously, it was Norway. It has also been the Netherlands and a further 15 other countries across Europe. However, Poland is also in the process of discussing a phasing-out decision. Should Sweden be the only country in Europe to remain with this type of animal husbandry? Other animals that we keep in cages like this are chickens. The new Animal Welfare Act strengthens the right of animals to move freely and perform behaviours that are important for their welfare. But there are hens in cages – in cages. Only there should we understand that this cannot be maintained, whether it is decorated cages or not. There's an animal in a cage. There's nothing natural about it. Sweden should set an end date for when the cages should be away from the Swedish egg industry. It would provide clear guidelines for those who continue to carry out this type of activity and allow them to switch. An absolute majority of the Swedish people want to see this development, so let us do this. Taking into account the fact that many farms have already switched to a free-range system, the phasing-out should be possible in the coming years. The issue of grazing rights has been on the agenda recently. Sweden has a unique requirement for dairy cows to be kept on pasture during summer. This is also a factor that is important for Swedish consumers when they choose in the dairy counter, which is perhaps a stronger argument for some than argument about animal welfare. The debate has gone so that loose operation indoors can be replacement enough. Research shows, however, that grazing for dairy cows has positive effects on the health of cows, and it is also a strong natural behavior to graze. The Left Party shares the view that the situation of our dairy farmers is difficult and requires action. We have therefore also proposed increased support for, among other things, pastures. However, we believe that weakened animal welfare can never be the sustainable strategy for Sweden, Swedish agriculture and our food production. Another unsustainable aspect of livestock farming for consumption is the transport of animals. In Sweden, these transports may not exceed eight hours. Then there are a number of exceptions that allow the transport to be as long as 12 hours. Reducing transport time is one of the most important factors in reducing the number of animals that die during transport, according to Efsa, the EU Food Safety Authority. Sweden needs to be a strong voice in the EU in order to reduce transport so that it does not exceed four hours within the EU and also develop a national strategy to reduce the amount of animal transport. These animal transports often have a goal, and that is the slaughterhouse. The methods used in slaughterhouses have been the subject of debate over the years, most recently the stunning method of carbon dioxide. The fact that carbon sequestration causes severe discomfort for pigs, for example, has been known by scientists for 20 years. It doesn't really have to go on. A first step to get away from this painful stunning method is to set an end year and a date for when the carbon dioxide anaesthetic should be away from the Swedish slaughterhouses. Only then will the industry really have reason to look for alternative methods. A second step is to urgently add resources to develop alternative stunning methods. There are already interesting projects at SLU, where you look at nitrogen gas foam as an alternative. However, as long as the CO2 anaesthetic is permitted and there is no end date, there is no incentive to move away from the still relatively cheap CO2 stunning method. In aquaculture, too, livestock farming is booming, using carbon dioxide anaesthetics with similar and, in many cases, even worse results. A collective research team has condemned the method as painful, drawn-out and non-functioning. In an opinion, SLU writes that it is not an ethically acceptable method for stunning or killing fish. Studies show that a high percentage of fish are fully conscious of bleeding. This is completely contrary to the Animal Welfare Act, which states that all animals should be unconscious at slaughter. In our neighbouring country, Norway, precisely because of the shortcomings of the method, such a ban has already been introduced. Given the big investments that are being made around the country – I am thinking of Sotenäs and Säffle, to name but a few – it is also high time to develop alternatives. The Left Party therefore wants to see that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is given the task of producing regulations for the slaughter of farmed fish where carbon dioxide anaesthetics are prohibited. However, the ban may be a few years ahead in order to develop full compensation methods. Man's best friend we talked about at a seminar here in Parliament yesterday. Then it was about dog smuggling. As mentioned here before, it is something that has increased a lot during the pandemic, this because more of us want a dog as more of us are home more. And since man is impatient by nature, or since man may have learned that everything should be available just in time, dog breeders in Sweden have not been able to meet the interest that now exists. The vacuum that has arisen has been filled by dog smugglers throughout Europe happily. Until Sunday, customs in southern Sweden had found 108 dogs at the border. In 2015, the trade in dogs and also cats in 12 EU Member States was estimated to cover 61 million dogs and 67 million cats worth approximately EUR 1.3 billion. There has been large-scale breeding in puppy factories, an activity under government radar. The Customs Agency itself has mentioned a number of measures that would be needed, such as increased coordination between the Customs Agency and other relevant authorities, but also sharper penalties for smuggling. At yesterday's seminar we were told how a puppy holds the same penalty value as a smuggled liter of vodka. I don't know what it says most about: what value we put on a dog or how we value alcohol. This doesn't make sense. The Left Party believes that there is a need for a clear action plan to address the problem that connects the different parts of society and, for example, remove unnecessary problems such as the fact that authorities cannot share information with each other because of confidentiality. Since it is not only a national problem, cooperation within the EU is also needed with common requirements for identification marking and a register linking the countries. I'll stay with the dogs for a while. Dogs reared in puppy factories have more frequent injuries and diseases than other dogs. There is a poor growing-up environment, along with poor supervision, some of the main reasons. However, problems with diseases and progenitor defects exist for almost all races. Dog breeding is something that has been going on for many centuries. Man has tried to breed certain qualities in order to produce a dog with special abilities for a particular task. It is well and good, but the problem is that many races have physical problems that cause suffering when we focus on appearance over ability. There are several progeny defects in different dogs. These may be narrow respiratory tracts of pugs and other blunt - nosed breeds. It can be about back problems in a German Shepherd or joint problems in the small breeds that are bred to fit in a bag rather than running freely. The ideals that exist today for what a particular race should look like are, in many cases, far from what the race looked like just a few decades ago. Today, there are no obstacles to breeding on a dog with genetic diseases or this type of progeny. That is why, as part of the Animal Welfare Act, we also need regulations regulating dog breeding. Veterinarians who often perform surgery to correct the very defects we have bred have raised the voice because dogs undergoing this type of surgery, for example for their respiratory pathways, should not be used in breeding and that the operations should be registered with SKK, the Swedish Kennel Club, for example. It can also be about producing some kind of health certificate. This weekend I read an article saying that 70 organisations across Europe and well over 900 000 people have come together to demand that wild animals should not be found in circuses. In Sweden we have for a long time a ban that means that several species may not be present in the circus, and the problem in Sweden is not as big as it once was. The Left Party has, however, for a long time been pushing for Sweden to introduce a positive list of animals that can actually be found in the circus. This will make it easier for legislators or authorities to ensure animal welfare and be one step ahead when new species are added that may be relevant to exhibit the circus. This is an issue which is also beneficially pursued jointly in the European Union. Should an EU-wide positive list be obtained, it would have a major impact on animals. Finally, while we are talking about cooperation, Sweden has strong animal welfare legislation, for all its part in need of improvement. But the work that Sweden has done still needs to reach out. The Left Party wants the government, in cooperation with the Riksdag and the relevant organisations, to develop a clear strategy for a UN declaration for animal welfare. In the context of the increase in the number of large-scale animal industries and the increase in wildlife trade, leading to an increased risk of new pandemics, common regulations on animal welfare are an important key for the future. With this, Madam President, I support the Left Party's reservation 14.
i-N62Umq8bb6FUzWUiW2og8s	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation number 8. In recent times we have received many reports that the smuggling of dogs has completely exploded. We heard Mr Elin talking about this. Customs in southern Sweden says that they capture a fraction of all dogs that have been smuggled into the country's borders. There are many of us who have seen the terrible pictures of puppies found in cars hidden under the seats. The puppies have been treated very badly and are usually in bad condition – pure animal cruelty. These are organised crime involving gangs from, for example, Poland, Serbia, Hungary and Bulgaria. Today, when Customs takes a dog smuggler who may have one or two dogs with him, Customs tells the smuggler to take the dog back to the country the smuggler came from. How many people in this House think this is going to happen? No one. The smuggler thanks and goes back to Denmark, not to the country he came from. So the smuggler is again trying to get into Sweden at another border crossing. Few smugglers are prosecuted for the crime they commit. So this is almost risk-free crime. That can't be allowed to continue. It is a question of animal cruelty, but it is also a matter of great risk that there will be diseases in Sweden, such as the dreaded disease rabies. Madam President, I would like Is nothing done by our authorities? Yes! In order to strengthen the joint cooperation of public authorities in this area, the Swedish Agriculture Agency launched a collaboration forum in 2020 where SVA, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the county administrative boards and the regional infectious diseases doctors are included. That's great. However, I can react to the fact that the police are not in this important forum. What else can be done? One example that I myself think is good to highlight is a law that was adopted last year in England: Lucy's Law. In short, the law means that dogs and cats less than six months old may not be sold by anyone other than the breeder. This law will probably curb the sale of puppies from other than the breeder. This is a typical example of what I think the government can do right away instead of taking the attitude of waiting and seeing. Madam President, I would like We can really be grateful for our Swedish farmers. There is no doubt at all that it is thanks to their good and important work that Sweden is at the very top of the list today when it comes to using the least antibiotics throughout the EU. It's fantastic and positive. We know that over-use of antibiotics is a very serious concern worldwide. As many people know, antibiotics are used in animal feed, for example, if animals become ill. It will continue to be important for the government, and for that matter our fellow Members in the European Parliament, to push forward on this issue. One of the first measures that should be taken is to introduce at EU level a rule that veterinarians must not make money prescribing antibiotics. That is actually the case today, my friends. Veterinarians in some EU countries receive part of their salary through commissions on the sale of antibiotics. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the government must continue to act strongly in favour of the right to impose requirements on the sampling of live animals in order to stop infection from entering the country. Furthermore, we believe that the method of rifles should be approved for slaughter on farms. Several studies have shown that the method reduces animal stress. For some keepers, it may be important that their animals can end their lives in a safe environment by being killed at home on the farm instead of at a slaughterhouse. Germany is here a good example and allows the method since 2011.
i-68e07b04a6408110-394	Madam President, I would like For time-winning, I only support Liberals' motivational reservation number 15, but of course we support all our proposals. Madam President, I would like Animal welfare and animal welfare have historically involved many liberals here in Parliament and in the European Parliament. Good animal husbandry is also a prerequisite for good public health, and Sweden must have good and good animal welfare. In Sweden there is a low use of antibiotics, we take great care of the environment and we maintain good disease protection. Our good husbandry is a competitive advantage that we need to safeguard. The use of antibiotics among both humans and animals must be reduced. The development of antibiotic resistance is also a threat to human health. Good husbandry requires less antibiotics. Healthy animals don't need antibiotics. Today, Sweden is the best in Europe to keep down the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. This is mainly because our regulations ensure that fewer animals become stressed and ill. Improving animal welfare in the rest of Europe would be good for animals, consumers and public health. The transport of animals within the EU and to and from outside the Union needs to be restricted as much as possible. It's better to transport meat than live animals. Sweden should work to ensure that trade rules between the EU and third countries include rules for improving animal welfare. Sweden should take the initiative to ensure that animal transport from EU Member States to third countries complies with EU rules. Sweden should therefore work to ensure that the EU works to improve the control of live animal transport both within the EU and in the case of onward transport to third countries. Madam President, I would like Virus diseases that currently do not exist in Sweden, such as porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, PRRS, are spread in many countries. It is important to prevent and prevent the spread of animal diseases in Sweden. These are measures to prevent outbreaks, such as ensuring that imported animals or breeding products are healthy and are not infected with, for example, PRRS viruses. It was an outbreak in Sweden in 2007 that was fought very successfully, and it is therefore important that we continue with good work in this area. The import of live animals is currently subject to negative sampling for PRRS before the animal is allowed into the country. However, when the new EU animal health regulation comes into force in the near future, the possibility of requiring sampling will disappear. Countries with large pig exports believe that sampling for PRRS must not hinder intra-EU trade in pigs, and this means that Sweden will be prevented from requiring sampling upon introduction. However, the new EU Animal Health Act allows each country to work to control diseases within the country. Through Sweden's work on a national control programme to prevent outbreaks of the virus, Sweden should take measures to continue to prevent outbreaks. Sweden should also initiate renewed negotiations linked to viral diseases which have a negative impact on animal health and which in turn lead to increased antibiotic use. The possibility for EU countries to export meat to certain non-EU countries is based on good animal health. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a motive reservation about mink and mink keeping. Basic provisions on the keeping and care of animals, including those kept for the production of fur and skins, are contained in the Animal Welfare Act and the Animal Welfare Regulation. The Animal Welfare Act states, among other things, that animals must be treated well and protected against unnecessary suffering and disease. It is also clear that animals should be kept and cared for in a good animal environment and in such a way as to promote their welfare, to carry out their natural behaviour and to prevent behavioural disturbances. The fundamental point is therefore not whether animal husbandry is carried out for the sake of the fur or for any other purpose, but the conditions under which the animals live. All animal husbandry must ensure that animals have a dignified life. It is not a question of being against animal husbandry; it is a question of animal welfare. Man has kept animals at all times, for food, or for wool. This brings with it a responsibility for animal welfare. The animals should be free of stress, and they should be allowed to exercise their natural behaviour. To take a stand for this means that some animal husbandry needs to be reconsidered – for the sake of the animals.
i-68e07b04a6408110-404	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Animal welfare, which we are debating here today, is a subject that concerns us. There are many of us who feel a great deal of commitment to these issues – this can be seen in the debate but also in the number of motions. Animals make us feel good. Most of us who have or have had animals can attest to that, and this is confirmed by the research. As former Chairman of the Social Welfare Board, I have also had the privilege of following and seeing how the little nursing Roffe Roffe and other animals can contribute to both the magical joy and, above all, the well-being of the people who need it most. In these coronatides, when loneliness is great, we need our pets more than ever. But with an animal comes a great responsibility as an animal owner. When buying an animal, it is important to keep in mind that you should be able to take care of the animal throughout its life span. After months of fewer social contacts, many are now buying pets. The demand for dogs in particular has increased, which has also led to rogue dog breeders and smugglers seeing opportunities to make money. We can never accept that animals are being mistreated and suffering. To overcome this problem requires a broad range of measures from different actors and, above all, that I, as a buyer, take my responsibility, seek the information needed and control the breeder. Madam President, I would like In recent months, several media elements have highlighted deficiencies in animal welfare in farms and major deficiencies in slaughterhouses. We in Sweden have the best animal welfare law in the world, but the law must be respected. The controls must be effective and the penalties must be effective if the law is not complied with. Otherwise it affects the animals but also all serious keepers. The strong animal welfare that we have in Sweden makes the animals healthier. Instead of, as in some other countries, being propped up full of antibiotics, the animals in Swedish agriculture are kept healthy through good animal husbandry and preventive measures. Antibiotics are an amazing medicine, which it is important to use wisely. However, in many countries too much antibiotics are used for animals. This means that more and more bacteria can resist antibiotics and that in the future we risk becoming ill or dying from common infections. Like climate and pollution, antibiotic resistance knows no borders. Sweden gives high priority to the issue, and in the January agreement we have agreed that Sweden will work internationally to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry globally. But we won't settle there. The Government decided in 2020 on an updated Swedish strategy for the work against antibiotic resistance, and in the research bill we propose an important reinforcement to the research programme for this. A holistic approach is needed in this work. In December, the Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for Social Affairs also presented a joint mission to the authorities for more cooperation in the work against antibiotic resistance. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is not only antibiotic resistance and corona that is spreading. We have several other serious infections among our animals, including highly contagious avian flu and quark among horses. Last week there was a major outbreak of the EHV-1, also known as the abortion virus, among horses on the international jumping tour in Spain. As of 21 April this year, new requirements for the registration of horses in the EU, i.e. to reduce the incidence of devastating animal diseases and minimise the effects of outbreaks of these diseases, will be introduced. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is currently working on developing the Swedish regulations that will complement the new Animal Health Act, AHL. I would also like to highlight the importance of animal health care when and where it is needed. We have been in a situation where private operators have no longer been able to meet the needs of certain areas. Therefore, the government's efforts to ensure that the supply of veterinarians continues to be good continue last year. The effort on the scientists not only means strengthening the conditions for providing animals with the care they need, which is very important, but also better conditions for people to live and work throughout our country. Madam President, I would like In October, the news reached us that the corona infection had spread on some of the country's mink farms. The government took this very seriously. Even before the infection was discovered here in Sweden, the government had started a close dialogue with the relevant authorities, which in turn had a close dialogue with the mink industry. The country's mink farms were shut down, and the authorities also decided to ban this year's breeding. Following the outbreak of covid infection in Swedish mink herds, the Government commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Veterinary Institute to investigate the risk of new zoonotic infections and the need for further action. Preventive work can reduce the risk of outbreaks of new zoonoses, and it is important that we now learn from the experience gained during the pandemic. It is important that we constantly evaluate animal husbandry and that research and proven experience form the basis for political decisions. We Social Democrats also want the need for animal testing to be phased out so that we can replace animal testing with non-animal methods. Then we need research and cooperation. Sweden is a pioneer country when it comes to alternative methods to animal testing, and we shall continue to be. Therefore, there is a completely new chapter on this in the research policy bill, and the government continues to invest in Sweden's 3R centre at the Swedish Board of Agriculture. Madam President, I would like Protecting animal welfare is a priority for the government. In addition to the research bill that I have mentioned, we have a proposal on offences against animals and one on the labelling and registration of cats. They come this year, and the investigation into new animal health legislation has just been on the table. So a great deal is happening in the area of animal welfare right now. Animal welfare is mainly about prevention, and treating animals well is an ethical responsibility that we have. We Social Democrats continue to act strongly in the EU to make higher demands on animal welfare and antibiotic use, and we are pushing for Sweden to continue to be the world leader in animal welfare.
i-68e07b04a6408110-423	Madam President, I would like Over a year ago, I stood in this House asking how the government is acting on the veterinary shortage. Your Minister Jennie Nilsson replied that the causes of the emerging shortage of veterinarians are numerous and that the results of activities that were going on to investigate the causes were to be found. We know what caused the veterinary shortage: There are not enough places at SLU. We also know that we need to look at the lack carefully and look at the competitiveness of veterinarians. Today it is an education of five and a half years. When you get out of education, the salary is about 30 000; in Denmark it is double. Animal welfare is said to be a priority for the government. I wonder, however, when the issue of veterinarians is not given sufficient priority. It is ultimately animal health care in Sweden that ensures that our animals are well. The measures listed by the government have already been taken and have proved inadequate. We've seen animal hospitals closing in the summer. You don't have enough on-call time. What happens when you stand there with a dog who's sick? I don't even want to think about coming to the animal hospital and not getting help.
i-68e07b04a6408110-428	Madam President, I would like It is a very important question that there are veterinarians, as I said in the speech, when and where you need them. We have had problems in the past with the private market not having fixed this. In sparsely populated areas of the country there has been a great shortage of veterinarians, and they have had to go hugely far. Here the government went in with an investment in the district veterinarians to make sure that there are veterinarians throughout our country. We need more vets, especially in some places. Agrifood – I think it was last year – produced a report investigating the shortage of veterinarians. It showed that there was no general deficiency but that there was a shortage in some counties. This is, I think, a matter that the government has prioritised. The government already invested in this last year. SLU received funding to create more training places. These funds are in place, and there are all the opportunities for more training places there. As Marléne Kopparklint said in her speech, this would have been a priority yesterday. That is exactly what happened; it was already given priority in last year.
i-68e07b04a6408110-432	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, yes– already 2019 we received information about the deficiency at a seminar here in the Riksdag. So the stakes come a little late when it looks like it does. I think that these efforts and the measures taken in relation to the sites are not enough. The MP Malin Larsson also says that the private market has not fixed this. I wonder how the Member of Parliament thinks, when it is SLU that has the seats and you cannot access the education. The search pressure is huge for these places. Last time I got information, there were 15 applicants per location. So I do not think the government is doing enough. If you really want to do something about this, you cannot sit passively and wait for an investigation while our pets risk unnecessary suffering and, in the worst case, risk dying because there is not enough animal health care in Sweden. It is not only veterinarians that are needed, but also animal nurses and carers. The lack is due to the fact that SLU does not train enough people today to meet Swedish needs and has not done so historically. My question is: How do you think when you have seen the large number of dogs that people buy today? This will also increase pressure on the veterinarians, especially in the case of the poor contraband dogs that come to Sweden and have diseases and various infections. This requires that the animal health services should be able to deal with this problem, before setting up efforts to stop the problem of dog smuggling, which is deplorable.
i-WaR8aU9QJRbHAvqWN5CdQt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marléne Lund Kopparklint, for the questions. In fact, the government is incredibly active on animal welfare issues. We present the proposal after the proposal in this area and initiate an investigation after an investigation. So much that is done under this government and that was done under the previous Social Democratic-led government in the field of animal welfare has probably never been done before. Animal health care must be available when and where it is needed, as I have been inside. The private actors were no longer able to meet this need, and so the government stepped in and invested in the district veterinarians in order to provide the conditions for veterinary care throughout our country. This is a very important bet. The fact that we are now investing in SLU and giving them increased funding to create more training places is also very important. In order to strengthen the country and to enable more people to be educated and participate in the transition now after Corona, the government also adds money to the universities and colleges around the country. I would also like to point out that we social democrats in government have succeeded in what the bourgeois government failed to do. We have introduced a modern animal welfare law, which places increased demands on owners and establishes that animals should be allowed to behave naturally. These are very important issues, and here the government has really done an important and great job.
i-68e07b04a6408110-440	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the committee's proposal in the report on animal welfare to be approved. The Animal Welfare Act is a framework law that governs the direction of animal welfare and welfare. Sweden has, in international comparison, a good level of animal protection. In the latest evaluation of animal welfare in different countries, carried out in 2020, Sweden was among the best performing countries. But Sweden was not at its peak, because there are shortcomings, such as the caged of minks and laying hens and the use of carbon dioxide for the stunning of pigs and fish. Furthermore, in the case of food-producing animals, animal husbandry is sometimes a compromise between economic interests, the wishes of the industry and the needs of the animals, where the needs of the animals can sometimes stand back. Today's law on animal welfare is clear as regards respect for the natural behaviour of animals, and animal welfare should be promoted. It is also clear that there is zero tolerance to behavioural disturbances and that the Animal Welfare Act should be applied at individual and not group level. The preparatory work for the Swedish Animal Welfare Act also states that animals have their own value, no matter what benefit we humans have of them. Perhaps the most important sentence of the Animal Welfare Act is: a law aimed at ensuring good animal welfare and promoting good animal welfare and respect for animals. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We have a really good animal welfare team in Sweden. However, there are exceptions, exemptions and inadequate regulations that do not reflect the intentions of the Animal Welfare Act. This undermines the value of the amazing animal welfare law that we actually have. Good animal husbandry and good welfare are not only about avoiding suffering in animals in the form of stress, fear and pain, but also about giving them an opportunity for positive experiences, that is, satisfaction and joy. In June 2020 the UN Environment Programme U nep presented the Preventing the Next Pandemic – Zoonotic Diseases and How to Break the Chain of Transmission. The increase in animal-human infection is due to a wide range of factors, including unsustainable farming, poor animal husbandry, the exploitation of wild animals, and more. Climate change and the impoverishment of nature also contribute negatively to this. Humans and animals share the same world. We need to work more on the one health concept for improved animal and public health. Animals, both wild and domestic, and humans are exposed to the same type of disease-causing virus and bacteria. We are also exposed to antibiotic resistance. Doctors, veterinarians and biologists must work together to trace the various types of infection that exist in nature in order to ultimately prevent the spread of viruses from animals to humans. As has been said earlier in this debate, there is a need for a UN declaration on animal welfare. Now the whole world is affected by the coronapdemine. These questions are more topical than ever. Right now there are examples of how covid-19 infects between humans and animals and back to humans again. One clear example is the mink industry. The Green Party has been a driving force for the mink farms not to be allowed to breed in Sweden in 2021, but we believe that they should be completely closed, for public health reasons. The risk of mutating the virus when it is transmitted between humans and animals is a very serious risk. This is not about production that is essential for human survival, but about furs, which are mainly sold to the upper classes in China and Russia. The Green Party believes that the mink industry should also be shut down for animal welfare reasons. The mink farms do not meet the requirements of the Animal Welfare Act for natural behaviour, and there are insufficient regulations to meet the requirements of the Animal Welfare Act. This winter, in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, we have had a strong focus on issues relating to animals that suffer in slaughterhouses. In Sweden there is a strict requirement that no slaughter should take place without prior stunning. Unfortunately, for some species and some methods there are major shortcomings here. Chickens are not always stunned by electricity, the pigs are stunned with carbon dioxide, but the gas causes the pigs pain and panic before the pigs lose consciousness. There will be more fish farms, but neither the environment in fish farming nor slaughter will work well enough. The best animal welfare law must also be applied much better. The other day, my colleague Elisabeth Falkhaven and Parliament's animal welfare network held a seminar on dog smuggling. It is not easy to tackle the problem of the illegal introduction of dogs because there are people who are prepared to go very far to provide animals and mislead potential buyers. The animals are often given false identity and health certificates in order to give the impression that they have complied with the relevant regulations. The most effective weapon against the illegal introduction of dogs is, of course, that anyone who wants to buy a dog has the patience to wait to buy a dog that you are absolutely sure of has been born and raised under good conditions. This is also evident from the report on which we are to adopt a position today. The committee notes that it is illegal to smuggle dogs into Sweden and that it is punishable to buy a smuggled dog. The consumer must therefore ensure that the dog he buys comes from a serious seller and that he does not violate the rules. There are currently no proposals for strengthening the legislation, but I want to make it clear that it will have to be developed. If we consider one more step, we can see that trafficking in animals is closely related to drug trafficking and trafficking. There is also the argument that there are no buyers, nor is there a market. However, the Customs Service has been clear. The seminar here in Parliament discussed how to give Tullverket increased opportunities to control dog smuggling. It was discussed that sanctions should be tightened up and how other legislation, such as animal health legislation, might need to be changed in order to strengthen these opportunities. This is an issue we need to address for next year. Madam President, I would like In a climate-smart agriculture, animals play a central role. They contribute with natural fertilizer, and they eat grasslands such as grass and clover, which in turn contribute to natural nitrogen fixation and carbon storage. Even lean soils serve as pastures, surfaces that would otherwise not have contributed to any food production. At the same time, the animals keep the landscape open and help create habitats for multitudes of people, animals and plants. Natural pastures are among the most species-rich habitats in Sweden. In sustainable animal husbandry, animals need to eat more of the feed resources that humans cannot eat. These include for example coarse fodder in the form of forage, but also various residues from, among other things, the food industry. This is where organic farming is located at the front. For example, less heavy feed and less of crops that are edible for humans in feed states are used for organic dairy cows compared to conventional ones. Almost half of all meat consumed in Sweden is imported. It comes from industrial animal husbandry that does not meet the animal welfare requirements that apply in Sweden and where antibiotics are also overused. Such industrial meat is not part of sustainable agriculture. Stronger instruments are needed for consumers to opt out of these products and instead choose food from sustainable production. In order to reduce the climate impact of animal husbandry, it is important to switch to fossil-free fuels, to have an efficient plant nutrition house that minimises the evaporation of nitrous oxide and to have an animal husbandry that promotes healthy animals, since healthy animals have a significantly lower environmental impact per kilogram of meat or milk produced than sick animals have. Animal welfare is therefore also an important tool in the climate work. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that the grazing requirement that exists in Swedish agriculture is also a climate requirement.
i-68e07b04a6408110-462	Madam President, I would like Member of Parliament of a Gardfjell talking about dog smuggling. This is clearly an important issue for the Green Party, because you had a seminar yesterday on this. I remember a picture I saw of 16 puppies lined up in three rows that had been put down because they were in such bad shape. It stabbed my heart because I'm a dog owner myself. However, if we want to pursue these issues seriously, priority should be given to the veterinary shortage that exists in the country. It is a major problem that the Swedish Customs does not get hold of district veterans who can help these dogs, and the problem is growing as people get contraband dogs, which come into Sweden because they do not have enough control to stop them. These dogs will need veterinary help. Over the next 12 months, veterinary services will need to recruit at least 365 new veterinarians. In Sweden, about 90 veterinarians are examined each year. The number of training places would need to be doubled. This information came already this summer. There is also a need for 134 certified animal nurses and 121 animal carers. The increasing number of pets plus farm animals makes no sense. That is why priority must be given to this issue. What does the Green Party intend to do?
i-68e07b04a6408110-467	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Marléne Lund Kopparklint is asking these questions, because this is important. I am pleased that the Green Party is in charge of these issues, but the seminar led by my colleague Elisabeth Falkhaven was arranged by the Swedish Parliament's Animal Welfare Network. We have a wide-ranging debate on these issues in Parliament, and indeed many measures are needed to stop the smuggling of dogs. Some of them have the Tullverket lifted up. More resources are needed to review and control smuggling and stronger requirements in legislation that allow Customs to access contraband dogs affected by rabies, for example. There is also a need for soft instruments linked to this, such as information for those who want to buy a dog. Going to fake marketing in this context is very problematic. The second issue raised by Marléne Lund Kopparklint is also important, namely what we are doing about the veterinary shortage. Here the government has taken many measures. In the budget we have made increased investments in district veterinarians. Measures have also been taken for more training places at SLU to be able to train more veterinarians.
i-68e07b04a6408110-471	Madam President, I would like There are not enough training places, and it becomes clear when you hear the figures that it does not make sense. 365 veterinarians are needed, but there are only a few places at SLU. There must be more places, both in the case of veterinarians and animal nurses. The Member of Parliament is talking about contraband dogs with rabies and other diseases. They are at risk of infecting other dogs and humans, and it is important that there is animal health care that covers the need. And there is a great shortage here. At the Swedish Board of Agriculture you are extremely aware that there are no veterinarians, but you cannot do more than point out to the Ministry that SLU needs more funds. It is a clear signal to the government that what is being done is not enough. I have visited animal hospitals several times and talked with veterinarians, and they testify that they must say no to pets that need help. What do you do with a sick dog or a pregnant bitch who will puppy when there are no veterinarians and animal carers? What do you do at such times? Now the number of pets in Sweden is also increasing.
i-68e07b04a6408110-475	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has, of course, driven the government's efforts. This applies to both the investment in district veterans and the investment in more training places. But we're not staying there. Soon, the Riksdag will receive the evaluation of the Swedish National Audit Office's district veterinary activities. This report will be looked at by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and we will therefore be discussing these issues in plenary this year. It feels important. In addition, of course, we need to look at how the investments we have made can be exchanged, put in place and give the results that they are supposed to give. This is a very important area. I am also keen and keen that more of the students who choose to study veterinary at SLU in Uppsala, my home university, should be involved in farm animals. We have seen that interest in small animals has grown among the newly graduated veterinarians, but we also need veterinarians who know agriculture and agriculture and can do a good job there.
