i-6cee4c3e254db9de-28	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration how the Minister and the Government ensure that political activists and refugees are not sent to the security services of authoritarian countries, whether the Minister intends to ensure that the anti-terrorist practice of the Security Police is directed against those who are the real enemies of peace, democracy and human rights, whether the Minister intends to ensure that the anti-terrorist practice of the Security Police is modernised and adapted to real conditions of power in the Middle East, what the Minister intends to do so that our counter-terrorism does not work discriminatoryly, and whether the Minister intends to examine the distortions that have occurred in the direction of the Security Service's counter-terrorism policy. The interpellation has been handed over to me. It is of great importance to prevent people who are or may become security threats to Sweden from staying or establishing themselves in the country. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that any person seeking asylum or residence permit on a different basis in Sweden will be given legal certainty and individual redress. A person shall not be deported to a country where he or she is at risk of being subjected to the death penalty, torture, persecution or other degrading or inhumane treatment or punishment. I have full confidence in the work of the Swedish Security Service on these matters and the assessment of the risks of return by the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts. The Security Service may not record information about a person solely because of his or her ethnic origin, political opinions, religion, health or sexual orientation. The Swedish Security and Privacy Protection Board conducts inspections to check how the Swedish Security Service processes personal data. The Swedish Security Service's counter-terrorist work is based on the threat assessment carried out by the Authority and the National Centre for Terrorist Threat Assessment, NCT, in relation to terrorism in Sweden and abroad. The work is both short-term, focusing on attacks and other acts of violence, and long-term prevention. Both the Swedish Security Service and the NCT believe that the threat of attacks against Sweden comes primarily from actors who have a violent Islamist or right-wing ideology. Similar assessments are made by the majority of the foreign services with which the authorities interact. The Swedish Security Service is also working on long-term prevention by counteracting funding, recruitment and radicalisation. Cooperation at national and international level is of great importance for successful counter-terrorism efforts. Internationally, the Swedish Security Service cooperates most closely with the Nordic services, with countries within the EU and with other Western countries. In this context, it should also be stressed that EU Member States, including Sweden, are implementing UN Security Council sanctions to counter international terrorism. Within this framework, the EU has also introduced its own targeted measures against persons and entities involved in terrorism. I have full confidence that the Security Service and the NCT are carrying out a thorough analysis of the terrorist threat and that the Security Service is focusing its work on the basis of this assessment. Having said that, I have no intention of initiating an investigation into the counter-terrorist activities of the Security Service. However, I will continue to follow this issue closely.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-34	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg for his answer. Unfortunately, the reality is not as described by the Minister: refugees and asylum seekers should be given the right to seek asylum safely or to stay in this country. Unfortunately, these new laws increasingly affect people who are innocent. Young Zozan Büyük has been a case in the media that has raised concerns and fears about what is actually being done by a great many journalists and politicians. Security laws are used against the innocent mother of two children Zozan, who was born in Belgium and is a citizen there and has married a Swedish Kurds here. I am very terrified when I read the record of the hearing, which I then want to leave to the minister. I seriously believed that the time of the indexes of opinions had passed. I seriously believed that Sweden could participate in non-profit association meetings. I'm going to quote some of the minutes of the interview with her. It is also confidential. I've been looking at your Facebook profile. You, Zozan Büyük, like HDP.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-38	Are you interested in politics? – Actually, not, but I like people who fight for the freedom of the Kurds. - But you're still close to HDP? I can add that over 10 million Turks and Kurds have voted for the party HDP. They have over 10%. I'll continue to quote from the hearing record: - You're a sympathizer with HDP? - No, I just liked them. – But you've also liked– I leave out here the name of a man– who is also a member of the BDP. – Yes, but he is actually my father's friend, and he is also fighting for the Kurds. - But you've been playing his Facebook?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-49	Turkey has prevented them from staying there. Now they will also close HDP. The hearing continues: - But you still like HDP? You like to fight for the rights of the Kurds? – I think HDP is very good. They're fighting for women's rights. - But you're still laiking their website. Are you involved in Kurdish associations?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-54	– But have you danced or been involved in a nonprofit association? – Yes, I have danced and been part of a food culture association, but it was in Belgium, not in Sweden, and it was ten years ago. – But if you're going to get involved in the Kurdish cause, which association are you going to turn to? ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I must remind the honourable Member that we must not debate individual cases in this House. ) I have nine other cases where people have turned to me. The lives of several individuals are at stake. They're not just individuals. They're over ten, and about thirty are on the Sapo list. Neither Amnesty nor the lawyers nor anyone else knows why, except that in this case there is a protocol that I have been able to obtain. Is that a registration of opinions? Is it IS terrorists or racists who are being hunted, or is it common asylum seekers? That's my question.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-60	Individual matters must not be debated in this House.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-61	Madam President, I would like It is a difficult interpellation to discuss because it is almost entirely based on individual cases. As Minister, I will not comment on individual matters. Then I have to try to zoom out. I've been trying to explain what processes look like. This applies to how the Swedish Security Service makes the various assessments of terrorist threats against Sweden and how they are updated over time. But it is also important to have a broader responsibility to prevent, for example, terrorism in our country and internationally. I have also tried to explain, without going into it in detail, that on migration issues there is a system in which people have the right to have their case tried. There are also court proceedings in this, and there is an opportunity to appeal if you do not feel that it is going your way. I believe that, in general, this is a process of legal certainty. Then it may still be that in individual cases it can be perceived as unfair or that one was not listened to in the proceedings. Nevertheless, that is why we have built a system in which independent authorities and courts will make most of the decisions on these issues. There is some information about non-Swedish citizens, for example. We have legislation that gives the Security Service additional powers. Some of this information cannot be fully disseminated because it reveals the working methods of the Security Service. The Riksdag has found that to be a good model. The Parliament has voted and implemented the legislation that has made this possible for non-Swedish citizens. It is important that you can make a safety assessment and that Säpo has a word on the team when it comes to some people. I think it makes sense to have it. It's important that you do it. Of course, it is not the case that all information on the matter is secret. But these may be things that the Security Service cannot go on with. It is ultimately the court that decides whether it thinks there are good enough reasons from the Security Service. It is still the authorities and courts that base their decisions on a basis from another authority. I believe that it is a legal test of this that is being carried out. I think it's perfectly reasonable that the Security Service doesn't have to publish everything in every part. They will also disclose their methods and their important work to keep Sweden safe.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-70	I would like to say once again that the content of the decisions taken by the authorities in individual cases must not be criticised or debated in this House. Nor do we have the order of handing over acts, but it is the spoken word that applies in this House. In such a case, any documents may be handed over outside the Chamber.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-71	Madam President, I would like It is very strange that we Members of Parliament are not even allowed to review or criticise the agency. After 12 years as a Member of Parliament, this is the first time I have received such a message. We will of course criticise. It's not an individual case. Some thirty people have been affected by this. That's nine cases I brought with me. These are people who were born in this country and have applied for a job but who are not allowed to work because of Säpo. The minister says the decision will come to court. No, the Secret Service's documents don't come to anyone else for decision. The government has also been involved in individual cases. There were three Islamic terrorims who were not to be sent back because the government felt they should not be expelled. Why is it possible for terrorists? Why is it not possible for ordinary people? Why is it not possible for Zozan Büyük and the others who are citizens and do the right thing, work, pay taxes and contribute to the development of society? Those who are security risks are the ones that Säpo misses. They get help from the community and the State Department to get home. It is the IS/ Daish women, it is about fifty or hundreds of Daish terrorists or white power movements that are dangerous to our safety. Sure, we'll discuss it. It's the registration of opinions. When can you not participate in society or in ethnic groups? The Government is investing hundreds of millions of SEK for ethnic groups' associations and activities. When can you not participate? Actually, I want to know what kind of responsibility you have. Özdemir Resul was 20 years old and was expelled not even over a year ago from Sweden to Turkey. He's in Turkish prison, and he was tortured. I talked to his lawyers. He has two lawyers. What is the responsibility of these people? Just because they're not Daish terrorists or imams, they don't have the right to have their case tried. Why has Säpo become Turkish state errand boys? Only in Turkey are Kurds, HDP and other people being oppositional. All of a sudden they do so in Sweden. In Sweden, Säpo does exactly as Turkey does. Here you can see exactly what she has said. She has said: I have only liked HDP's website, and that is enough. In that case, we are all potential terrorists. It is ethnic Swedes who have demonstrated in the fight against Daish. What are we gonna say about them? Should Säpo label millions of people around the world who are heroes, women and men, who Sweden supports with weapons and much more? This is rightly done both in Iraq and in Syria. Those acts are also criminals according to Säpo and our laws, aren't they? These are not individual cases. It is very important that the President also knows: Sweden is helping the Kurds in Syria and in Iraq in the fight against Daish. Here it is about people who are not allowed to work because they have demonstrated or latched any side. Three of the people who didn't get a job have e-mailed me saying, "We were born here." I have happened to laika a demonstration or an article that is in favour of JOIPG in the fight against Daish. That's all I do. I've been a regular liberal. I've never been politically active. The question is: How do the Minister and Sweden guarantee that these people, whose parents have fled, will have their rights served here like everyone else?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-85	Madam President, I would like In the last speech, the Member of Parliament made a number of false statements. The first thing I need to correct is that the government has not decided that any imams who have received expulsion decisions should remain in Sweden. The Swedish government has decided on expulsion in all the cases that have been up to the media. On the other hand, the government is prevented when a court decides that there are enforcement obstacles. A Swedish government may not break the law and expel when there are enforcement obstacles. We've decided on expulsion. However, as there are enforcement obstacles, it must not be implemented. This applies to all the people in which the courts decide that there are enforcement obstacles. It is also wrong to claim that the Swedish Government is helping adults home and repatriating them. There is a general debate that one should do so and bring them home. These are people who have come down to fight or help Daish in the region. We do not advocate such a line. We have said that we will try to bring home the children who are having a very difficult time in the camps. We have also said that we should do it if possible. We've brought home seven orphans. That's perfectly reasonable, because children are not perpetrators. They're victims of these conflicts. However, we have no idea that we are going to help these adults, who have travelled down towards the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' requests and recommendations – the sharpest recommendation they have had – back to Sweden in that way. It's not government policy. On the other hand, it is the government's policy to try to demand responsibility. Regionally, we are seeing whether we can bring about an international mechanism that condemns people who have participated in these terrible terrorist organisations in Syria and Iraq. We are also one of the major contributors to moving forward after the Syria crisis and improving the living conditions of people in the region, and we have earmarked specific efforts on Eastern Syria. The Swedish Government is working very hard and is one of those who have tried to get others to involve the Kurdish organisations in the processes in Syria in order for it to be possible to move forward. The Swedish Government does not believe that there can be a similarity between, for example, PKK and organisations such as SDC or PYD. On the other hand, there are some organisations within the Kurdish family, if you say so, that are terror-rated by the EU – and that is the PKK. It is therefore incredibly important to draw boundaries and do so seriously. I have great confidence that the authorities will take these issues seriously, but also that the courts will judge on the basis of what actually exists. If courts feel that the evidence available is not sufficient, there is every possibility for a court to take other decisions. Similarly, for the record's sake, I would like to say that I have never heard of an individual matter in which someone has encountered what has been described in this House after clicking on a website. It is my general view that it is not a sufficient basis in any of these processes. To spread that image in the Swedish parliament and end by putting Sweden and Turkey on an equal footing with regard to the rule of law and the view of terrorism is, in fact, a terrible statement.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-95	Madam President, I would like To be honest, it is in these 21 pages. I too was shocked last night; I could not sleep. I thought it was a joke, but it's true. Säpo himself says that she is not classified as a terrorist, but she is still expelled. She has a child here and a child with her. It's nothing but division. Whether the Minister wants to or not, many Kurds have heard from them. They're very worried, because on the same basis, they've been lying or sharing something with Daish, and they've been subject to the Security Service's investigation. Some have not got jobs that they have applied for, and some have applied for asylum but cannot get a residence permit. Some people are banned for ten years. The Minister corrects me and says that this is not a decision. Well, the government has taken a stand. Those persons, who pose a risk to national security, shall not be expelled because of enforcement obstacles. It is true that it has helped – rightly – seven orphans here, but it is actually 30 women with children who have made their way home and that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the authorities have helped. They may not have received help on the ground, but they have still smuggled in and made their way back via Turkey. When they have arrived in Arlanda or been on site in Turkey, they have been helped. It's not just my statements, it's true. To conclude, I wish this were not true, but unfortunately the Security Service is working with them in Europe, and in Europe it is working with Turkey. That was exactly what happened in the case of Results: he was expelled with the support of our security police – and Turkish. Well, it's comparable to being Erdo and an errand boy.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-99	Madam President, I would like It is good that we have clarified that the government is prevented from taking a decision to execute an expulsion if the courts have taken a decision on it. The government can't make any other decision. It was good that we cleared it up. It is also good that we clarified that we do not repatriate adult people from these areas. If people have made it to the border or come to Sweden, we must of course handle them just like all other people, but the Swedish government does not help with that work. When it comes to the issue of Turkey and Sweden, few countries have been so clear about human rights violations and the criticism of how the justice system has been handled, as have some political groupings. I do not know how many decisions I have had to make in the government where we have refused legal assistance to Turkey because they use legislation that we do not have in Sweden and that we do not believe meets the requirements that apply. Sweden cannot be compared to Turkey, and I think that one should be careful to do so. Nor can it be argued in this debate that, on the one hand, the basis read shows that individuals have been given a decision because they have liked a website and, on the other hand, that not all the documents have been presented openly. If it is the case that there is other information and knowledge at the Swedish Security Service, it is probably the one that is the important knowledge in the matter. I have full confidence that courts and authorities have the ability to value that information and make wise decisions.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-102	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked the Minister for Environment and Climate and the Deputy Prime Minister whether it is reasonable for large companies to sue states outside the ordinary justice system because they want to tighten up their climate and environmental policies, as is the case with the Energy Charter Treaty investor clause, as well as if the government supports the proposals that are about reforming the Energy Charter Treaty by removing investor protection, ISDS, so that companies cannot sue states outside the ordinary justice system. He has also asked what changes, according to the Government, are needed to enable the Energy Charter Treaty to contribute positively to the renewable energy transition that is necessary to achieve the Paris Agreement's climate goals and whether Sweden is prepared to leave the Energy Charter Treaty if the negotiations do not come to an end and ensure that the agreement meets global climate and environmental requirements, including through the removal of the current investor protection for fossil fuels. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I can assure Jens Holm that the government fully supports all the EU's draft texts in the revision, as well as its efforts to reform, in particular, the regulation of investment protection. The very objective of clearly establishing and confirming the right of states to regulate in order to achieve legitimate policy objectives, such as the Paris Agreement, was highlighted in particular in the negotiating mandate that the government anchored in the Riksdag in July 2019. The fact that Sweden and the other EU Member States speak together with one voice is absolutely essential for our arguments to gain weight in international negotiations. Unfortunately, negotiations have been slower than the government and the European Union wanted, and we are still at a stage in which the parties present their initial proposals. Hopefully, we are now entering a stage where joint negotiating texts can be discussed. It is still too early to speculate on what the final outcome of the negotiations might be, and it is therefore not meaningful to speculate on how the government would react to different future outcomes. In principle, I can see that investment protection agreements are an important component of Sweden's and the EU's foreign and trade policy. This also means that there must be a rule-driven mechanism for international dispute resolution. I will, of course, continue to work towards revising the Energy Charter Treaty so that there is no room for interpretation as regards the right of states to regulate in order to achieve the Paris Agreement and other environmental objectives.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-108	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anders Ygeman for the answer to my interpellation. This is an important debate, because it is basically about our ability to legislate in order to achieve our climate goals and other important political objectives that we debate every day and clubs in Parliament's Chamber. In February this year there was a lawsuit from the German energy company RWE against the Dutch Government for the Netherlands, I think, very far-sighted and good decision to phase out the coal power in the country. The price tag set by the German energy company is EUR 1.4 billion, about SEK 15 billion, in compensation from the Netherlands. There are many more similar examples where big companies sue states because they want to regulate emissions, opportunities to extract fossil energy and other things. We are well acquainted with our own state-owned company Vattenfall, which on two occasions has sued Germany for environmental reasons – once because it wanted to phase out nuclear power, once before because it locally made tougher demands on it then of Vattenfall-owned company Moorburg in Hamburg. Common to these and many other lawsuits – I know about 130 – is that they are done with the support of the International Energy Charter Treaty. This Treaty contains an investor clause in which companies have the right to sue States. States have not reversed the possibility of imposing requirements on companies on the basis of the clause. The lawsuits, Madam President, are made not in the ordinary judicial system but in private courts. One of these is based here in Stockholm, at the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. It may seem strange, but that's actually how it works. There is no transparency at all in the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, so we do not know how many such companies – state-conform matters are going on there. Fortunately, more and more people have drawn their ears and think that this is a strange procedure and that it makes it difficult for countries to take the lead in the environmental field. Now, just as the Minister was in the process of reforming the International Energy Charter Treaty. Madam President, I would like to welcome the fact that the Minister for Energy says that the Swedish line is to be free to legislate, not least in the environmental field. But then we should remember that we can legislate now. That is what we do every day in this House. The problem with investor protection in the International Energy Charter Treaty is that this regulation can bring about a price tag, since companies have the right to sue states for expected revenue losses. I would like to ask the Minister for Energy: Is the Swedish line also that companies should no longer be able to sue states under the Energy Charter Treaty, ECT? I would also like to ask whether the Minister thinks the procedure that is taking place now is reasonable, namely that the companies sue the states within the framework of private courts, tribunals, and not in the ordinary judicial system. Are not all the members of the European Union constitutional states? In that case, the ordinary judicial system should be applied, not private courts.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-117	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my party colleague, Jens Holm, for asking this important question. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. From the answer, however, I am concerned. The government is faltering about investor protection. It has already had implications in countries' climate and environmental objectives. We've been warning about investor protection for a long time. What does investor protection really mean? Well, companies can sue states in investor tribunals outside the ordinary justice system. States, on the other hand, cannot sue companies. The procedure usually goes under the letter abbreviation ISDS and has become an increasingly common basis for companies to sue states on. It is therefore a legal mechanism that goes beyond the judicial system, with zero transparency. So far, the ISDS mechanism of the Energy Charter Treaty has been used in a number of arbitration procedures, many more than any other investment agreement in the world. This is an interesting way of looking at entrepreneurship, I think. Support schemes are created so that companies do not in any way have to take responsibility for their poor future analysis. The fact that in 2015 the energy company RWE is building a coal power plant without having taken into account that the industry no longer has any prospects is bad entrepreneurship, quite simply. Having a system that allows such a company to sue a state, the Netherlands, because it decided to stop using coal power in 2030, shows how harmful the system is. Investment moods are a threat to democracy and make it difficult for countries to act for the environment, health, welfare and climate. These are not small sums of money we are talking about, but sums that can undermine countries' budgets. This means that companies have an enormous amount of power over countries. We need to take more responsibility. We cannot give companies this kind of power, neither to dictate our country's social development nor to risk speeding up the climate crisis. It is therefore strange that the Minister replies that the right to legislate is guaranteed. That is our task in this House. The problem is that when we do that, companies can sue us for taking democratic decisions about changes that our society requires. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it intends to continue to be in line with investor protection.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-123	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that we agree on the main features of investment protection in the future and that it cannot be used to prevent the green transition and climate change. On this point, we agree. Then there seems to be some murkyness in the analysis from the Left Party. It is not the investment protection agreement that allows states to be sued by companies. This possibility exists in all EU countries. If one day one invests under the laws in force and the Government and the Riksdag then changes the day after, there is a possibility of compensation for those affected by such a decision, regardless of the reasons for the decision. That is reasonable in a state governed by the rule of law. That is also why, of course, states cannot sue investors under the Investment Protection Agreement. After all, we have the legislative power. Like both Lorena Delgado Varas and Jens Holm said, we make laws every day and can do so in this area too. Unlike the Left Party – here I want to be clear – we endorse the arbitration procedure. It is a simpler, faster and cheaper way to get countries' and states' conditions tested. I'm pretty proud that one of those who are diligently engaged in this is the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, which Jens Holm was in on. It is, of course, possible to say as a political party or political force that we should not have any investment protection agreements. Of course, it is also possible as a nation to choose not to assist any of the investment protection agreements that exist. But these are mutually beneficial in that Swedish companies that get caught in other countries can have their rights tested in accordance with the investment protection agreements. It is a mutual right to facilitate investment in other countries, because the legal conditions – we are almost 200 countries on the planet now – differ greatly from country to country. Then these international agreements contribute to the security of the investor, which facilitates foreign investment. Those countries that choose not to be part of this will, of course, have to pay a premium for it because investors cannot be sure under what conditions apply. Having said that, it is of course of the utmost importance to ensure that Sweden does not assist any such agreements that could be an obstacle to the green transition in Sweden or Europe. There I understood that me and the interpellant and also Lorena Delgado Varas were in agreement.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-129	Madam President, I would like Now I think it's a little important to keep your tongue right in the mouth. The Minister does not want progressive environmental legislation to be prevented by an international agreement, in this case the International Energy Charter Treaty, and that is a good thing. But if there is a price tag with environmental legislation of SEK 10 billion, maybe SEK 20 billion or, as when Vattenfall sued Germany, SEK 62 billion, anyone will understand that they are reluctant to implement that environmental law – if you have to pay such a high compensation to an international company that sues a state. I would therefore like to repeat my question, Madam President: does the Swedish position simply mean that the international Energy Charter Treaty should make it clear that the Member States can legislate in this Treaty? Or does the Swedish position mean that Member States should be able to legislate without fear of billions of lawsuits in private courts? That is exactly what this debate is about. Madam President, I would like It will be a little strange when Anders Ygeman says that there is an opportunity in all EU countries to sue a state if one considers that one's future profits are jeopardised. Italy has left the International Energy Charter Treaty precisely for this reason. They don't want billions like this against themselves anymore. But Italy continues to be a rule of law. You can go to court in Italy if you feel discriminated against or mistreated. Madam President, I would like This was exactly how Swedish Vattenfall did when Germany decided in 2011 to phase out nuclear power in that country. Vattenfall owned a number of reactors in Germany and went to the German court. They ran the proceedings in German courts, won and were promised compensation. But what Vattenfall did at the same time was that it also went to a private court under the International Energy Charter Treaty. I would like to hear from Anders Ygeman whether he really believes that as an international company, one should be able to use the ordinary justice system and at the same time have an extra chance to go to a private court and sue a state for tens of billions of dollars. That is what this debate is about. All EU Member States are the rule of law. This revision of the International Energy Charter Treaty is currently being carried out because the European Court of Justice decided a few years ago that ISDS mechanisms such as these, i.e. where companies can sue states, are obsolete under the rule of law. But now the Social Democratic Government seems to think that it is all right that the companies should have an extra chance to sue states. It is important here that we receive a clear message from the Minister. What's the deal? Madam President, I would like In these cases you do not go to a public court, but you go to a private tribunal. One of the most frequently hired is the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce's tribunal, which is called the SCC. There is no transparency at all, but there is total secrecy about everything. I personally tried to get information out of there, and I've been there, but everything is over. It doesn't work like an ordinary court. I would like to hear from Anders Ygeman whether the government believes that a procedure is in order in which companies can sue states in private tribunals where there is no transparency whatsoever.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-137	Madam President, I would like A cheaper way, the Minister talked about, and I would like to know: Cheaper for whom? I would like to see a government that says no to ISDS. Investments can be tested within our legal system. Few issues in global economic governance have aroused more controversy or public reaction than this system between investors and states. Investors have submitted more than 1 000 ISDS claims based on the global network of 3 000 investment agreements. In 2017, France drew up a law to stop the extraction of fossil fuels on all French territories until 2040. No more oil or gas would be extracted from the soil after that year. The ambition was to transform the words of the Paris Agreement into reality. The bill was named after Hulot, who was the minister who pushed the issue. But after the bill was formed, the threats came from Vermilion, a Canadian fossil company. The fear was that the ISDS mechanism would bring enormous fines to France. This fear watered down the law so much that the final product was that exploitation permits could be renewed after the 2040 deadline. The law thus had the opposite effect compared to the objective it wanted to achieve. Worse still, when the new law was passed, the Environment Minister Hulot signed more permits for fossil fuels than his predecessors in the Environment Department had done. I think the list can be made long in terms of how ISDS affects, and you don't even have to go to trial to influence.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-142	Madam President, I would like I'm a little concerned about what's really the Left Party's position. First, Jens Holm writes an interpellation about a lot of views on how this investment agreement should be designed, and now Lorena Delgado Varas says that we should not have any such agreement at all and that she wishes a government that says no. Whether it is a government with or without the support of the Left Party is not quite clear from Jens Holm's argumentation. He'll be happy to sort out his last line if you want such a mechanism or not. If you don't want it, it's not very interesting what line the government will take. I think it's important to remember that this isn't just about what's going on here. It is an important protection for those who are going to invest in renewable energy. It is a question of equal treatment between domestic and foreign companies. There are a number of examples of how this and other similar mechanisms have protected renewable energy. The question is whether Lorena Delgado Varas, and possibly the Left Party, thinks that this protection should not exist for renewable energy and that one should not have the same protection as national companies in the respective countries. Lorena Delgado Varas also asked me the question: Cheaper for whom? The answer is that it will be cheaper for the parties. It will be quicker and easier to decide this for the parties. Jens Holm asked a question for clarification. The Swedish position, which as far as I understand it was anchored in the Riksdag as early as 2019, is that investment protection should not include energy production from fossil fuels. I understand that we agree on this, at least with half of those who are debating here today. Jens Holm had a question about forum elections. As far as I understand, one may be suing someone in different forums, but then one has to choose in which forum the legal dispute is to be settled. We have a similar case where Huawei has sued Sweden because they believe they are discriminated against. At the same time, they have brought the state to justice. Huawei must then choose in which forum they want the dispute to be settled. They can choose the way of court or arbitration. That's the case with Huawei. They will have to choose between this. This is what I think it looks like in most agreements. It seems like a reasonable way to go, I think. I think I have thereby answered the questions put by Jens Holm and Lorena Delgado.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-149	Madam President, I would like I want to correct the Minister for Energy. The companies can both use the ordinary justice system and do as Vattenfall and have an arbitration procedure, as I described in my previous speech. For example, there are many in the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, which is one of the places where states are simply sued. My question to Ygeman, to which he did not answer, was whether he thinks it is reasonable that it works as it does in the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. There's total secrecy. The Left Party's line is the same as when we raised the issue in the EU Council two years ago. We want Sweden to work towards the complete removal of investor protection. If it does not work, Sweden will leave the international Energy Charter Treaty, as Italy, for example, did a few years ago. It should be remembered that in the International Energy Charter Treaty, we are in the company of countries such as Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Russia, Belarus – that is Belarus – Turkey and so on. You might think this is a special company. This makes the whole process difficult to reform. I would like to ask the Minister how the international Energy Charter Treaty is actually being reformed. Isn't unanimity there? All countries have to agree, don't they? This also applies to Kazakhstan, Belarus and Uzbekistan. Does the Minister not think it may be difficult to push through these changes? That's why I, Lorena Delgado Varas and the whole Left Party want to know what the next step in the Swedish line is if you don't get through a total reform. It should be to leave the international Energy Charter Treaty.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-154	Madam President, I would like Arbitrary procedures typically take place between companies, which is probably the background to the confidentiality of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and other arbitration procedures. I would not mind if there was less secrecy on issues where states are involved. Jens Holm asked what would happen if the European Union – we are negotiating together – loses. It would not be much of an Energy Charter Treaty if the European Union were not involved. We are, of course, not planning for failure, but planning for success. Our ambition is to push through these changes so that we benefit from renewable energy and a green transition throughout the world. That is our goal. It doesn't matter where on the planet carbon dioxide is released. It has the peculiarity that it is equally harmful to the climate regardless. That is why it is important for us to be involved in pushing for changes such as these in all the forums that affect the climate. It would be detrimental to our chances of success in the negotiations if we began to plan for loss, a failure, and that we could not succeed. There are, of course, a lot of countries in international agreements that have weak legal systems. Unfortunately, that is one of the points of arbitration. In these countries too, investors should be able to guarantee their rights. Sweden's companies should be able to participate and invest in poorer countries with a lower legal tradition and still be sure that their rights are not ignored. This applies regardless of whether it is Swedish wind power, solar power or other power types. To conclude, Madam President, we agree fundamentally on what line Sweden should take in the negotiations. We have been for the last three years, which is a strength for Sweden.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-159	Madam President, I would like Ida Drougge has asked me whether I intend to act to address the problems of the Afghan embassy's consulate in Lidingö. I know that there have been disturbances in and around the Afghan Embassy Consular Department in Lidingö. My staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have an ongoing dialogue with the Afghan Embassy and the Embassy Security Police, and they recently met representatives of the city of Lidingö to discuss the situation. Foreign embassies choose their own place of business, and they rent or purchase premises for this purpose. No special permit from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is required for this as long as the activities are located in the Stockholm area. All foreign embassies in Sweden have a responsibility to ensure that the activities they conduct here are carried out in an appropriate manner and in accordance with current laws and regulations. This also applies to the Afghan Embassy, which has a responsibility to ensure that the activities of the consular service are carried out in appropriate premises and in such a way that disorder of order does not occur. To the extent that disorder is a criminal offence, it is a matter for the Police Authority and other law enforcement authorities to investigate and prosecute. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to monitor developments on this issue. I hope that the situation can be resolved in the best possible way, both for the embassy, for the city, for the residents of the area and for all those visiting the consular department.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-164	Madam President, I would like Ever since the Afghan Embassy four five years ago, the consulate opened on the Näset island of Lidingö, these problems have been going on. I naturally agree with the part of the foreign minister's reply that refers to the consulate's own responsibility for the situation. However, it is at its head when, after all these years, after the numerous meetings of the City of Lidingö with the Embassy and after the efforts of the guards and police have not produced sufficient results. The municipality in question has financed and put in place bajamajas and increased order staff on site. The embassy claims to have a queue system today, which it did not have before. But the problems remain, as I said. The Consulate has been stormed on several occasions. It's been a knife fight. Neighbors of the consulate say they belong through the walls of the embassy. The economic activities that lie in the poem say that they hear recurring quarrels and violence inside the consulate. Sounds like you throw people in the walls. Visitors do not get help and have nowhere to sleep, but they are referred to it in Sweden quite a lot of times harsh the cold outdoors. They'll have to wait for days to get help. According to their own information, the Consulate has 90 000 visitors a year on an area so small that it is stated that the consulate staff are often allowed to eat in the kitchen due to lack of space. There's a preschool in this area. They sometimes dare not let the children out on the farm because there is so much unrest, and they find recurring stools and needles in the park and in the preschool area. Thus, despite countless meetings, problems have not been solved. There was a positive news recently, which is that after a meeting with the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board in Lidingö, the Embassy has said that they want to move. They do not want to remain in these premises, and they admit that they cannot overcome the problems in this place. But they also say that they need help in finding new premises and that they have not been able to do so on their own. Regardless of the responsibility of the embassy, and regardless of the fact that the municipality and the police have been trying to work on this issue for years now, this issue, drawn to the fore, is now enshrined in Article 30 of the Vienna Convention. It provides for an obligation on the host State, in this case Sweden, to either facilitate the acquisition by the sending State of the necessary premises or otherwise assist the sending State in the acquisition of premises. I would like to ask the Minister about that.
i-4Y1GgY4ovBhQNN7goDivz2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Drougge, for the question! As I said, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs conducts an ongoing dialogue with the Embassy through regular meetings and telephone calls. This dialogue has shown that the embassy seems genuinely concerned about overcoming the problems. The Embassy has announced that recent measures have been taken to limit the number of visitors, inter alia by requiring them to pre-book visits and by providing certain services electronically. Additional staff have also been employed. The Embassy has also informed the Ministry that it is actively looking for new premises. However, the Embassy believes that the media posse that has been recently has contributed to the unfortunate withdrawal of potential landlords. I fully understand that residents in the area and other visitors find the situation unsatisfactory. At the same time, I note that even if the consular service moves, it will continue to be necessary for the premises to be fit for purpose and for the operations to be carried out in such a way that the order can be maintained. The embassy seems to be genuinely committed to this. It is my hope that the measures taken and planned by the embassy will improve the situation, both for the town of Lidingö and the residents of the area and for the embassy and its visitors. We're following developments. Ida Drougge now invokes the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. However, since Afghanistan has an embassy here and the consular service is part of the embassy, the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations is applicable, not the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations would have been applicable if it were an independent consulate with its own so-called Consular District, but it does not really matter – it is basically the same provisions that are contained in both Conventions. I hope that this issue will be resolved for all parties.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-179	Madam President, I would like It is of course also relevant to other tenants and other places and municipalities how the state of Sweden manages to maintain law and order even in areas around consulates that receive large groups of people every year and in this case have a major inherent problem with conflicts between the embassy and those visitors who want the help of the consulate and the embassy. When these visitors are not helped, it is often based on a different view of whether they are citizens and are entitled to help from the Afghan Embassy at all. Ultimately, it is also linked to the migration policy that Sweden has pursued for many years and that we have many people in Sweden who do not get a residence permit here and who also do not get help from the embassy in question. In order to find a solution to these problems, it is important to address these basic problems and to maintain a strict migration policy and further strengthen it in the future so that the problems do not become even greater. As far as the order is concerned, the police have now announced that they do not have the resources to monitor this area. Instead, it calls on the municipality to finance security guards. In addition to the costs already incurred by the municipality for the cleaning and extra cleaning of this area, such costs would be up to SEK 1.2 million more per year, i.e. one to ensure a regime that may ultimately seem to be the responsibility of the state to maintain as the state is responsible for the police. I understand that the Minister is a foreign minister and is not responsible for the police. However, the embassy police are still actively working with the embassies, and since the minister himself pointed out that it is important to overcome the problems of order wherever the embassy is located, I would like to ask how to work on this issue. These problems have been going on for four or five years by now. Action has been taken, but it has not significantly improved the situation. On the contrary, it remains. I am thinking above all of measures in addition to a new location. A new, larger room with better location would of course help, but it is not certain that it will help completely. I also wonder if the Minister can develop his previous answer. We were told that the Vienna Convention on Embassies applies and has wordings similar to those of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. In fact, however, I did not hear a clear answer to the question as to how far the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that Sweden's obligation extends to assist with finding suitable premises. How far does that obligation go?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-186	Madam President, I would like Questions about how the police behave or not in terms of migration policy are the responsibility of other ministers, so I refer Ida Drougge to them. To make one thing clear: Afghanistan's presence is very important for us to maintain the good relations we have, for developing close cooperation with Afghanistan and for enabling people of Afghan origin to get the consular assistance they need, for example with passport documents and identity cards. For these reasons, it is also important that the activities are carried out effectively. As I said, my staff have had several contacts with representatives of the City of Lidingö about the situation at the Afghan consulate. We have been very clear about what contacts and legal obligations the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has and what the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can do and cannot do in concrete terms. As I said before, there is no legal obligation for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to provide premises for foreign embassies. It falls on its own absurdity that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs would have a practical opportunity to provide premises for all 107 embassies in Stockholm. We have no such resources. We feel that the City of Lidingö has gained an understanding of the role of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. My colleagues will of course continue the dialogue with the city of Lidingö, and I hope that the measures already taken and planned will lead to an improvement for all concerned.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-191	Madam President, I would like Afghanistan is the individual country in the world to which Sweden provides the most assistance. Up to 2024, we give SEK 8 – 8.5 billion in aid to Afghanistan. At the same time, we have a situation here in Sweden with people who consider themselves entitled to help from the Afghan embassy but do not get it, and because of this there is a major disorder of order – violence, fighting, insecurity, insecurity and sanitary problems. Traders testify that they are allowed to cull urine flowing from the street into their premises. Preschools cannot operate properly every day of the week, all year round, due to these major disorder of order. The answer given by the Minister today, given the seriousness of the situation and until it is resolved, cannot be enough. I understand, and I think everyone can agree, that it is perfectly reasonable for embassies themselves to find and arrange their own premises. I find it very difficult to believe that all foreign embassies in Sweden would like that help. But now we have an embassy that wants it and which explicitly and repeatedly says that they want help in finding premises.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-194	Madam President, I would like I can tell you that Ida Drougge does not have the correct information. The embassy has not turned to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for help in finding new premises. Nor is it correct that the Embassy should have argued that under the Vienna Convention, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has an obligation to assist in this. In the talks that my colleagues have had with the Embassy and with the City of Lidingö on the question of the opportunities and obligations of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to help in finding new premises, it has nowhere been claimed that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs would have infringed its obligations or would not have done what it could. It is in the interests of all parties to contribute to improving this situation and avoiding disturbances for residents in the area; of course this is the case. That is why we must all work together on this issue on the basis of our different roles. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs will continue its dialogue with the Embassy and with the City of Lidingö on the matter, but – once again – it is not the role of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to provide premises for foreign embassies in Stockholm. The news that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has received from the Embassy that they are actively working on the issue and are reviewing the possibility of finding better premises means that I assess the prospects for an improved situation in the future as good. We will continue to follow this issue.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-197	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I and the government have taken concrete steps to persuade the Iranian regime to abolish the death penalty and for Iran to respect human rights. She wonders if I and the government have sought contact with democratic forces in Iran that are working for women's trade union rights and the human rights of minorities. She also wonders what concrete action the government intends to take to support the efforts to promote the full enjoyment of human rights by women and to combat the regime in Iran. Amineh Kakabaveh wonders whether in my contacts with the United States I will try to persuade the new administration to draw attention not only to Iran's nuclear activities but also to the violations of human rights by the Iranian regime. She asks whether the Swedish Government will demand the release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, including some of those imprisoned women, as well as Ahmadreza Dja l ali and Hamid Chaab. Finally, he wonders whether the government will condemn the Tehran regime for the shooting of tens of people in Baluchistan and the mass arrests of hundreds of Kurdish environmental and human rights activists. I share Amineh Kakabaveh's concern about the continuing difficult human rights situation in Iran, including the widespread application of the death penalty in Iran. Sweden's position on the death penalty is well known. It is an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment, which violates human rights. Like the rest of the EU, we condemn the application of the death penalty in all its forms and under all circumstances. In our bilateral contacts with Iran, we consistently express our concern about its lack of respect for human rights and our position on the application of the death penalty. Within the EU, Sweden contributes to joint statements on the human rights situation in Iran, including women's and girls' rights, most recently in connection with the UN Human Rights Council in early March. Sweden also participates in the EU's joint courtship of the Iranian authorities on human rights, often in support of individual prisoners sentenced to death. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs conducts a continuous dialogue with various types of civil society organisations that promote respect for democracy and human rights in Iran. In December 2020, I awarded the Right Livelihood Prize to Iranian human rights defender Nasrin Sotoudeh, who promotes women's and girls' full enjoyment of human rights in Iran. I have addressed Mr Sotoudeh's specific situation directly with Iranian representatives. I have also spoken publicly in this case and also against the imprisonment of others who stand up for democracy and human rights. We note that the position of the Biden administration on Iran includes several dimensions in addition to the JCPOA nuclear agreement, including human rights violations. The United States, like the EU, has imposed sanctions on Iranian representatives for violations of human rights. The government remains in close and continuous contact with representatives of Iran on the case of Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab. I can confirm that our efforts continue unabated. Sweden is calling for the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali not to be enforced, and we, together with the rest of the EU, have protested against the death penalty on repeated occasions. At the same time, it is obvious that the circumstances in which Djalali is held are a serious threat to his health. It is therefore urgent that he be allowed to leave immediately the isolation he is reported to be in. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closely following the situation of persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities in Iran. Sweden's ambassador for human rights has expressed its concern through social media about how, among other things, Kurds and Bahai are treated in Iran and demanded that their rights be respected. The government's vote is clear in its demands towards Iran. I can assure you that Sweden will continue to address human rights in our bilateral dialogue with Iran and also through the EU and the UN.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. This kind of debate often occurs here, and there is a very good reason why both I and the Foreign Minister are involved. The rights and human rights of women and minorities are being violated in many countries. On 8 March, Javaid Rehman, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran, published a report stating that systematic violations of human rights occur. He explicitly states that the Islamic regime treats the women of the country as second-class citizens. He also writes that 16 000 children's marriages, with girls between the ages of 10 and 14, were registered only in 2019. Darkness is very large. He also writes in the report, which was also referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that ethnic and religious minorities, in particular Kurds, Bahais and Balucher and others, are systematically discriminated against. Over the past few months we have heard – and we have been contacted by many – that several hundred Kurdish civil society activists and cultural practitioners, such as the native language teacher Zara Mohamadi, have been given long prison sentences. Many others, environmentalists and trade union activists, have also been imprisoned. We have also received the terrible report that Zahra Esmaili, a 42-year-old woman, and 16 others would be hanged by cranes. When Zahra Esmaili saw this, she had a heart attack and died, but her dead body was hanged. I couldn't sleep at night myself. What cruelty! What kind of people do such things? Nor would one want this to happen to one's enemy. But this is happening, and it is not just these examples. On February 22, the IRGC opened fire against groups of balucher. It was workers who transported oil between Iran and Pakistan. About ten were murdered, among them a 17-year-old. This is going on all the time. For 42 years we have had reports on this. In the 1980s, 30,000 people were murdered. During 2018 to 2020 1 500 were murdered demonstrating n the students. Seven thousand people are still in prison. There are many examples of this. I understand that the Foreign Minister really wants to do things and do the right thing, but the question is: why has Sweden not tried to send a delegation, for example via the UN, to the prisons in Iran to inspect them? What about the women who are political prisoners? How's Ahmadreza? That is a question that his wife and children wanted me to ask the Foreign Minister. He's still isolated in Evin Prison Department 209. What is the government doing in this regard? Why do the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden not explicitly want the release of Ahmadreza? It's good that his death sentence is lifted.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-215	Madam President, I would like There are so many questions that of course you do not have time for everyone. Let me take a few at a time! I will begin by briefly saying that Swedish diplomats have visited prisons together with other EU diplomats. That is something I have also mentioned in the House earlier. So it is not true that we have not done so. Then we've done it. Then the speech is a lot about how we support women and about the terrible things that have happened. These include the specific cases raised by Amineh Kakabaveh. I have to say that there is no difference whatsoever in the way Amineh Kakabaveh and I and the government look at this. We think it is just as terrible as Amineh Kakabaveh thinks. How, then, can we support the forces that promote human rights and the full enjoyment of human rights by women? Firstly, it is important to have contact with the organisations in Iran that are working on this and to listen to them and hear what support they need. Secondly, it is important that we bring in the knowledge we gain from the contacts we have at policy level with these organisations and individual women. Therefore, I and Swedish diplomats raise the situation of women and girls in all statements in multilateral contexts. And we are trying to get it as much as possible into joint statements from the European Union, for example, and the United Nations. Thirdly, political support can be shown at ministerial level for important role models. The human rights defender Nasrin Sotoudeh is such an example, given her struggle for the full enjoyment of human rights by girls and women and also for improving the situation of minorities and other vulnerable groups. Therefore, it was of course a special honour for me and especially important to hand over the Right Livelihood Prize to Sotoudeh in December 2020. We've been in contact after that, too. It is not only a matter of highlighting and paying tribute to Sotoudeh himself and her great courage, but also of directing international attention to the objects of her struggle – other vulnerable individuals whose rights have been violated in Iran, in the region and throughout the world. In this context and in other public communication about Sotoudeh's fate, I have been clear. No one, either Sotoudeh himself or others in similar situations, deserves prison sentences for standing up for democracy and human rights. A fourth aspect of the work has been to provide concrete support in terms of women's and girls' opportunities for influence and participation in Iran. Such support is provided, for example, through the Swedish Institute's leadership programme for female entrepreneurs in a number of countries in the MENA region, including Iran. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has a close dialogue with the embassy so that the selection process is transparent and fair. Madam President, I would like There should be no confusion whatsoever about the Swedish position. I have clearly condemned violence on the part of the Iranian authorities against Iranian demonstrators and against human rights defenders. I have stood up for the freedom of expression, association and assembly and I have raised it constantly. My rejection of the authorities' practice of violence with regard to events in Iran, such as the demonstrations in 2019 and 2020, has been very clear. It's still the case. But we need dialogue. Dialogue is a prerequisite for the other party to take on board these messages.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-227	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister has this straight position and position also in the speaker's seat. I have no doubt about this. But the problem is that for 42 years this regime has totally ignored what we in Sweden are saying. It is a brutal regime we are dealing with. The problem is that, unfortunately, there has been no progress in the dialogue. I have never paid tribute to the United States' position on the Middle East. I won't do it either. But on one point I think Biden's administration is good. It links diplomatic contacts and, in particular, sanctions with the release of political prisoners by Iran, as well as those who have dual citizenship. That should be the position of the European Union and also of Sweden, especially with regard to our Swedish citizens. Both Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab have been taken hostage by Iran. I would like to ask once again: are we asking for their release or just for the death sentence against Ahmadreza to be lifted? Actually, it's very important to do that. With regard to prisons, I felt that a group should be sent, for example, to investigate the situation of women in prison. In fact, it is heartbreaking to receive as a woman Zeynab's letter about how terribly the perpetrators torture her and rape her, and she is certainly not alone. She herself writes a letter to the Islamic leader. That letter has come out, and I have quoted it in my interpellation. I hope everyone reads it, including the Secretary of State. When you read it, you shudder all over your body. It is so bad that this is done to women. Since you don't talk about rape in such cultures, you don't talk much about the details, even when you're in prison. In the films that have been made, very few women talk about this. This means that we are having a dialogue with barbarism. I have nothing against us having dialogue with the regime in Iran and other dictatorships, but the problem is that they are not listening to us. They want their own needs met. Iran's economy is at its bottom today, and they need sanctions to be lifted in areas such as human trafficking, the economy and so on. It is very gratifying that the outside world lifts Nasrin Sotoudeh. We have done so many times since she received 38 years in prison and 148 lashes for representing women's rights. It is also about Nargis, Nazanin, Yasaman Spideh, Spideh, Monireh and Samaneh. All of these are women's rights activists. One is 24 years old and will be in prison until she is 48 because she has not respected the decree of veil. That is how it is under that regime.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-235	Madam President, I would like I share Amineh Kakabaveh's great concern about the situation in Iran. We follow it closely, and there is no doubt that it is difficult. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has regular contacts with civil society and organisations representing vulnerable groups in Iran. This dialogue is very valuable and helps us to get a clearer picture of the situation. We have reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and the report on Iran highlights the very serious shortcomings that exist, not least the widespread application of the death penalty. The report also describes the vulnerable situation of women, girls and, not least, human rights defenders and the discrimination experienced by Kurds and other religious and ethnic minorities. It mentions in particular that Kurdish activities in recent years have been arrested, imprisoned and executed. It also points out that a number of Kurdish organisations are banned in Iran and that practitioners of the Bahai movement are a particularly vulnerable religious minority being harassed and detained. So the government is not in ignorance about what is going on in Iran. The situation of Ahmadreza Djalali is very serious, and our efforts for him continue unabated. Our assessment is that the most urgent thing at the moment is to demand clearly and consistently that the penalty is not enforced. We have repeatedly said this to representatives of Iran. At the same time, it is obvious that the circumstances in which Djalali is held are a serious threat to his health. Therefore, it is urgent that he be allowed to leave immediately the isolation in which he is reportedly being held.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-239	Madam President, I would like The letters to the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and some UN reports state that Ahmadreza Djalali will be released immediately, that his health is in danger and that he is in danger of dying. He may have time to die because of the prison conditions before they kill him. It is very important that Sweden demands the release of him and all political prisoners, and it is good to be able to agree for once with Biden's administration on this point. I have no doubt that both I and the Foreign Minister are very concerned, and we must make demands in terms of economic relations and human rights. Sweden and the outside world stood up for the blacks in South Africa when it was apartheid – it was considered dangerous for both the country's and the outside world's security. It is exactly the same with regard to Iran. Half the population are women living under apartheid. Minorities such as Kurds, Bahai, Balucher and so on are considered second-class citizens. There must be an end to this at some point, and I hope that Sweden will demand that the UN send a delegation to visit women and other political prisoners in prison. It would also be good for Ahmadreza's family to get a clear message.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-243	Madam President, I would like I have been very clear on several occasions in this House in my criticism of Iran and Iranian representatives. Our position is clear. However, our foreign policy aims to make a real difference. It is not realistic to believe that Sweden alone will bring about an improvement in the situation in Iran. It is important to work with others and be long-term. One of the concrete measures taken by the government is to promote concerted action on the part of the EU. We are contributing to joint statements, most recently in connection with the UN Human Rights Council at the beginning of March. We also participate in joint courtings in Tehran, including in support of individual cases and sentenced prisoners. As a further concrete measure and to facilitate dialogue between the EU and Iran on human rights, among other things, Sweden has argued strongly for an EU delegation to be set up in Tehran. As I have mentioned before in this House, the EU is also applying restrictive measures – sanctions, as we say – in relation to serious human rights violations in Iran. Persons responsible for serious violations and related entities may thus be subject to the freezing of funds and economic resources and travel restrictions. The measures also include an embargo on the sale to Iran of equipment which might be used for internal repression or which the Iranian regime intends mainly to use for surveillance or interception. These are examples of concrete measures that we have taken. I can only repeat that our efforts to lift the death penalty against Ahmadreza Djalali and to remove him from the terrible isolation he is in continue.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-249	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me what measures I have taken in view of the deteriorating situation in Georgia given the country's important role in the EU's Eastern Partnership, how I marked Sweden's and the EU's support for the democratic and pro-European forces during my visit to Georgia and how I have acted within the NB8 Group to push for a strong European commitment following the crisis in Georgia. I share Mr Wallmark's view that after the autumn parliamentary elections, the political crisis in Georgia must be taken very seriously. Georgia needs a well-functioning parliament in which the Government Party and the opposition can work together constructively, especially at a time when Georgia is facing both internal and external challenges. Against this background, the Government is closely following the development of internal policies in Georgia. During my last visit to Tbilisi on 16 February, I stressed in all meetings the importance of reducing political polarisation in order to safeguard the democratic progress that the country has made. I stressed the importance of constructive dialogue between the government and the opposition and supported the dialogue process facilitated by the head of the EU delegation and the US ambassador to the country. I also reaffirmed Sweden's continued strong support for Georgia's EU approach. As President of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, I have on two occasions, following the escalation of the political crisis, called on both sides to de-escalate the situation and resume dialogue in line with OSCE principles. Georgia was discussed at the last NB8 meeting in the Foreign Affairs Council on 26 March, where I welcomed the EU's involvement in the political dialogue and underlined the need to address political polarisation. There is a very strong EU commitment in Georgia. Following the autumn parliamentary elections, as I mentioned earlier, the head of the EU delegation in Georgia, together with the US ambassador to the country, has facilitated the dialogue conducted between opposition and government. The President of the European Council, Mr Michel, visited Tbilisi on 1 March and then resumed the dialogue between the parties. He then appointed Christian Danielsson, the head of the European Commission's office in Sweden, as a special envoy and mediator in the dialogue between government and opposition. Danielsson spent a week in Tbilisi on 11 and 19 March in the framework of his mediation mission and returned for a second round of talks on 28 March. During the conciliation, progress was made on many points, but in the end no political party chose to support Danielsson's proposal as a whole. The ultimate responsibility for a solution to political stalemate lies with the parties themselves. The government is very pleased that the EU has taken an active role in the dialogue process between government and opposition. It is our hope that Georgia will continue to make progress in its democratic development and proximity to the European Union. The government will closely monitor developments in the country, encourage the sides to continue dialogue and do what we can to support Georgia at this critical stage.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-257	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Georgia is in many ways an important country for the rest of Europe. I believe that we who remain in this House share that view. It has also undergone an interesting development towards membership of the European Union and towards NATO membership, but it is certainly not there yet. It has carried out major reforms, not least of the police, which have led Georgia in many ways to set an example in the Eastern Partnership. For those who do not know the world map and world politics, I sometimes explain that Georgia lies geographically east of Turkey, but earlier in many values west of the Balkans. That makes Georgia an important country. What is now happening is not quite the picture that I think the Foreign Minister is showing. Perhaps some can be explained by the fact that she is also shouldering the task of chairing the OSCE and then having to be a little more careful when she goes over the pieces of glass. It is not that all parties are equally wrong or equally right, but there are those who are more wrong than others. What has happened in recent years is an increasing deterioration in the democratic status of Georgia. You have to say that. It must also be stated that the elections held in Georgia in 2020 cannot, for many good reasons, be said to have been satisfactory. That is why it is a reasonable requirement to make new, fair and correct democratic elections against Georgia. This was also illustrated by the fact that, when the new Parliament was reopened in Tbilisi in December 2020, only the 90 members of the power party were present. 60 places belonging to the various opposition parties were in protest empty. When an opposition in this way marks empty seats, take it very seriously. Madam President, I would like It is sad that the Foreign Minister does not mention the imprisoned opposition leader, Nika Melia, who is wrongly detained. A country entering our community, a country which has previously been far into the European cultural circle, does not behave so against its opposition as to keep it imprisoned. One does not behave in such a way as to have a counter-reaction that the opposition does not want to take its place once the new Parliament is to be opened up. That is why, Madam President, I have no problem mentioning the name of Nika Melias from the Parliament's pulpit. It should be done. The same applies to Giorgi Rurua, a representative of a free television company, who is also falsely incarcerated. It is therefore important to increase pressure on Georgia. Madam President, I would like I also find it regrettable that the Foreign Minister, when she was visiting Georgia, did not reveal how important it is to involve the opposition by meeting it. It is precisely what is said that Christian Danielsson from Sweden has the EU's mission to try to mediate. Attempts have been made, but no progress has been made. My impression is that it is not the opposition's fault, but the current power. A sitting power that imprisones the opposition's main representative has to prove its legitimacy.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-263	Madam President, I would like Georgia is an important country for the Eastern Partnership. It is important for the inhabitants of Georgia, but it is also important for all of us who believe in a functioning rule of law and who want people to participate in the governance of the country, who want to see free media and a prosperous country near the EU – perhaps even as a member. It is good that the Foreign Minister has visited Georgia as Chairman of the OSCE. It was a good thing that the Foreign Minister had the opportunity to meet the people she met, but I share the view that it would have been useful also to face the opposition – or parts of the opposition if not all could meet at the same time. The political crisis has been going on for quite some time in Georgia. It did not start with the elections, but it escalated after the summer of 2019 when the Georgians saw the Vice-President of the Russian Duma in the Chair of Parliament. This led to strong protests on the streets outside Parliament throughout Tbilisi. The background is known, namely that Russia still occupies large parts of Georgian territory. Of course, you saw what was then about to happen as a major crisis. Many were imprisoned, and many are still in prison. They should, of course, be released. Solutions should be sought. This was done by the current power party Georgian Dream after the conflict in the summer of 2019. Reform of the electoral system was promised. But before last year's election, they had backed back. The reform promised was not implemented. It is, of course, part of the underlying conflict that exists in Georgia and the protests that the opposition has expressed after the elections. This is not the first time we have seen this – but hopefully it is the last, but I doubt if you do not take a different path – that you choose to imprison a leading opposition representative. In this case, Nika Melia is mentioned. It was again an attack on a leading opposition politician. On that basis, you can't get through. There was a proposal from the EU mediator that could have been open to solutions. Here, the EU should put strong pressure on Georgia's leading players to live up to the proposal. When the leadership then says that this was only the opposition's fault, one should respond back and put pressure on the leadership that exists in Tbilisi today. For what we see is that others are now acting. When we have seen how the SVR, the security service of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is now interfering and talking about supporting Ivanis j vili and Georgian Dream in principle, those are warning signals, Madam President. Watch out and take advantage of the situation now, Minister of Foreign Affairs! Don't wait!
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-270	Madam President, I would like Georgia is a priority country for the government, and it is against this background that I have visited the country twice in the last six months. You see it a little differently on the spot compared to sitting in this Chamber. Every meeting I have met with Georgian government representatives, parliamentarians and civil society. I have clearly expressed Sweden's support and expectations for further democratic development. I share Mr Wallmark's view that there is a great deal about the election that could be done better. That is what Odihr said: The election has been conducted on a competitive and efficient way despite the very strong challenges. But you have 30 different recommendations where things have to be done better. So the Odihr does not say that it was a choice that needs to be made again, but it says that there is a wide range of possibilities for improvement. These improvements must, of course, be demanded by the government. It is by no means that I cannot mention the leader of the opposition and your party colleague Nika Melia. It is no problem at all to do so. But what's behind this? Well, the mass protests that broke out in 2019 were due to the presence of a Russian Duma member at a session of the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodox countries in the chair of the President. It contributed to great dissatisfaction with the government. You know that, in connection with the Nordic Council and so on in other parliaments, people are allowed to sit in the chair of the President, but this was not accepted by the opposition. Nika Melia was then accused of having called on and participated in the group violence that took place when the demonstrators, as at the Capitol, tried to force the police ranks around Parliament to enter the building. He was arrested because of this, and Parliament decided that his parliamentary immunity would be waived. He was released on bail and got a anklet, which he then took off during a demonstration. He refused to acknowledge the legitimacy of the judiciary, and he did not bail out. At that time, he was again relieved of parliamentary immunity, and he was arrested on 23 February. I have said both times I have been to Georgia that, so to speak, we must climb down from the trees. Dialogue must be established, and it must be ensured from both sides. Georgian Dream obviously has a special responsibility to show a willingness to compromise and find ways forward because they are in government. I therefore think that this is self-evident, but at the same time both sides must avoid acting as they do when we tighten things that do not lead to ways forward. It is a vision shared by the European Union on the ground and by the United States on the ground. Therefore, we must try to negotiate more in good faith. It is regrettable that no party chose to fully support Christian Danielsson's proposal, because it contained concrete measures and reforms for, among other things, judicial and electoral systems.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-278	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Of course, all the actors, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his interpellation response, must work constructively. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I object to the Minister for Foreign Affairs using about two thirds of his speech to criticise or try to explain why opposition leader Nika Melia is incarcerated. She does this instead of actually attacking the power that has been exercised under the supervision of the oligarch Ivanis j vili, which is also not mentioned in any of the answers. I think that is the problem, because what we are seeing has been a gradual deterioration and a gradual erosion of democracy in Georgia from something rather hopeful and interesting. As Kerstin Lundgren says, Georgia is an important country for the EU and the Eastern Partnership. Madam President, I would like Why do we care about this at all? Georgia is still quite far away. Well, we do it because we as Swedes stand up for human rights. We do not like the idea that opposition leaders are going to prison, although it can be explained by various forms of administrative action and that one has taken off an anklet power has put on one. We disapprove of the idea of what we see in the world around us of democracies being eroded by those who have taken power and in various ways denying the opposition its ability to operate. The Foreign Minister is right on one point: Nika Melia and his party UNM are close to the Moderates. I do not want to argue that this is the primary reason for the commitment and to some extent the anger, but it is about the principled: one does not do that in a democracy. This is what is so incredibly important from a Swedish and a European perspective. It is about getting countries like Georgia, which want nothing more than to become members of the European Union and NATO in the long term, to become stable partners and allies. Then what is now taking place is step by step in the wrong direction. As Kerstin Lundgren pointed out, we shall also see what is now happening in Georgia as part of the broader sign, namely the frictions that exist in more countries in our neighbourhood in which Russia and the People's Republic of China are interfering. That is why it is also crucial that a country such as Sweden, within communities such as the EU and the OSSE, should try to prevent this type of manipulation and exploitation. That is why I think it is perfectly reasonable for parties to come together. Nevertheless, I would probably use two thirds of my speaking time to point out that the power of Tbilisi – those currently sitting in the 90 mandates of the Georgian Parliament and ultimately governed by the oligarch Ivanis j vili – has a greater responsibility for trying to heal and heal. Having said that, I naturally also wish the Foreign Minister, in her capacity as Chairman of the OSCE, well with Christian Danielsson. But if this is to be successful, it is a matter of emphasising not only everyone's responsibility for constructiveness but ultimately that of the present power and that it must show decency in Georgia. Georgia needs a European family.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-287	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I was a little surprised when I heard the Foreign Minister touch on the events in Tbilisi in the summer of 2019. I do not know how many months, or perhaps years, I have spent in Georgia during the time I, as rapporteur, have followed developments in Georgia. I have talked with civil society, the media and legal systems, but also with the various political representatives. What happened in the summer of 2019 was something quite exceptional. In a country occupied by Russia, people experienced that the chair of the European Parliament was occupied by the Vice-President of the Russian Duma, Gavrilov. People got out of the house. The protests were huge; I was there and saw it. I talked to those who had been around all night trying, so to speak, to make sure what was happening. The abuse that was used forced the demand for the sitting rule to do something. Georgian Dream then said to change the electoral system. That was a promise. It was said that you should have punished those who used violence. That was a promise. People saw who was imprisoned; they were the ones standing up for their land against what was happening. Many of those who used violence were not punished. The electoral system was not changed as promised. This picture must be made clear to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because otherwise she will go along with Ivanisjvili's affairs.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-291	Madam President, I would like No one should doubt that we know what Russia has done with Georgia. As an international secretary of the Social Democrats, I also visited Georgia several times, especially with my European party. Of course, there are different views on the future of Georgia. Changes in the elections were promised, and the ODIHR report says that there have also been improvements – among other things, more parties have come in. Having said that, however, there is a great deal more for the Government of Georgia to do to bring about further reforms, to democratise, to have a sensible relationship with the opposition and to respect everyone's ability to conduct election campaigns and political activities between the elections. There is no difference whatsoever in view of this. However, it is very important that we have a greater perspective on democratic development and see the stable democratic institutions in Georgia as important for the resilience of society to external threats. Nor is there anyone who does not see how Georgia has been affected by the war between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Georgia is in an extremely difficult situation. That is why, I would like to take this opportunity to say, we are also trying to get cooperation between Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan so that they are not pushed aside in the settlements between Turkey and Russia. I also believe that this is positive in order to put greater pressure on reform, which Georgia needs. One should also know that Sweden is one of the largest individual bilateral donors to the country. There, reform support for democratic development in Georgia is one of the absolute main tasks, and our Embassy in Tbilisi is working very much on this. Another thing that I think is important to say is that we believe that the EU's Eastern Partnership, which includes Georgia, is a key issue in order to achieve a more democratic, equal and well-functioning governance of society in Georgia. That is why we are working very hard on this and we also hope that there will be a summit in which Georgia can participate fully. I still choose to be more positive. With what Christian Danielsson is doing and the energy that the European Union is now showing, both from the Council and from the Commission, I believe there is light in the darkness that is currently over Georgia.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-298	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In addition to the political and parliamentary darkness that has gradually sunk over Georgia following the events reported in 2019, there is every reason to recall that approximately one third of its territory is in practice under occupation. South Ossetia and Abkhazia, where there are Russian troops, we call breakaway republics, but they are nothing but controlled areas of Russia. That is also why, and in the light of all this, we must see the strong commitment of the outside world, Sweden and the European Union to Georgia. I think it is important that the Georgian public now does not get the impression that the EU and very friendly countries like Sweden are not taking this seriously and that we are betraying them. This would cause the force against European integration, against the European Union and against NATO to crumble because we do not meet our expectations. That is why I have a few calls for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Christian Danielsson, who is negotiating on behalf of the EU, and for the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE. There are conditions that must be met. In a democracy you cannot have the leader of the opposition locked up on dubious grounds. I also believe that it is reasonable to have a road map towards free, transparent and democratic elections where parties can operate on reasonable terms. When these two conditions are met, I believe that there are the conditions for Georgia to take the right path instead of the wrong path that the country is on. The ruling party is called Georgian Dream; this is heading for a Georgian nightmare.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-302	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mr Wallmark addresses South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which I myself have visited several times, most recently only a few months ago. It is important to point out in this House that our line is that Russia's aggressive action against Georgia, which began in 2008, and which has continued, and the Russian military presence in both breakaway regions are contrary to international law. Our line is fixed. This challenges the European security regime. There are major human rights shortcomings in the breakaway regions. It is also totally unacceptable that the so-called administrative line, ABL, should go right through gardens, so that families on different sides cannot meet each other. I met the teacher in the village we last visited, a few months ago, who talked about teaching children who have school on one side of the barbed wire and Grandma and Grandpa on the other side of the barbed wire. They have not been able to meet since 2008. It is an everyday life that is terrible, and this is something that we must try to solve. It is of the utmost importance, Madam President, that political polarisation in Georgia should be reduced. It was good to take a step forward to improve the elections, as the Odihr wrote in his report, but there is a great deal left to do. There are over 30 recommendations to improve the elections. For the next elections, I very much hope that the government will take this seriously and for the country in a better direction for the people's best interests. Sweden will be a reliable partner.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-305	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked me whether I am prepared to call for the sanctions against Belarus to be broadened in order to meet more clearly those directly responsible for the illegal elections and the violence against peaceful protests that affect the belarus people on a daily basis, if I am prepared to demand that the EU's Magnitsky rule be broadened in order to meet systematic corruption and money laundering and what measures I believe can be taken to increase the pressure on the regime to release political prisoners. The falsified elections and the brutal abuse committed by the Belarus regime are unacceptable. I am following developments in the country closely and note with great concern the continuing serious violations of human rights. The government continues to condemn arbitrary and politically motivated detentions in Belarus. We will continue to demand the release of political prisoners. All persons who were arbitrarily detained in connection with the presidential elections and subsequent protests must be released immediately and unconditionally. Politically motivated prosecutions must be closed. The government has also pursued a consistent policy of EU unity and principle. For three rounds, the EU has imposed targeted sanctions on a total of 84 individuals and 7 companies. Most recently at the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 February, the EU expressed its readiness to continue extending sanctions against Belarus. I believe that developments in the country justify such an extension. With regard to the EU's global sanctions regime against serious human rights violations and abuses, sometimes referred to as Magnitsky sanctions, the EU has chosen to focus precisely on human rights, and there is a strength in this. The sanctions regime enables the EU to act against serious violations and abuse of human rights, wherever in the world they are committed. Firstly, it provides a completely new opportunity for the EU to act sharply against such acts. It has been a long and difficult negotiation to agree on the design of this sanction regime. It took over two years to create a consensus. The focus should now be on the application and implementation of the sanctions regime in its current form and on designing listings, rather than extending the scope of the sanctions regime. The EU already has a special sanction regime for Belarus that allows for the listing of people and companies benefiting from or supporting the regime. The continuing violations and abuses in Belarus make it more important to react as quickly as the EU decision-making process allows with new sanctions listings than to start discussions on the application of a new sanction regime. At the same time, our action against Belarus must not lead to the isolation of the country's population. Sanctions must be combined with other tools such as diplomatic action, calls for dialogue for a long-term solution to the crisis and support for civil society and the media. The European Council has instructed the Commission to develop a long-term financial support plan for a future democratic Belarus. This plan is intended to send a clear signal to the belarusian society that the EU is ready to support democratic reforms in Belarus and thus call for positive steps. Only a peaceful and democratic process supported by a strong civil society and monitored by independent and free media provides sustainable solutions to the current situation in Belarus. As early as last autumn, together with the previous Albanian OSCE Presidency, we offered to assist Belarus in facilitating a genuine dialogue between the government and the opposition in order to find a way out of the current crisis. We have not yet received an official response to this offer.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. This interpellation was asked, Madam President, about a month ago. It was set with the perspective of trying to signal to the government to act, to act alone and together in the EU, ahead of Freedom Day on 25 March. The Foreign Affairs Council met on Monday 22 March, I think it was, and the European Council had its meeting, which became digital, on 25 March, precisely the day when people sought to celebrate the brief moment of freedom that the Belaris have experienced. Freedom Day is a great day for many in Belarus. This time 200 of those who ventured out after almost eight months of harassment, oppression, imprisonment and general provocation from Omonpolis and others were imprisoned so that Lukasjenko could continue his journey and remain in the presidential palace, where he still lives. Madam President, I would like When you look at the EU list you will find people who have been listed since 2004. And it is a long journey that we have made to try to reverse the development of our neighboring country of Belarus, but we have so far failed. It is regrettable, Madam President, that we are still seeing 299– that is the latest figure I have seen – political prisoners and 400 journalists have been arrested, of which 11 are now in prison. We see how we are now attacking and trying to arrest minorities, most recently a Polish minority, as a threat to Lukasjenko. Maria Kolesnikova, who remained behind and did not allow herself to be deported, has been in prison for a long time. She is one of the courageous women leaders of the opposition to Lukasjenko. Madam President, I would like It is now important that the EU keeps and is effective in its work. Among other things, it is a matter of being clear with reinforced sanctions. Brave women in their 65's and 75's dared to read belarusian writers on the commuter train. Some of them were arrested, one of which was imprisoned. It is not reasonable for such things to happen without increasing pressure. One way of increasing pressure would also be to raise the issue and demand that the Magnitsky list should also be subject to systematic corruption and money laundering, because if there is anything that fattens the systems, it is precisely corruption, Madam President. If something is the bloodstream of the oppressors in the systems, it is corruption. I hope that a possible interest in corruption in the EU would not prevent the EU from acting here. That is why my question is: is the Minister prepared to press for the demand to meet also those who engage in systematic corruption?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-320	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State! The sad side effect of being a foreign minister is surely to meet parliamentarians who take up one source of conflict and the other sad example after another. It is rarely that we can come up with cheerful things. We have just discussed Georgia, where much indicates that it is going in the wrong direction, in Belarus even more. If Georgia is close to us in terms of valuation, it is far away geographically. Now, Madam President, we are talking about Belarus. Now we're just home. This is in the immediate vicinity. There were so many Swedes, so many political representatives including the undersigned and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who rejoiced at the desire for freedom that was made visible on the streets of Minsk – the red, the white, the hopeful and the happy – and, not least, the many women who were at the forefront of the fight for righteousness in Belarus. But month has been added to month, and everything has become smoother, duller, darker and more brutal with abuse, rape and persecution. People are forced into exile or go into voluntary exile. I started a little rough about saying that a foreign minister has very hard ahead of him but, hold on now, Ann Linde should have the praise. It is during her time that the Foreign Minister we have got the Magnitsky legislation in place in Europe. I can see a change of attitude from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Foreign Minister Linde's advantage. That's good. Let me also underline what I have done to Kerstin Lundgren a number of times: I believe that the government should prepare itself for the fact that in the further processes there is probably a majority for what Kerstin Lundgren is after, which is adding to the regulatory framework of the European Magnitsky legislation the extensive corruption and money laundering. Kerstin Lundgren's description is appropriate. This is the bloodstream in the veins of oppressors, and this may be needed as the next step. I think it is crucial that elections can be held in Belarus during the year. What assessment does the Foreign Minister make? Can we get the political processes in Belarus to land in it? It is good if we can send a message to all those freedom fighters who have almost been planed down by Lukasjenko and his killer machines and can offer something that is hopeful. The idea of free and transparent elections would be such a thing. I also wonder how we can help and assist in various ways those belarusian groups that have had to regroup voluntarily or involuntarily. They are mainly in Lithuania, but they are also in Poland. I know that the Lithuanian Government sees how to give the exiles some piety of diplomatic status and weigh up their presence in Vilnius. I believe that it is an essential symbol to show that we are on the side of the oppressed and not on the side of the oppressor, Lukasjenko. Belarus and Venezuela have a great similarity here, and that is that time is the dictator's best ally.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation. It is important to address the situation in Belarus in the Swedish Parliament all the time. March 25 is an important date in Belarus' history, for then the opposition has held peaceful manifestations. In the face of this year's manifestation, they tried to gather together and get more people to go out, but the opposition met with harassment and arrests. On 21 March, Ihar Barysau, who is the chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Hormada, was detained. I last met him in Minsk at the end of 2019, and I have been talking to him continuously on the phone since everything happened. He was one of the few people who submitted an official request for a demonstration permit for 25 March. He became another one in the line that was imprisoned. He was in his car with his four-year-old daughter and his wife. He was released yesterday, and Inger Näslund, who is the Belarus administrator at the Palme Centre, has translated the long interview with him about what happened. I'll read some of it out: Once I've been convicted, I'll be transferred to another building. There they have their own method. They're all exposed to chlorine poisoning. Every morning they throw away all the stuff, pour a bucket of bleach over the floor and leave immediately. A guy who's been sitting a long time said this happens every day. You should breathe quickly through a cloth or t-shirt. Everybody's got a headache. It is simply unbearable. The speakers are constantly playing Listen to the little father and the whole agricultural law so that the head cracks. You get to sleep with the light lit, and there are constant nocturnal calls, sometimes several times. The psychological and physical pressure is constant. It's torture. Anyone who wants to can read this long and very detailed interview on this in a way appallingly everyday situation for all the thousands of politicians, human rights defenders and women who have been deprived of their freedom because they are demanding a democratic Belarus. It's terrible. I can certainly come back in more detail to the sanctions in the next reply. However, it is important to say that the specific sanctions for Belarus do not apply to the MR-sanction regime, but to a special regime that has existed for a long time and is broader. This regime allows listing people who benefit from or support the Lukashenko government. The freezing of companies and important businessmen close to the regime is a serious tightening up of sanctions and sends a strong political signal to the regime that it must change its behaviour.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-338	Madam President, I would like I see that there is a clear commitment to the people of Belarus, the courageous who, month after month in time, peacefully stood up to the violence of the regime. It inspires strong sympathies among everyone in Sweden to see how they act. It has been a source of inspiration for people close to Belarus, in Russia, for example, who see that this is a way of acting. Repression is increasing, and its rawness has become increasingly visible. Some, however, are not visible, and we hear about this in many stories. Although I am not involved in reading the texts of party representatives, I have heard and seen such things. It is important that we act and do so together. It is also a question of showing our Baltic neighbours strong support, not least Lithuania. Lithuania is close to Belarus and Russia, yet it is courageous and stands up for freedom and people's demands for democracy. The fact that the Lukashenko regime is demanding that Svetlana Tikhanovskaya be extradited is astounding, and of course we shall stand up for the protection of her and secure her ability to operate. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister says there is a willingness to extend the sanctions. Is it the Foreign Minister's request for future Foreign Affairs Councils that the issue be raised and ready? Since its last reading, on 22 February, further developments have taken place. As I understand it, there is a small window this spring. Even in Belarus we hope for a spring, and we hope that spring will provide an opportunity to advance the positions, not for Lukasjenko, but for the people who have fought for their voice to be heard and counted. They want freedom, democracy and Belarus for themselves. They need our support, and then you have to show that you tag up and also meet with sanctioning regimes. As for the entourage that Lukasjenko surrounds himself with, there are still things to do. This also applies to large companies, not least in the potash industry, which is large and provides large revenues for the state. Belaruskal i j is one of the companies that should be the focus of further sanctions. I hope that the Foreign Minister is prepared to make further preparations for future Foreign Affairs Councils so that they do not end up in a situation where there is no preparation or inclusion on the agenda, because that is the response we usually get when we demand more at Foreign Affairs Council meetings.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-346	Madam President, I would like Like the previous Members, I believe that all of us in this House are red and white on these issues. I cannot find anyone in the Swedish parliament who does not take sides with the freedom fighters of the Belarus resistance. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Social Democrats close to the Palme Centre and the Moderates close to the Jarl Hjalmarson Foundation have worked closely for many years, paying attention to various forms of prisoners of conscience and political persecution. That is why it is right for the Foreign Minister to quote from a prisoner's description of his existence. And, Madam President, anyone who knows his story recognizes it. So have murdering regimes and dictatorships appeared for decades, whether it was fascist coup d'état leaders or communist oppression. This is what makes it extremely important that we stand side by side and that the EU is able to push forward so as not to crack the outstretched red-white rose that comes from Belarus. I would like to repeat my questions, namely: can we achieve this and hope that it is possible to organise fair and fair elections which confirm that it is the supporters of democracy who basically have the confidence of the belarus people and not Lukasjenko? And: Can we do more to strengthen and pay attention to the position of freedom fighters outside Belarus, such as those in Lithuania and Poland, by strengthening their diplomatic status? I share Kerstin Lundgren's assessment that the Baltic countries, especially Lithuania, have been the driving force here. I am pleased that my party friend Gabrielius Landsbergis can work with the Swedish Foreign Minister on these issues.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-350	Madam President, I would like I really share Hans Wallmark's view that it is great that his party friend Gabrielius Landsbergis, with whom I have a very good relationship, continues the fantastic work that Linas's Linkevičius and his social democrats have done for nine years in relation to Belarus, which he has now received one of the highest MR prices available for. I am very pleased that your parties are continuing to do this in Lithuania. We continue to pursue a consistent policy in the EU and the OSSE for democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Belarus. As Members are aware, we have worked actively to get out of the locks that existed and that are to some extent in terms of having restrictive measures, that is, sanctions, against Belarus. We received – far too late, but still – the first package of sanctions against those responsible in Belarus. We have addressed this to each Foreign Affairs Council since the beginning of the situation, and in February the Foreign Ministers agreed to consider further sanctions. So it is a line that we have. The EU, like Sweden, supports the legitimate demands of the Belarus people for democracy and support for civil society. Mr Wallmark asked whether there is a chance to achieve what we are demanding, namely to elect leaders in free and democratic elections. I can't answer that question now. We in the OSSE have offered to facilitate a genuine dialogue between the regime and the opposition, which would lead, among other things, to free elections. The regime has said that you should have constitutional changes that have been made way back and that you come back to all the time, but there will be nothing of it. When you really figure out what it's supposed to look like and what it's going to be, it hasn't turned out anything, even though you've said it. I think I would be a little too optimistic if I said that it will probably be, but I am not ruling it out. We have said that we are prepared to participate in and facilitate such dialogue and do all we can. And we are doing everything we can now to make this a reality.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-354	Madam President, I would like I hope that when we meet on 25 March next year, the Belaris will be allowed to go out on the streets and celebrate their freedom. I hope that Europe will then be seen as part of the solution and not as part of the problem. It is a question of the European Union having the courage to do more than consider worrying. I think it must come to extended sanctions, which must hit corruption and Lukasjenko entourage. This should be made clear. Russia has a Duma election in September. It is important to act before then to get there. Local elections will be held in Belarus by 18 January 2022, I think. We are talking about coordinating a constitutional referendum. Let us not end up in a Russian solution, as Putin did when he gave himself eternal presidential power. Europe must act under the window that we have now, until the summer in principle. It is good if we can facilitate dialogue if we show that dialogue is really meaningful and that we can bring it with the opposition's clear presence and not with Lukasjenko election of opposition. Political prisoners must, of course, be free. It is not reasonable to demand dialogue with those in prison. Mr Lukasjenko has got a nice picture of this, but it is not a path if you want to accept dialogue, Madam President. This type of photo opportunity must not be supported by the EU or Sweden.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-357	Madam President, I would like The government has made democracy one of its main priorities during this term of office. The falsified elections and the brutal abuse committed by the Belarus regime are unacceptable. As Chairman of the OSSE in 2021, Sweden continues to work to ensure that all participating states, including Belarus, will live up to our common commitments and principles. The OSSE makes a clear link between respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law and security within and between states. Following reports of serious violations of human rights in the presidential elections, 17 OSSE participating states activated the so-called Moscow mechanism to have an expert commission look into the situation. This committee of experts appointed presented a report stating that there are serious shortcomings in the conduct of the presidential elections and that the elections did not meet established standards. It pointed out serious violations of human rights and that Belarus has failed to comply with its international obligations, including OSCE commitments. 88 recommendations were made in the report to Belarus, OSCE participating states and the international community. Sweden welcomes this. We now have a dialogue on how to follow this up, and we will continue to stand up for human rights, democracy and the rule of law within the OSSE, in Belarus and in the world.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-361	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me whether I agree with the Prime Minister's statement that EU security and defence cooperation could risk threatening other countries and, if so, which countries. Pål Jonson has also asked me how I want the EU to work to reduce tensions in Europe's neighbourhood, and whether the EU should have a different role from NATO. Pål Jonson has also asked whether I agree with the Prime Minister's statement that the objective must be common security in a global perspective and, if so, what this means. Finally, Pål Jonsson has asked whether I believe that the EU should develop strategic autonomy within the EU's security and defence policy. The government's position is clear: against peace and our security is best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries. The EU is our most important foreign and security policy platform. A strong EU that contributes to security in our part of the world and globally also strengthens Sweden's security. The Government affirms its efforts to strengthen the overall European defence capability and to strengthen the EU's capacity to act. The starting point is that, in the light of the current global situation, Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security in a way that strengthens both the EU and its Member States, while promoting cooperation with strategic partners. As the Prime Minister has said and I myself have said many times, including in this House, the EU needs, for example, to be able to cooperate with the UN, NATO and the United States. Similarly, the government welcomes the development of EU cooperation with European partners such as Norway and the UK. The transatlantic link is crucial to Europe's security. The government therefore stresses that EU security and defence cooperation should be designed in such a way that European and transatlantic cooperation is mutually reinforcing. EU cooperation is a community of solidarity, but unlike NATO it is not a military alliance with mutual defence obligations. At the same time, as noted in the government's total defence bill, it is clear that no European state alone can meet all the serious and complex security policy challenges of today, or have a positive impact as a global player. Strengthening the EU's capacity to act as a security policy actor and thus the Union's ability to take responsibility for its own security and security in its neighbourhood is crucial. Let me also emphasise that strengthening security and defence policy cooperation within the EU is not in contradiction with other multilateral, regional and bilateral cooperation. The government continues to stress that the use of the concept of strategic autonomy should not be interpreted as the fact that the EU is now joining the rest of the world. The concept of strategic autonomy has no intrinsic value in itself. The focus needs to be on achieving balanced and effective measures that contribute to strengthening the EU as a global foreign and security policy actor, increasing competitiveness and reducing vulnerabilities. In the area of security and defence policy, this means that we need to act together to increase the EU's capacity for action while strengthening cooperation with partners. The government also underlines that it is of the utmost importance that the EU does not fall into protectionism. The development of innovative and cost-effective products at the cutting edge of technology – essential for Europe and its Member States to face current and future threats – requires global supply chains.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-368	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a long and comprehensive answer. It contained quite a few well-known positions linked to the government's view of foreign, security and defence policy. Many of them we have a broad political consensus on in this House. But it was not entirely an answer to the very explicit questions I asked in my interpellation. I raised two clear questions linked to the Prime Minister's statement on the EU's strategic autonomy. Among other things, he has said that the EU must not build up a military capability that is becoming threatening. He has also said that the goal of the EU should be common security in a global context. I wonder very much what the Prime Minister really means by these statements. I did not hear in the very broad answer that reference is made to the concept of common security, nor to the Prime Minister's argument that the EU's military capabilities could threaten other countries. Basically, of course, a government and a prime minister cannot have two different positions. But I look forward to the Foreign Minister clarifying and guiding me here. Madam President, I would like Ever since the EU presented its global strategy in 2016, the concept of strategic autonomy has flourished. It has grown in strength and scope after the British left the EU. Basically, it is a question of making the EU more independent and autonomous in relation to other international partners. It is clear that the closest one to international partnership today is the United States in particular. I believe that it is fundamentally in everyone's interest that the EU has better military capabilities to take greater political and military responsibility for security in and around Europe. But I also think that we need to think carefully about the implications and the long-term consequences of strategic autonomy. Above all, we must not land in a situation where the EU's ambitions would in any way threaten or duplicate the role of NATO, nor threaten the very important defence policy cooperation across the Atlantic. Nevertheless, NATO and the transatlantic link are irreplaceable in the field of defence policy and are likely to be so for the foreseeable future, because the European countries do not have the necessary military capability and a strong war-responsive capacity vis-à-vis Russia. I dare to say that NATO's role in the security of both Europe and Sweden is now more important than it has ever been after the end of the Cold War. I believe that is a fact that will continue. Another important thing is that we urgently need more and not less transatlantic cooperation to tackle global challenges. It is, of course, about tackling climate change and facing threats to free trade, but also about standing up to authoritarian and aggressive states such as Russia and China. The world simply tends to improve when Europe and North America work together. Madam President, I would like I have no need to notice words, misinterpret or misinterpret anyone. But I listen very carefully when the Prime Minister talks about foreign and security policy. Such statements require a high degree of precision. In Ekot on 26 February, when he commented on strategic autonomy, the Prime Minister said that we must not in our zeal create such a strong defence that builds up a situation that becomes more threatening. I find it difficult to see that the EU would in some way threaten other countries. I think that those working on military issues usually land in the view that the problem with the EU is not that it is too strong in the military field but too weak. That is why I would like clarification from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What does the Prime Minister mean when he is concerned about the EU building a military capability?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-377	Madam President, I would like I believe that Pål Jonson understands that I will not be standing in this House's pulpit and interpreting what the Prime Minister says. There is a security policy in the government, and of course both I and the Prime Minister express it. It is about security being built together with others. Our policy is based on shared responsibility, commitment and solidarity. The emphasis on common security means deepening our cooperation, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Our foreign and security policy rests on the cohesion of the EU and cooperation on a broad front. As far as the EU is concerned – NATO cooperation is concerned, the government is in favour of deepening the EU – NATO cooperation. I can also tell you that, just a week ago, or possibly two weeks ago, I and the Finnish Foreign Minister were invited to the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting with the EU High Representative to participate in NATO's Russia discussion, which shows precisely that they wish for such enhanced cooperation. We work together on a variety of issues. It is about operational cooperation in the field and joint exercises but also hybrid threats and other things. When we say that we have a common security, it also means that we want to strengthen defence and security policy cooperation in the EU but also underline the transatlantic link. I guess I can tell Pål Jonson that there's not a clear definition of what strategic autonomy is. We have discussed it in various rounds with the EU's foreign ministers. It is a favorite topic of discussion in political think tanks. I myself have been invited and I can see that different countries have different views. For example, our view does not always coincide with France's view of what strategic autonomy is. For us, it is important to say that we want strategic autonomy to be with partners whenever possible, on our own if necessary. I think that is a very good summary of how we view Europe's strategic autonomy.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-382	Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot give me guidance on how to interpret the Prime Minister when he makes a statement in the Ekot that a strong EU could militaryly threaten other countries, then I really do not know who should guide me. Let us take the concept of common security. After all, that is what the Prime Minister referred to in the European Council's re-report – that the EU should work towards détente and common security in a global perspective. The Foreign Minister was certainly aware of what is being put into the concept of common security, but when the Prime Minister talks about de-stress, I assume that it is de-stress in relation to the relationship with Russia. We both know where the concept of common security comes from historically. This, of course, comes from the Palme Commission in 1982. At that time, it was a lot about re-establishing nuclear-free zones, nuclear disarmament and conventional disarmament and troop withdrawals. It was also strongly influenced by Willy Brandt, then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who talked about Ostpolitik and so on. We can certainly disagree if this was a good idea then. However, when we talk about common security today, I would like a little better guidance on how the government discusses it. We have not previously had a dividing line in this House with regard to Russia policy. I assume we still have a consensus on that. It should be based on the five fundamental principles that the EU has in its common Russia policy. It is about standing up for human rights, condemning the crimes of international law and the illegal annexation of Crimea and maintaining sanctions. I sometimes hear other political actors in the EU talking a lot about common security with Russia. In fact, I am thinking primarily of President Macron, who has said, time after time, that now is the time for a restart in relations with Russia. There is talk of perhaps loosening up sanctioning regimes and other things. I do not think this would be a wise policy to pursue. It would send a signal to Russia that the EU is now backing home. Basically, this is about Russia having to be judged, just like all other countries, for its international action. International action leaves much to be desired, Madam President. The latest in the line is the treatment of Aleksej Navalnyj, but we now also see alarming troop movements along the border with Ukraine. Time and again, Russia has proved inclined to challenge international law and invade and occupy other countries. That is totally unacceptable. Let me again ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: when the government talks about common security in a global context and that it is a role for the EU, does it have nothing to do with global security in the way they talked about 20-30 years ago? I think that would be completely out of place in relation to the security policy challenges facing Europe today.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-390	Madam President, I would like When we talk about common security, we mean to deepen our cooperation, both multilaterally and bilaterally, with all the organisations and countries with which we cooperate – within the EU, with Norway, in the Baltic Sea region, within the UN, within the Council of Europe, within the OSSE and with NATO. We have great bilateral cooperation with both the United Kingdom and the United States, but it is with Finland that is the most important thing. As far as Russia is concerned, it is not the case that we have a different approach there. I have been a minister for almost five years and have had it up here at various EU ministerial meetings and foreign ministers' meetings, and I can welcome Pål Jonson because I have rarely experienced that we have been so united. I'd say the crack that Pål Jonson more than suggests, it's not there anymore. This is because, among other things, there was such a huge consensus following Borrell's visit to Moscow, when the EU joined in saying that we must adhere to the five principles – which are about being clear about continuing sanctions in connection with the annexation of Crimea and aggression in eastern Ukraine – but also engage in dialogue on, for example, the environment and climate and health. Common security also includes a major element of disarmament. That is why we are now working very much on nuclear disarmament within, for example, the Stockholm initiative ahead of the NPT conference, because common security also means that we want to reduce and eventually completely eliminate the use of nuclear weapons in the world.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-393	Madam President, I would like Mr Borrell's trip to Moscow should have poured cold water on all aspirations for those who thought Russia had some serious interest in reengaging in a strategic partnership with the EU. Nor do I find any reason to reward the very serious Russian action that we see these days, not least on the ground in Ukraine. But, Madam President, after criticising two of which I thought unclear positions from the Prime Minister, I will give him one point: we need to have a well-informed debate in Sweden on the role of the European Union in the world, but also on the concept of strategic autonomy. We are in a situation of increased power confrontation. It increases in both strength and extent. We are going through a pandemic that is probably the biggest crisis we have experienced since the Second World War, politically, socially and economically. Unfortunately, we have also seen the renationalisation of parts of EU cooperation during the pandemic. I am concerned about both how the outside world should view Europe because of this and how it affects long-term cohesion within the EU. When we discuss strategic autonomy, we need to put the problems at the centre. In my opinion, the problem for the EU is not that it is not sufficiently autonomous, independent or independent. The problem is that the EU is not sufficiently resourceful and that there is not enough common political will. Now it's a strategic compass. It creates a lot of opportunities for the government to push ahead. The Foreign Minister knows that one of the baskets in the strategic compass is partnership. It would be excellent if the government could take initiatives to invite the United Kingdom, the United States and Norway to strategic dialogues but also give them the opportunity to participate in the framework of Pesco projects. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the debate.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson, for raising this important issue for discussion! The international dimension of our security is becoming increasingly important. Sweden strives for common security and wants to build security in joint and several cooperation with others. It is fundamental that threats to peace and security are best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries and organisations. The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. In response to this development, the government is carrying out a historic investment in total defence, while at the same time deepening our international security and defence cooperation. The EU is our most important foreign and security policy platform. Swedish membership of the European Union has strengthened both our prosperity and our security. At the same time, we cannot take this cooperation for granted. It is in Sweden's interest to be a credible, reliable and supportive partner. The international situation underlines the need for European cooperation as it is clear that no Member State has the ability or the resources to respond to all complex threats and challenges on its own. Strengthening the EU's capacity to act as a security policy actor and thus the Union's ability to take responsibility for its own security and security in its neighbourhood is crucial. It is also important that cooperation should continue to be designed in such a way that European and transatlantic cooperation can be mutually reinforcing.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-403	Madam President, I would like Jessica Thunander has asked me three questions about the right to travel. The national objective of disability policy is to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation of people with disabilities in society. The service contributes to the objective by providing the possibility of specially organised transport for persons with disabilities. According to the Transport Services Act, driving permits must be granted to those who, due to their disability, have difficulties in moving on their own or in travelling by public transport. The Transport Services Act clearly states that each municipality or region is responsible for providing good quality transport services. The Transport Services Act entered into force in 1998 and is a framework law. This means that municipalities and regions, with the proximity to citizens that it entails, have the responsibility and the ability to manage and determine the conditions that apply to the local transport service. The reports that are now emerging that people with obvious disabilities are denied permission to travel services raise questions about the application of the Transport Services Act. I will follow this matter closely.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-407	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure Eneroth, for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister seems to see the problem that the transport service is not working properly throughout the country and does not come to all those who need it. However, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer that the government will follow this issue closely. The fact that the travel service in many places does not function properly is not a new problem. I assume that not only this government, but also previous governments, including alliance governments, have been aware of that. Watching when something is not working and simply noting that it is not working is simply not enough. Travel services shall be a right for persons who have significant difficulties in moving on their own or in travelling by public transport – a right to move freely like non-disabled persons. However, the law in force since 1998 has made the rules on who is entitled to travel service much stricter, and the interpretation leaves some other things to be desired. Nowadays, the transport service is a traffic policy measure rather than a right for people with disabilities to have the freedom to move around in society and to travel to and from a job and have meaningful leisure time. Because the law means that transport services are seen as a form of traffic, not as a form of assistance, problems arise with the assessments. As a result, a person who is physically able to move, at least helpful, but cannot, for example, see and thus cannot move in unknown environments without danger is often denied travel service. It is assumed that the person can use public transport and can therefore also orient themselves at stations and bus stops without seeing. Older people who have difficulty in moving and who have severe dizziness and therefore find it difficult to use public transport without danger to themselves are also rejected. According to Trafikanalys, the number of permits to travel has decreased by 25 per cent since the Act on Transport Services entered into force in 1998. This is true despite population growth and an increasing proportion of older people. It is clear that today we have reached an absolute minimum level, which excludes many who need travel services from that right. The problems are increasing and prevent people from living freely, studying and having active leisure time, although this should be a right for everyone. The Minister refers to the fact that municipalities and regions are responsible for providing good quality transport services and that the Transport Services Act is a framework law. That is, of course, quite right. There are municipalities and regions that are not doing this well. At the same time, for example, the public transport administration in Dalarna in an element of Swedish Radio says that the problem is not their handling but a mistake in the law and that they only follow it. One might think that this is an excuse, but if there are such loopholes in legislation, perhaps the law should be reviewed. It is, of course, true that current legislation places responsibility and management on regions and municipalities – regions and municipalities that are often poor in economics and that are increasingly responsible, which have previously been state-owned, while at the same time reducing resources. But the legislation itself is the responsibility of the government and the parliament, and the government can propose changes if it wishes. Does the Minister consider that the current basis for travel authorisation, which is a traffic policy measure rather than a right, is in line with the disability policy objectives? How else does the Minister intend to ensure that the assessment of who is entitled to a permit is based on the perspective of rights and disability policy objectives and not on transport policy objectives?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander, for your commitment! I value it very much. This is an incredibly important issue. The transportation service is very important to many people in our society. It is about ensuring good accessibility and about people being able to get to work, leisure activities or other things. Although we are now going to discuss problems and challenges in the transport service, I think it is good for many people to know that the latest quality survey on travel and medical travel shows that 92% of passengers and passengers are satisfied with orders and travel. They are satisfied with orders and with the driver's response. And 96 percent of the travelers arrived on time. Don't let that be an argument for not looking at improvements! That's not what I'm talking about. But I think this is an important signal to all those who are working to organize the transport service, to all drivers and to others who are doing a great job. Having said that, I can say: there is no doubt that in the state inquiry that I set up there was a desire for greater coordination to facilitate for the individual. But it was also clear that, with the rules we have today, with local self-government, there were no conditions for making the mandatory coordination that might be desirable. As long as we do not bring back the entire work and regulation at municipal level or nationalise the entire business, it is clear that we have a rather big challenge ahead of us. What is worrying, above all, is application, and that is what I am aiming for in the answer. In recent years we have noticed that there is an increasingly nifty application of municipalities, moderate-led municipalities, that want to save money. Or perhaps it is said that this does not fall within the scope of the legislation, and this is not being tried legally. I think that's serious. But I do not want to go the way that we risk going with what Jessica Thunander might advocate. Then we would move from a framework law, which gives room for manoeuvre, to more detailed legislation. We have seen in other policy areas how difficult it is to anticipate every single detail. It will be difficult to meet the needs of people who want to use the service in a flexible manner. I will, of course, follow developments closely. If it turns out that there are more municipalities and regions that systematically challenge the regulatory framework and that court rulings and judicial trials show a much stricter application, then we must act. I think we have to do it. But, as I began by saying, we still see that there is great satisfaction in the framework law. I also welcome the choice of examining some cases in law. Nevertheless, I would like to say what stands in the preamble to the 1996/ 97 bill and to the law, which entered into force in 1998: If there is inaccessibility in public transport, in terminals and at stops and in the external environment in connection with them, which means that, due to their handicap, the applicant cannot move on his own without significant difficulties or travel with public communication, the authorisation for the transport service shall be granted. It is a very important and clear statement made in the preparatory work, and I assume that it is also indicative for municipalities and regions when applying it. Of course, I assume, and I think we all do, that it will also be applied when matters are to be settled legally.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-426	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for what I think is a good answer! I agree with much of what the Minister says, but would like to point out that I am not talking about the quality of the service itself, how good the drivers are and so on, but I am talking about licensing. Those who are satisfied with the service are those who have been granted permission to travel. Then there are shortcomings in the quality of some parts of the country. The big problem is that there is a great deal of difference between municipalities and regions. The rules are not the same regardless of where you live. It is a problem that those who actually receive a travel authorisation do not always have the rights that it should entail. As I said, this depends very much on which municipality and region you live in, and it can apply both to restrictions on travel and prices. In some places it is very expensive to go. For example, many of those travelling have sickness benefits or low pensions, and we all know that it is not very fat. There are local restrictions that allow you to travel only at certain times, pre-booking requirements, limited access to escorts, a ban on stopping the road, restrictions on the number of work trips you can make and so on. So it's different across the country. This can be determined without even having to carry out an analysis of whether it is consistent with the government's operational law objectives and even though there is a considerable risk that the purpose of the service will be missed. In addition, each municipality sets its own fees and limits, and charges are increased, as I said. It is not self-evident to be able to afford transportation. The Swedish Association of Visually Injured Persons also reports that in many cases the assessment is no longer made on the basis of the individual's conditions, as it should be done, which further worsens the situation. Licensors and administrative law increasingly justify their decision that the transport service is not a form of assistance, but should be seen as a form of traffic and interpret it as an essential difficulty. This is done on the basis of a series in the preparatory work, in other words in the bill. So it seems that you can select which lines of the bill you want to use. One cannot believe that travel by means of transport services can be replaced by public transport in any case. Public transport can be used in some cases but needs to be supplemented by a transport service authorisation. Public passenger transport will never be able to fully meet the travel needs of people with, for example, visual impairment. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable to see the transport service as a form of traffic rather than a right for those who need it? Does the Minister think that this approach promotes the objectives of functional rights policy? How does the Minister view the local restrictions which exist in certain places and which severely restrict the right to travel services even for those who, after all, have obtained a permit? Is this something that the government plans to review in the legislation? How does the Minister intend to ensure that the assessment of who should be entitled to a permit is based on the rights perspective and functional rights policy objectives rather than transport policy objectives?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-436	Madam President, I would like I think, as I said, that it is a challenge and a concern if municipalities and regions choose not to comply with the intentions of the legislation. After all, the whole point of departure is the shared division of responsibilities that the Riksdag has supported and has not changed. The Parliament believes that it should be a framework law, that municipalities and regions should be responsible – just as with public transport, by the way – and that they take that responsibility and comply with the intentions of the legislation. If a person cannot move on his own or travel by public transport without significant difficulties, authorisation for the service shall be granted. That must be the starting point. If it turns out that there are more people who are being denied, I must assume that the matter is also being examined. That's how it has to be done. The second part is that, politically, in municipalities and regions, where the issue belongs, this is being pursued and recognised. I have said this before: it is not possible to legislate away moderate savings or parties that drive us to spend less resources on common transport, whether it be public transport or transport services. However, it should be announced to citizens that the quality of transport services and public transport is essentially about the resources made available. It is clear that legislation provides the conditions, but there is clear guidance, and it is up to municipalities and regions to live up to the expectations that exist. I believe that the background to the fact that Parliament has not chosen over all these years to move on to detailed legislation, in which the state will regulate what then becomes every detail, is that it is up to those who, in that case, are denied permission to have the matter also brought to justice. I would like to say, however, that once it is discussed, the majority of all those who travel on the road are very satisfied and see that the service works very well in our society. It is a fantastic opportunity that provides increased accessibility to many. Municipalities and regions have a responsibility to comply with the Transport Service Act. Should this prove to be an increased concern, we obviously need to analyse the issue further and be prepared to act.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-443	Madam President, I would like I can begin by pointing out that the current regulatory framework and the changes that have taken place have significantly increased costs over the last few decades, despite the fact that the number of permits has decreased by as much as a quarter. As the Minister says, travel services should be for those who, due to a disability, find it difficult to move physically on their own, to orient themselves or to use public transport. Travel services should help people with disabilities, like others, to live freely, work, study and have active leisure time. This is not the case today because of the lack of authorisation. The service is linked to the possibility of travelling on public transport, and this link has become increasingly clear through case law. Society needs to decide: Either travel is a right for those who have difficulty moving on their own or it is a form of traffic. For me, it is self-evident that the assessments of who should be entitled to travel service should be based on a rights and accessibility perspective and that individual reasonableness assessments should be made based on the individual's circumstances and not on traffic policy. I interpret Tomas Eneroth as following the issue and being willing to analyse and review legislation and application should it prove necessary. For this I thank you very much.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander! I believe that we have a common interest in ensuring that we have a quality service for everyone throughout the country. This is a challenge, because it is clear that there are municipalities that deliberately choose not to make available the resources that should be available for economic and political reasons. We in the government, not least during the pandemic, have significantly increased state subsidies to municipalities and regions. I think the surplus for 2020 is SEK 51 billion. So there are resources and conditions, and then it is up to responsible politicians in regions and municipalities to consider how to use these resources. Whether we talk about travel services or accessibility for all individuals and whether you live in a sparsely populated municipality or in Stockholm's inner city, it is incredibly important that we increase accessibility rather than reduce it for people. It is an important part, and it is also basically a right we should all have as individuals. I think we have the same views and the same objectives, but I am anxious that there should continue to be a framework law and not detailed legislation. Of course, we should also ensure that we follow developments and be prepared to act if this proves necessary at national level as well.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-452	Madam President, I would like Momodou Jallow has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to combat the existence of institutional racism and discrimination in public activities and whether I intend to take any initiatives to set up a crisis commission against discrimination. First of all, let me be crystal clear. Racism has no place in Sweden. It must be fought with the full force of society and in all areas of society. No one should be subjected to racism or discrimination. Racism and discrimination are harmful both to individuals who are victims and to society as a whole. This leads to people being denied equal chances of life, but it also risks undermining democracy by people being silenced or losing confidence in, for example, authorities. The importance of visibility and work against structural racism is reflected in the Government's national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime. The Living History Forum is working to educate civil servants on how to ensure the quality of public services' response to the public through anti-racism work. At the end of last year, the agency was also tasked with carrying out a survey of people's experiences of racism in contacts with Swedish authorities and other public activities at national, regional and local level. Today, there is no overall picture of the knowledge that exists about people's experiences of racism in contacts with Swedish authorities and other public activities. The said mission will therefore be an important first step in further work to support authorities to ensure equal and legally secure treatment of individuals and to prevent people's access to welfare being affected by factors such as ethnicity. An effective and comprehensive anti-discrimination law with effective enforcement in the event of non-compliance is an important prerequisite for a society where people are treated equally and have access to the same life chances. Protection against discrimination in public activities is currently different. Some authorities, including law enforcement authorities, have weaker anti-discrimination protection for individuals than for other authorities. The Government has therefore given the opinion on certain issues of the Discrimination Act a mandate to consider how to change the protection of discrimination in certain public activities in order to ensure that the protection against discrimination is as comprehensive as possible. The investigation shall submit its report on 1 October 2021. All employers must work to promote and prevent discrimination and in other ways promote equal rights and opportunities regardless of ethnic affiliation. The Ombudsman for Discrimination supervises compliance with the law. The Ombudsman's mandate includes, for example, monitoring research and development work, proposing constitutional changes or other measures to combat discrimination and initiating other appropriate measures to the Government. The government is always prepared to consider whether more efforts and new approaches are needed to combat racism and discrimination, but does not currently have any plans to set up a crisis commission against discrimination.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-460	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Minister Stenevi for her reply and for the efforts and actions that the Minister mentioned in his reply. But there are many with me who can testify that these are far from sufficient to counteract the structural and institutional racism that affects people in Sweden today. It affects African Swedes, Muslims and other racial groups in Sweden today. Racism reaps lives. People die because of racism in Sweden. Let me also say that we live in the same country but on different conditions. It doesn't matter what you're called. It matters if you are called Momodou, as I am, if you are called Fatima, is a Muslim and has a veil, or if you are called Märta Stenevi. It matters what skin color you have, and it matters what beliefs you have and how you choose to wear it. Allow me to give some concrete examples. It cannot have escaped anyone to read about the tragic death of 16-year-old e Kwakus as a result of his refusal of emergency ambulance care. When he got sick, his parents called. The ambulance came, and the ambulance staff looked at him and judged that he was not as ill as he was pretending to be. They left him there, and he died. He was only 16 years old. Kwaku prepared to go to high school; he had his life ahead of him, but he died. One might wonder if his parents had lost Kwaku if he had not been a black boy for 16 years in Sweden. That is the question you have to ask yourself. Let me also give another example. First - time mother Asha, 23 years old, was about to give birth. When she was born, she almost lost her life because of the severe pain she suffered. Asha repeatedly pointed out that she experienced terrible pains, but instead of being examined and receiving care, she heard derogatory comments related to her ethnicity. Asha ended up in septic shock. It's a life-threatening condition, and all the organs failed. Asha had an infection in her uterus. Nine bags of blood were consumed, and Asha suffered a cardiac arrest not once but twice. An African Muslim man, whom we have recently read about, who himself was a doctor, had crashed and injured himself during a football match. The next day, an ambulance was called. When the ambulance sent out with the highest priority arrived at the residence, the man was unconscious. The ambulance nurse judged that the man was playing unconscious and that it was a cultural fainting, so the condition was prioritised. Later, the man died as a result of brain hemorrhage. The examples are many and, unfortunately, often invisible, but it is time for us to speak out loud about them today. Nor are they individual cases and exceptions, but they bear witness to a structural problem. It's collective experiences of people who are racialized in this country. It is impossible to ignore the fact that racism and discrimination at both individual and structural levels characterise Swedish society: in school, in the housing market, in health care, in the police and also in working life. Nor can they be reduced to or defined as isolated isolated incidents and experiences. They're real, and they affect people. I would therefore like to know what the minister responsible intends to do, not only in words but in action, to counter this tragedy, this pandemic, which affects so many people in this country.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-467	Madam President, I would like It blows racist winds, and what was stopped to some extent in the past by a well - built social foundation blows through the crackling walls. The cracks were there before, but they've grown so much that the wind is everywhere, even in this chamber. The Government refers to the mandate given to the Living History Forum to map people's experiences of racism. We believe that this is far from enough. There are countless reports that point to structural racism suffered by the racists. I think that these reports could be used as a basis, and then changes could already be made to break down the structures. They could be part of the crisis commission's documentation. In this respect, I would like to highlight the situation of small businesses. It is a question, among other things, of entrepreneurship itself being a path that many people choose when they are faced with precarious employment, unexploitation of skills and, in some cases, unemployment, i.e. if they had not met with the racist structure of the labour market, they might have chosen a different path from being a small business. In politics, rather than addressing racist structures, responsibility has been referred to the individual. Governments have often pointed out that entrepreneurship among foreign born people should be increased in order to reduce unemployment. It is pointed out that racial entrepreneurs will employ more racists. Entrepreneurship becomes a win-win situation in the statistics. But as a racial entrepreneur, you face obstacles, just like in other parts of society. It has long been known that many racial entrepreneurs face obstacles in the form of denial of bank loans to a greater extent. There are differences in the way the bank loan is granted in terms of claims and interest. It is true, in itself, that racial entrepreneurs are more likely to employ racially-based entrepreneurs. But it shows that there is a need for a proper effort in the business community on how to hire and who to hire if we do not want to try to continue to increase our society. Responsibility must be placed on the majority society, but we need to be much clearer about what it means to discriminate and what its consequences are. We cannot place the responsibility on the individual when it comes to confronting structural racism. Another issue I would like to take this opportunity to highlight is the discriminatory pension system. We are many children of foreign-born pensioners who see how our parents live in poverty because of the pension system. There will be a consistently systematic error. On the one hand, some people do not have time to work for a dignified pension, and on the other hand they face discrimination in the labour market. Occupation and skills are not taken into account, and this is, of course, reflected in the pension. As in other parts of society, it is both structural racism and the patriarchal structure that are most present in unfair pensions. It is our role as politicians to put this right. How many generations will have to live as poor pensioners?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-477	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I welcome the fact that the Government is prepared to consider whether more efforts are needed to combat racism and discrimination. We are convinced that more are needed. However, I must say that it is regrettable that the Government concludes by saying that she has no plans to set up a crisis commission against discrimination. On the one hand, we hear the Government say that no one should have to be subjected to racism and discrimination; on the other hand, she says that there is no need for a crisis commission. But we know how widespread racism is in Sweden; every report, a lot of research and several thousand testimonies have repeatedly been established! We also heard it just now here in the introduction. That's why we're standing here demanding a crisis commission. Racism is a national crisis. Sweden and the rest of Europe are characterised by structural and institutional racism, and clear, concrete and targeted measures are needed. We live in the same country but live under different conditions, and these are vital. An anti-racist policy must see this and want to do something about it at all levels. I would also like to say that this is not about individuals who can be called racists or not, but about a whole system of racist notions that persists since the emergence of colonialism. That is why racism must be put in its historical context. It is about the economic and social exploitation of the West and how it is expressed today. It is about power and structures that make people consistently, consciously or unconsciously disadvantaged because of their skin colour or ethnicity in working life, in the housing market, in school and so on. The fact that this debate is not conducted on a broader front is in itself proof of who is in power. When it comes to power, it is also about who belongs to the upper class positions and who can exploit and influence class conditions, which are characteristic of racism. This also makes me think of the balance of power between employers and employees, which this government very clearly wants to tip over to the employer's side by wanting to break employment protection – the employment protection that we have been fighting for for both trade union and political for decades. It will lead to precarious and quiet workplaces. This leads to fragmentation and increased class differences. Because when inequality increases, racist notions of non-whites also grow and reproduce – precisely to exploit, precisely to give worse conditions and wages and to break out and sort people into the labour market. Historically, our success has been based on never letting the employee collective split. We have faced oppression with solidarity, by taking the fight for everyone's right to safety in the workplace and with the community that workers need in the workplace. When security is broken, the fragmentation is also in danger of increasing and inequalities are cemented in the labour market. How does this fit with the government's words that no one should have to be subjected to racism and discrimination? How does the government want to protect workers when, in practice, you want to break this security for the employee collective? This only increases the polarisation of the labour market.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-486	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In this debate it may appear that we are cursed, that we are tired and that we are frustrated. And that's exactly what's supposed to happen, because we're pissed, we're tired of this and we're very frustrated. Most often when we talk about racism in Sweden, the discussion tends to end up in the Swedish Democrats. It is a struggle that the four of us who are involved in the debate today, and I also know Märta Stenevi, is in. We take a clear stand against the racist party that we have in the Swedish parliament. But the problem of racism is much greater than that. It has been around much longer than that, and unfortunately – if we do nothing politically – it will be there for a very long time to come. When we talk about history, we sometimes forget Sweden's part in the transatlantic slave trade. We forget how Sweden has treated, and indeed to this day, the Sami indigenous people. Racism and contempt for Sami have been taking place in Sweden for a very long time. Sweden received criticism last December because it simply does not respect the rights of indigenous peoples in our country. The UN's Committee on Racial Discrimination has repeatedly made sharp criticisms that Sweden is in various ways violating the rights of indigenous peoples. Hatred against the Sami is increasing, and discrimination against them is increasing. They get worse conditions for their reindeer nutrition and fishing industry. They get worse schooling. These are issues that we have raised time and again, but nothing happens. While I'm on the subject of schooling, I want to talk about school in a broader perspective. When the Foundation Friends released its latest report, it was noted that the most common practice of harassment in school was racist. It was about ethnicity, and it was about skin color. To this day, the government does not have a work plan for how to tackle the structural racism that exists in our school. Parents of Afrosven children have, through the Forum for Parents of Afrosven children, taken the initiative to collect tens of thousands of names across the country to show that enough is enough. They said: That's enough, our children should not be treated racistly at school! The government chose to do exactly nothing. We also see how market logic and the entire business system around Swedish schools lead to terrible divisions among students. We even see how this has led to a division where parents go out and collect signatures so that their children will not go to the same school as children with foreign background. What is this if not racialization? And what is this if not a disaster for a democracy like Sweden? When we talk about this, one can imagine that the Swedish government has taken a stand against racism and that the Swedish government states that it opposes a fascist party in the Swedish parliament, but what happens to structural racism in all these areas? There are more areas. We can take the police, or the judiciary, as an example. When youths in the suburbs are forced to search and drive to the woods miles from home and are forced to walk back, who do we call to account? Nobody – so far not a single cop has had to go there for these things. The government has a responsibility, and that is a responsibility that you have not yet taken. We are simply calling for a political change on these issues.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-496	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions– I'll try to get some kind of structure to my answer. First of all, I would like to say that I share the image of the interpeller and the questioners of structural racism and of the discrimination that is taking place, so we do not disagree with the description of the problem. I would also like to say that we still have a lot to do and that I welcome this discussion. I think it is important and believe that we need it, both to make it visible and to discuss the problems that arise and to have a good debate and discussion on what needs to be done. We are working on the basis of the strategy that exists in five different areas to combat racism. We work structured with knowledge, education and research to post assignments. We have previously posted anti-Semitism missions to the Crime Prevention Council. We have just received back the report on Islamophobia, and we have laid out the mission on aphrophobia. V i will have to continue to detach this. It is important to see both the similarities and the differences in how racism in Sweden manifests itself, because it is important for what we can do and how we can get to grips with the problems. We work with improved coordination and follow-up to get the authorities to work together, to get more agencies to hook arms and to be able to give more assignments and take advantage of the knowledge that emerges. Not least, it is about the fact that, for example, the Police Authority needs to work further – and will work further – with the education and awareness-raising that is needed in order for us to get to grips with the abuses that arise there. We were looking at increased entrepreneurship as a way of getting away from discrimination in the workplace. I would say that I am in favour of increasing entrepreneurship among foreign born but not in response to discrimination in the workplace. The report in connection with the inquiry into the Ombudsman for Discrimination is currently being consulted. One of the proposals is to give trade unions the right to raise the issue of periodic penalty payments directly on the Board. I think this is a good proposal and hope that we will be able to proceed with it, precisely in order to strengthen the possibility of not only having legislation against discrimination and on active measures, but also putting pressure behind it so that the preventive efforts that every employer in Sweden is obliged to work with also get pressure behind them. I would also like to mention the mandate of the Ombudsman for Children to identify, investigate and collect what children and young people are experiencing today in the form of racism. We know it looks very different. In Malmö we have situations where victims and perpetrators meet each other in changing roles. It is incredibly important that we constantly face and never shy away from the racism that is taking place in our schools if our children are to have the opportunity to receive an equal education, because, as many of the authors have pointed out, we do not have equal conditions today. Power is not evenly distributed in Sweden today – no matter how much shit right-wing trolls throw at me on Twitter because that statement is still so that power is not evenly distributed. If we are to deal with this, we need to know what it looks like, and then we also need to understand what we need to do about it.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-504	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. All these efforts are very welcome. I think it is very important to make these efforts and give all the assignments that were mentioned. I had a very good dialogue with the minister's predecessor Åsa Lindhagen, and I hope that we will continue to have that kind of dialogue on these very issues. What makes us stand here today, as my colleague Daniel mentioned earlier, is that we are frustrated. We are angry and desperate because we see people dying. It's about life and death now. We cannot say that we must have a long investigation and wait for it to be prepared. We must act now, because it is a crisis. That is why the Left Party is proposing a crisis commission to sit down and look at public activities in a coordinated manner. We shall not have small missions here and there, and we shall not have them so that we do not know how long it will take before the missions come and so that it will be prepared. These different processes can take a very long time. This is a reality for many people, and that is why we must act. As mentioned, it is not a question of isolated incidents but of collective experience. There are many people in this country who wake up every day, go to work and are exposed to this. Let me give you a few examples. With regard to racism in health care, as I mentioned, I gave a single example. In a new petition, over 1 000 doctors and medical students demand that we act and take action against racism in healthcare. The evidence of racism in Swedish health care is many and well documented; we know that. The patients get hurt, and they die because of their skin color. Doctors are exposed to racism by both patients and colleagues. Patients opt out of doctors because of their name or appearance. This is in the roll call, which was published on Expressen's debate page. It doesn't matter if it's about patients or doctors. You're training. It is said that immigrants do not train and that immigrants are lazy, so you go to school and become doctors. But even then you don't get the opportunity to work as a doctor without being discriminated against. Patients need care, and there's talk of equal care. But even then you don't get care, you risk dying – not because of complications caused by the disease, but because of people's prejudices against you because of your skin color. This cannot be acceptable in a democratic society. We cannot wait; we must act now. We must resort to real, real actions and actions – not fine words and rhetoric that everyone can agree with. We can all say that all people are equal, and we can all say that we are antiracists. But that's not what makes a difference, but what makes a difference is what we actually do. That is why we are standing here asking the minister responsible: what does the minister responsible intend to do? If she does not know what to do, we have a proposal for a crisis commission – not just a Commission but a crisis commission – to work quickly to find out the extent and incidence of institutional racism in public activities. The Crisis Commission will also develop proposals for measures to ensure that people living in this country live here on equal terms, regardless of how you look, whether you are a man or a woman, whether you are a Muslim or a non-Muslim or whether you are black or white. That is what is being asked for, and I think it is reasonable to ask for this in a democratic society such as Sweden. What does the Minister intend to do to combat the existence of institutional racism in public activities? Does the Minister intend to take the proposal we have put forward and ensure that there is a Commission to look at not only health care but also the police and racial profiling in schools and in the labour market? It is very important that this is done in a coordinated way, so that we know what it looks like and put forward concrete measures.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-516	Madam President, I would like We are generations who have lived with this. My parents put up with it in the hope that I and my sisters would not experience it. Today it is our children who live under the racist structures. More and more cities are being segregated from us and them. It is we who are called the ethnic Swedes, and they are the racial ones, such as me and my comrades. The segregation is drawn as a knife-sharp line across the city's borders. It goes from one metro station to another. When there is talk of this, there is usually no talk about the structural obstacles that exist in society. It has become quite easy to point out the responsibility for segregation, and that responsibility should be borne by those of us who live in the localities. It is we who do not take responsibility for our economic development, it is we who do not take responsibility for choosing the right school for our children, it is we who do not take responsibility for our health and it is we who do not take responsibility for the language, says the racists. Few times there is talk about the lack of housing policy, a good school system that my peers point to, the precarious employment offered or why there is a difference between the care we receive, because there is a difference. There is a difference between the availability, the diagnosis, whether or not you have cultural fainting and whether the patient is given full information or not. Racial structures affect people's material conditions, security, participation, influence, human rights and access to power. We can't have that, so let's look at the racist structure and tear it up. Crisis Commission now, please!
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-523	Madam President, I would like It is skilful for the Government not to answer the question of whether she wants to break employment protection, because it is an extremely political question, of course, how this government wants to worsen the country's employee collective and thus create division between us. It is in this division that racism is increasing in Sweden. It is in this inequality that racism is increasing. Instead, we get answers such as making racism visible, that authorities should hook arms and so on. But do we want to make policies out of this and develop measures? Then make anti-racism an obvious policy area! This has been half a side mission. It is provocative that when you want to destroy employment protection, which, for example, polarises people, creates divisions and creates even more racism, we are told about more side missions rather than targeted measures. We believe in a strong and robust welfare state, and that is what we in the Left Party want. It must guarantee everyone's equal right to education, to health care, to safety and to work. We need an active policy that creates equality, not that pulls people apart. But what we are instead seeing is the deep injustices – economic, social and powerful in the labour market – that you are taking forward. Finally, it is a matter of missed life chances, and we cannot accept that. We're seeing a split. Racism causes people to be marginalised, excluded, deprived of well-being and restricted rights and used as cheap labour. But not a single answer to this was given here.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-527	Madam President, I would like We can look at the life expectancy. So, as my colleague, Lorena Delgado Varas, said, it can differ for years just a few subway stations further away. Depending on whether you live in Vårby farm or if you live in Danderyd, it may differ up to ten years in life length. What does that have to do with? What conclusions can we draw from the fact that in all the different areas of our society, both public and private, we have less opportunities for life? What can we link to the fact that we have never ever heard of a police officer being convicted for treating youths racistly? What conclusions can we draw when thousands of people submit complaints to both the Discrimination Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman and other institutions in our society, but nothing is happening in practice? Then the side missions are not enough. Then it is not enough for us to have a minister standing here saying: Yes, there is a problem. We do not have the same situation and conditions, and we have known this throughout our lives in this country. What, then, is required for change? Why does the government not want to agree to have equality data to show which discriminations take place most in our society? Why won't the government agree to what Momodou Malcolm Jallow proposes in the interpellation? The government can't just talk about standing up to racism. Structural racism is also the responsibility of the government itself.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-530	Madam President, I would like It has been interesting to read the motion that the interpeller points to, not least what it describes the crisis commission to do: to take advantage of the extensive academic knowledge on discrimination and health and safety issues, to make proposals on concrete and forward-looking policies and to have a special focus on the sectors that are a direct public responsibility. It also wants to review the discrimination cases. But what is proposed in the exercise is already going on. I am not convinced that there will be fewer investigations or fewer long-line draws because we are setting up a structure for this. I think we should get on with the missions that have begun. I believe that we should move forward with the mandate to the Discrimination Ombudsman, which can strengthen the possibility of preventing and combating discrimination in workplaces. One thing we need to be clear about is that discrimination is not legal in Sweden today. What we need to achieve is a pressure behind the existing legislation. Ethnic profiling of young people is not legal, so we must get to the point where the law is not being complied with. It is not legal to deny any treatment on the grounds of ethnicity, or on any other grounds of discrimination for that matter, and we need to move on with that. I also want to gather the knowledge that exists. I think it is extremely important that we get on with the discrimination measures. On the other hand, I am not convinced that a Commission in the form proposed by the Left Party would speed up progress.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-534	Madam President, I would like It is not legal to discriminate in Sweden, and we all know that. But do people in Sweden discriminate? Yes, we all know that. If we have legislation that says that we must not be discriminated against, but people are systematically disadvantaged, which leads to people dying, then something is not right. Then there is something in the legislation that is not enough, which we need to look at and change. It's not something we have to wait for. When people die, we have to act quickly, because then it's an emergency. That is why we are standing here, and that is why we do not want to wait until after the elections. We do not want to wait ten years, because we do not know how many people are risking their lives when we stand here today because they look like me. It's a reality. As mentioned here, we have seen this problem in health care, in the police, in school and in the labour market. Uppsala University produced a report on behalf of the County Administrative Board Stockholm. It shows that Afrosvens have lower wages than the other Swedish population with the same education. In addition, it is almost ten times more common for people from the rest of the population to achieve managerial positions than for Afrosvens to do so. The study also shows large differences between Afros Swedish and other populations in all areas studied: unemployment, gross wage, disposable income, access to low- and high-status professions and the opportunity to make a career. This is a reality for many people. These are fundamental human rights, values and principles that should be self-evident in all public activities. Unfortunately, that is not the case. In Sweden, this is often met with culture of silence, denial and color blindness. We have to change that. In 2020 several Swedish Radio employees signed a protest call, for which they were punished. This must change.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-539	Madam President, I would like Yes, Sweden should be free from racism and hate crime. No, the legislation we have today is not enough. We haven't reached the finish point. There is a two-part development in Sweden today. On the one hand, studies show that support for transparency and inclusion has increased over time. At the same time, so many people are witnessing a more violent social climate in which racism is becoming increasingly evident. During the last year with the coronapndemine, the net hat has increased avalanche. Anti-Semitic tropes that we haven't seen widely in society since the Second World War spread into those rooms that claim to be non-racist. We see an increase in anti-Semitism, anti-Ziganism, afrophobia, Islam o fobin and racism against Sami people. We see a sharp increase in racism against Asians, especially East Asians, in today's Sweden, Europe and the world. These socially constructed notions of the inherent characteristics of different groups have no place in our society. We must therefore come to the finish, and every one of the tasks assigned to every authority must be carried out, brought forward and put into practice. If we need an umbrella over them after we finish, I would be happy to come back and discuss it. But first I want this in place, because I share the impression that there is a hurry, that people are dying and that we need to get this quickly to the finish. Racism is a poison in the social body, and the government will continue to work against racism all the way.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-545	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I believe that the definition and examples of what constitutes racism in the government's national plan are appropriate and whether I will work for the definition to be evaluated and possibly changed. In the National Plan against Racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime, decided in November 2016, the Government states that when it uses the concept of racism in the Plan, it refers to perceptions that people, due to conceptions of race, national, cultural or ethnic origin, religion, skin colour or other similar relationship, are distinct from each other and that they can or should be treated in different ways. To regard cultures as unchangeable and irreconcilable and the cultural affiliation of individuals as unchangeable and inherited as well as to consider that different cultures cannot coexist has become the expression of racism today. This can take the form of individuals as well as groups being perceived as foreign or undesirable in a society. Racism can lead to acts of hate crime or discrimination. An important perspective is that there is structural racism. In the national plan, the government uses the concept of structural racism in the sense that racist actions are not always based on an individual's political convictions, but can take place unconsciously. This means that racism, in various forms, exists as part of society's structures. As a result, people have different access to rights and opportunities, as well as power and influence because of others' conscious or unconscious notion of an individual's group membership. A structural perspective also means that individual cases of discrimination or hate crime should not be seen as isolated events but as part of a wider context. There are various forms of racism, such as aphrophobia, anti-Semitism, antiziganism, Islamophobia and racism against Sami. Racism also takes other forms. In the plan, the government uses these concepts in the sense of ideologies, beliefs or values that express hostility to Africans, Jews, Roma, Muslims or Sami. The plan covers all forms of racism, i.e. not only the forms explicitly mentioned. Definitions of concepts such as racism are the subject of constant development and discussion. I believe that the definition given by the government in the national plan against racism is appropriate for the implementation of the plan. I am not currently planning to work towards evaluating the definition and possibly changing it.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-554	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I really wish that the government took this issue seriously and that it had a real ambition to identify and combat racism and discrimination. However, if you read the document entitled ‘Overall approach to racism and hate crime' – National plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime, it is quite clear that this is not the case. This issue is first and foremost important from an ideological point of view. No human can help what he looks like or that he speaks with a somewhat unusual dialect, and treating people worse because of such qualities is, of course, a serious injustice. For me, there is also a little personal dimension. I have three non-white children, and to the extent that Sweden becomes more racist it will in the long run also affect me. However, the problem with how the government deals with this issue lies in defining the concept of racism far too broad, which means that racism is everywhere all the time. This makes the work both offensive to people who are accused of being racist without any reason, and totally ineffective in actually remedying this type of problem. I shall therefore take some concrete examples from the plan and ask a few simple questions. I hope the Government makes an honest attempt to respond. Chapter two of the plan is called Racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime in today's Sweden. It should give a picture of how serious the problem is, including by looking at so-called attitude surveys. One way to get an indication of how widespread different attitudes are in society and how they develop over time are attitude surveys. It is important to make racist and hostile attitudes visible. ..................................................... An example of such attitudes can be found on page 27. It says that in the year 2 0 15 the proportion of people who thought it was a good idea to accept fewer refugees of 40% was low. Moreover, that group had increased to 52% at the last time of the survey. Two questions have to be asked here. Is it reasonable to say that anyone who wants to receive fewer asylum seekers is racist? I represent a party that has around 1 million voters today. We want to receive fewer asylum seekers because it is a huge financial and cultural burden. But it has nothing to do with the person's appearance or physical characteristics. The next question you have to ask yourself is whether this rule applies to everyone. In January 2020 Prime Minister Stefan Löfven spoke in the newspaper Dagens Nyheter in an interview about the reception of asylum applications: ..................................................... The question then has to be asked is this: how is the credibility of the government in this matter affected by the fact that, according to the government's own definition of racism itself, the Prime Minister is a racist?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-564	Madam President, I would like I think the interpellant should ask the Prime Minister himself questions. On the other hand, as the interpeller notes, the definition of racism is worded in such a way that it extends beyond skin colour and breakage because there is a perception in society that cultural characteristics are immutable and thus unbreakable, which discriminates and means, for example, that women who choose to wear a veil are attacked, get the veil torn off and get spit on. This means that Jewish children who do not necessarily look otherwise are still exposed to racist hate crimes at school. This means that Sami face racism every day in their reality. This also means that we are now seeing an increase in racism against people from East Asia, for example. I find it difficult to understand why Ludvig Aspling, if he is now looking to show that he represents an anti-racist party, in the definition wants to ignore manifestations of afrophobic, anti-Ziganism, anti-Semitism, racism against Roma and racism against Sami. It is not that we have written in that attitudes are a single factor in the reception of refugees, but I have just read out the whole definition that exists. On the other hand, it can be observed that the discourse that the interpellete's party is constantly pushing when talking about cultural burdens, when talking about a religion that is terrible and when you constantly paint groups because of their culture, because of their background and because of their ethnicity, creates an increasing racism in society. These links are very clear, and I find it hard to believe that Ludvig Aspling will stand in this House and deny them.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-568	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it is not my job to inform the Government of how the Government Office is organized. You can't put interpellations to the Prime Minister. If you do, he sends one of his ministers here, and that's why the government is here. You cannot wriggle by saying that you cannot answer for what the Prime Minister says. It's bullshit, but okay. The rule is therefore such that if an ordinary person says that he wants us to receive fewer asylum seekers, he is racist, but if the Prime Minister says exactly the same thing, the Prime Minister is not. Everyone is equal, but some are a little more equal than others, as you say. Let's move on. Another attitude survey that the government points out as a sign of racism is the 2016 Diversity Barometer. I read in it that since the major changes revealed in the study, the proportion of respondents who think that new arrivals should have the same social rights as people born in Sweden has decreased from 77% to 55%. Social rights refer here to access to the various welfare systems. It may be interesting to look a little in the bill 2016/ 17:154 Limitations in parental allowance for parents who come to Sweden with children. In it, the government proposes, among other things, that if a person settles in Sweden with children after the child has reached the age of two, parental benefit should be provided for a maximum of 100 days in total for the parents, i.e. significantly lower than for other parents, i.e. a clear limitation of new arrivals' social rights. What brutal racist has made this up? Yes, the bill was commissioned by Annika Strandhäll, former Minister of Social Democrats. The bill was also supported by the entire Green Party's parliamentary group and the environmental party ministers. One obvious question here is: if people who think that social rights for new arrivals should be restricted are racists, as the plan states, and if the government then makes a proposal aimed precisely at limiting the social rights of new arrivals, does this not mean that the government, according to its own definition, is a racist government? Yes, it does. An obvious counter-argument from the Government is, of course, that environmental party ministers or MPs do not read meeting papers and have no idea what they are voting for or against, and that is why they end up in this situation. But as we stated in the previous post, the rule of who is racist and who is not is obviously very elastic. The ministers themselves have the opportunity to make such statements, but if ordinary people say exactly the same, they are racists. The Government must understand somewhere that by acting in this way she is drawing a veil over the government's work in this area, and I think that is a pity. I find it sad that the Green Party can never take anything seriously.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-574	Madam President, I would like I will content myself with the fact that I find it incredibly sad that we are in this House under the impression that we should discuss racism and the definition of racism and that the interpeller is, instead, spending his valuable time here trying to reduce and ridicule the actual experiences described in the plan, the measures required and the action plans that we need to develop in order to reduce racism. He wants to limit the content to what people look like and sound. I wonder how the interpeller, by bringing forward and wishing that definition and discussing that this should be the right discussion because otherwise we do not take the issue seriously, thinks that he should take seriously all the stories that we heard just a little while ago in this House and how we should face the racism that exists in different parts of our society because there is structural racism based on culture and ethnic background – all parameters, not just the single parameters that the interpeller now highlighted – and why, in the name of all peace, he does not want to discuss instead how we can overcome the obvious structural racism that occurs in Sweden and that affects on far more grounds of discrimination than just skin colour and accent.
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-576	Madam President, I would like I am familiar with this at least superficially, and I can say that there is no credible study showing that structural racism is real. It is a fiction that has been invented to explain away failures in migration policy in general. The interpellation is not about this, however, but about what is on the subject. I wish the Government could try to stick to the subject. One final point that I would like to make regarding the definition of racism in the plan is that on page 11 to consider that different cultures cannot coexist, has become the expression of racism today. First of all, it is incorrect to describe criticism of cultures as an expression of racism. Racism refers to physical qualities that people have, while cultures refer to values, standards, and patterns of life that people have. A big difference is that one is changing while the other is not changing. In the usual order when it comes to documents from the Green Party, it is rather carelessly written. The claim may be true or false depending on how it is interpreted. There are, of course, cultures that can and cannot coexist. Let me take a simple example. The Islamic State has its own distinct culture that exists in several places in Sweden. A cornerstone of this culture is that Gud has written a book with perfect rules that covers everything, both private and in society. Another pillar is that anyone who believes in Gud will establish a state based on these rules and that will replace democracy. The person shall also use all available means, including indiscriminate violence, to achieve this objective. It is quite obvious to me that this culture is not compatible with the culture in which we in Sweden live – democratic society – because the very purpose is to destroy this society. I would like to hear what the Government is saying here. Is the culture expressed in the Islamic State, for example, compatible with democratic society in Sweden?
i-6cee4c3e254db9de-582	Madam President, I would like It's very easy to answer that. First of all, I should like to point out that it is not the Green Party document but the government. It may be good to note, as the interpellier usually takes care of that kind of detail. No, what the Islamic State expresses is not compatible with the legislation that we have in Sweden and with the values that we have in Sweden. Islam, on the other hand, is a religion that manifests itself in many different ways. There are a large number of Muslims in Sweden today who live completely in line with our laws and with our values and yet practice their religion. When, on the other hand, you start to express yourself as if Muslims are in a certain way, or when Muslims are attacked on an open street because we have political representatives in our society burning under the impression that a religion is not changing and that people living in a culture or in a religion could not coexist with the rest of us, that is very wrong. This is a major problem today, and it is a major problem with the Swedish Democrats. I think this is an important issue. Somewhere it would have been nice if I thought that Ludvig Aspling actually burned to be with us in the fight against racism and in the fight against discrimination every day. I would encourage it, and I would encourage it even more if it meant, for example, that he was working to revise his own party's racist programme or that he called on his party's leading representative to stop inciting immigrants for having a different religion or culture than the majority society. If we should see such a change, I welcome it. I don't see that happening. And the government's line is clear: we will not back down a millimetre in the fight against racism. It also means rejecting that kind of statement.
