i-17722e158f6ad2bf-6	Madam President, I would like Patrik Jönsson has asked me how I and the government intend to act to help municipalities and regions maintain their good public service regarding public transport. The current pandemic requires that public transport can be used safely in order to avoid the spread of infection. However, the responsibility for financing and maintaining local and regional public transport lies with municipalities and regions. At the same time, we also have travellers to follow the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations to avoid unnecessary travel and to avoid, as far as possible, travelling in rush hour. In order for regions and municipalities to maintain capacity in public transport, a total of SEK 5 billion of special support has now been set up. In addition to this, the Government has contributed SEK 26 billion to the general state grant to municipalities and regions for 2020, of which SEK 12.5 billion is proposed as a permanent contribution. For 2021 an additional SEK 10 billion has been added. The government will be careful to ensure that the tax resources set aside in the budget for the reduction of ticket revenues under the coronapndemin come into the activities. This is important in order to contribute to the maintenance of traffic to an extent that can prevent the spread of infection on board.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-10	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The basis for this interpellation is that the Swedish Democrats are concerned about the possibilities for public transport to maintain sufficient good traffic under the coronapem to avoid congestion on trains and buses. The aim is, of course, to reduce the spread of infection in society. I believe that I and Tomas Eneroth agree that the loss of revenue that will occur this year will far exceed the EUR 2 billion for which the government has budgeted. In his reply to me, the Minister for Infrastructure, if I correctly interpret the answer, believes that the solution is that the municipalities and regions should remove the general state subsidies that have been passed on to them to cover the loss of public transport revenue. We should remember that SJ, which is a state-owned company, cannot take part in these state subsidies. I myself sit on the Public Transport Board in Region Skåne, and the signals I have received from other politicians are that they will see only the compensation from the government of 3 billion last year and 2 billion this year as the actual compensation that public transport receives. The state grants of SEK 26 billion that were given last year and the planned SEK 10 billion for 2021 are money that is committed for a very hard-pressed school operation, health care and elderly care. The state subsidies referred to by the Minister for Infrastructure are unlikely to end up in public transport. The money is simply needed for increased efforts in the areas of health care, education and long-term care. No, then, Madam President, municipalities and regions will not see the general state subsidies as part of support for their public transport. I have not yet been able to take note of the exact figure of how much Swedish public transport lost in 2020, but in October SKR estimated that for last year it would end at about 7 1⁄2 billion. This compensated the government by barely half, 3 billion. It feels like a reasonable estimate that the figures for this year will be similar. What, then, does the government choose to do to help? It has been clear with its call to the Swedish public transport operators to continue with their high traffic offer, which we of course consider to be quite right. Well, the government has so far allocated 2 billion for this year. That is, with great certainty, far from what is really going to be needed, Madam President. It is likely that this support needs to be tripled. In the Swedish Democrats' budget motion for 2021, we have chosen to provide 6 billion in compensation for this year. We have also chosen to completely remove the ban fees. It would also benefit companies such as SJ and MTR, freight operators such as Hector Rail and Green Cargo and others. Unfortunately, Tomas Eneroth seems to maintain that more money will not be paid out to compensate for the loss of revenue in public transport. But I am sending the ball over to the minister who will be happy to answer the question: Will the government remain cold-hearted to increased support for public transport for 2021?
i-nys19UZbNRSzGe9FRRkao	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Jönsson! As far as the basic issue is concerned, throughout the pandemic, the government has been pragmatic and has said that we are prepared to discuss the economic conditions, because we are going to help each other during a pandemic. We have demonstrated this by giving EUR 3 billion in earmarked state subsidies to public transport in addition to general state subsidies in previous years. Now we are also giving 2 billion. And I'm not ruling out that there's more to come. In order to benefit from the 2 billion, we have also said, not least in the light of the actions in Skåne and Stockholm, that it is important to maintain a volume in public transport. Patrik Jönsson is a member of the Public Transport Board in Skåne. For those who follow the debate, it may be interesting to know that in Skåne, the bourgeois majority has even long before the pandemic cut down on public transport. Niclas Nilsson, who is the group leader of the Swedish Democrats in Region Skåne, said in November: The government has sent so much money to the region that we do not need to raise the tax. It says something about the attitude; the state is going to push, but local and regional, the Swedish Democrats are obviously not prepared to take their responsibilities. I think that citizens think it is quite reasonable that municipal and regional tax money should be managed in the best way and that regional representatives should also take responsibility for what is their responsibility during a pandemic. Public transport is the responsibility of the region and is financed with tax revenue but also with ticket revenues. The fact that the state during a pandemic is shooting at resources is unique. It has not been done before. I do not rule out that we may have to continue to provide resources in the future. But then I think it is reasonable that the state is clear that a counter-performance is to, in addition to taking responsibility for its own business, maintain volume and not continue to cut down and risk creating congestion on buses or trains in the Skåne region, for example. For whom is it affected? They're not the ones who can take the car to work or work from home. It is all those who are actually referred to by public transport. Who are the indirect victims? It is Region Skåne, which gets more people who are at risk of being infected, because they have not had enough volume in public transport. So what Niclas Nilsson, group leader in the Swedish Democrats, says is that they are obviously not prepared to take responsibility for activities that they are actually responsible for. Instead, it points with all its hands to the government and says that the government should compensate for this. I think it is important to take responsibility for one's political missions. Patrik Jönsson is a member of the Public Transport Board in Region Skåne. Then it is up to Patrik Jönsson to act there too because there are more resources to take responsibility for public transport. As I said, the government has made a great deal of effort. I believe that the figure for direct expenditure during the pandemic is now up to SEK 325 billion. These include earmarked resources, not least for public transport. I do not rule out the fact that we may still need to make further efforts in the future. Withdrawing rail charges into this and lowering Sweden's rail charges, which are today the third lowest in Europe, is something that risks, in the long term, really undermining the resources for infrastructure. I want to see more railway investments and more money for the infrastructure so that main roads can be built in Skåne and so that we can continue to develop regional traffic and the infrastructure investments needed there. I know Patrik Jönsson does not share my view, but Sweden needs more investment in both public transport and rail.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-28	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have collaborated with, among others, Tomas Eneroth's party to make sure to really maintain public transport in Region Skåne, which we do. That's basically where we drive with full strength, and it feels safe. It is the right signal to send to our travellers to show that we are taking their concerns seriously and that we are doing what we can to reduce the spread of infection. Madam President, I would like Swedish Public Transport apparently believes in Santa Claus. They have written a wish list for him, which can be found on their website. On it, they have written, among other things, reduced and credited track fees, and a full compensation for lost ticket revenues. By Santa they probably mean Stefan Löfven. But the person who actually delivers their Christmas present is not the red Santa Claus but the blue-yellow Santa Jimmie Åkesson. Their wishes are met in our budget. One question that arises is: What effects do we risk having if we assume that there is no more money for public transport? Yes, it is, of course, tempting to make cuts in supply to reduce economic damage. This has already happened in some regions, albeit to a low extent. This can, of course, be done in different ways. In Skåne, a company has unfortunately proposed to provide staff with services of 80 percent, which we strongly oppose. Reducing traffic in rush hour will create unwanted congestion, which in turn increases the risk of transmission of infection. If you reduce the supply in low-traffic traffic, the service will be reduced, which in turn causes the commuters to suffer and may be forced to drive or, at worst, not travel at all. In the longer term, we risk seeing a flight of people who reject collective travel and choose to drive even after the coronapndemine. Another solution that cannot be excluded is that municipalities and regions choose to reduce other important activities. It would be devastating for a region, especially with the current health debt, to make the choice, for example, of reducing its health budget in order to cover the loss of revenue in public transport. Apart from this, one can of course choose to increase the municipal tax or county tax, but it would be the wrong time, if any time can now be considered right for this, when a large group of people have been laid off, become unemployed or have had to go down in working hours. For these, an increase in taxes would be directly devastating. Madam President, I would like This is no ordinary recession. Both the government and probably all parties are united on the question that for those who have to travel collectively, that possibility should exist. In addition, public transport must be such as to allow a reasonable distance to be kept to fellow travellers. It is not a question of the bus leaving seven or ten minutes apart, but of having traffic to the extent that a journey can be carried out without a real risk of being infected by the Corona. I do not believe that the government is taking its responsibilities sufficiently to help the various actors in the public transport sector financially. I expect Tomas Eneroth and the government to reopen the stock market and become more generous.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-35	Madam President, I would like It is important that we have good public transport. This is why municipalities and regions responsible for public transport should maintain volumes. Many regions have taken this responsibility well. They have made sure that those working in public transport can travel safely, and they have made sure that the volumes are maintained so that passengers can do so. In Skåne, a wide-ranging discussion has been held between trade union representatives and operators about the conditions for working and travelling safely. A fundamental question is what responsibility is taken regionally for the financing of public transport. The government has chosen to make the unique addition by helping municipalities and regions with public transport. In addition to historically high contributions to general government subsidies, we have provided earmarked state contributions of first 3 billion and then 2 billion. The last 2 billion is given in return for maintaining volume. I would like to ask Patrik Jönsson a question for the reasons set out. Do Patrik Jönsson and the Swedish Democrats think it is good that we are demanding that we maintain the volume? Does the government make the right judgment here? I would like to return to the actions of the Swedish Democrats in Skåne, for example. There Niclas Nilsson says that the government has sent so much money to the region that the region does not need to raise the tax. Does Patrik Jönsson not think it is reasonable to at least consider tax adjustments? This is happening in a situation where we have to spend EUR 325 billion on extraordinary efforts at national level and where a challenge has never been met in the regions. I understood Patrik Jönsson that it was not in the sphere of thought at all to discuss tax increases. I believe that citizens nevertheless expect consideration to be given to ways of ensuring good service, good support, good resources for health care, care for the elderly, school and also public transport. This is why the government has chosen to provide resources, even to bourgeois-led regions where the Swedish Democrats support them, in order for citizens throughout the country to feel the security that it means when you have resources for health care, elderly care and public transport. The government's starting point is self-evident. Public transport is important. The government has gone in with resources. We do not rule out the fact that we may still have to go in with resources in order to also ensure good quality in public transport and that those who work there can also travel safely and safely. It's absolutely crucial. We have demonstrated this in an excellent way, and we have also received Parliament's support for the efforts we are now making in municipalities and regions, as well as, of course, on public transport.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-42	Madam President, I would like What the Minister of Infrastructure says is true. I'm not a person who thinks the main weapon we should use is a tax increase. You're supposed to be restrictive about that. After all, choosing to raise taxes has a major impact on society. There we have completely different views. The Social Democrats have historically not been very well known for being restrictive with tax increases. It is true that the government has contributed a sum of state aid, as surely all governments would have done, which is quite much in line with what has been needed. I think it is positive. Of course, Mr. Eneroth will have to take that on board. When you raise 26 billion in general government subsidies, you still have been quite generous. However, I am talking about the support for 2021. The support for public transport was not more than half of what was requested and what Swedish Public Transport requested. So the question now concerns 2021. The government has chosen to de facto provide SEK 2 billion, and that is clearly not enough. As I understand it, Tomas Eneroth is not entirely cold-minded. He seems open to the possibility of more funds being made available. I sincerely hope that this happens. As I said earlier, politicians will not interpret the general state contribution as support for public transport.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-46	Madam President, I would like With regard to the latter, it is important to listen to what Patrik Jönsson says, i.e. that you do not intend to use the general state grant for parts of your own business, i.e. public transport. The conclusion of this is really serious. The point of general government grants is that they are not earmarked. With them, we trust that regional and municipal elected representatives have the ability, competence, interest and commitment to be able to choose and prioritise important actions. Public transport has proved to be a very important contribution for citizens to be able to travel safely, limit the risk of transmission of infection and thereby reduce the risk of the burden on health care. With this interpretation, we are in danger of developing with more and more earmarked state subsidies. I myself have been a municipal and regional politician before I entered the Riksdag and think that you should trust municipal and regional politicians. I like the idea of a bag of money rather than earmarked state subsidies. What Patrik Jönsson says suggests that in any case in Region Skåne we will have to have even more earmarked resources to ensure that the money is actually distributed as we in a Social Democratic led government think it should be distributed, that is also to public transport. It is perhaps a good receipt that the government is making the right priority, but I think it is worrying if you do not see this challenge even in Region Skåne.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-50	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me if I am prepared to extend the taxameter exemption in 2021. First of all, I would like to emphasise that axi traffic is an important part of the transport system. Until now, there has been a requirement for taxi vehicles to have taximeter equipment installed, while at the same time there has been an opportunity to obtain a derogation if there are exceptional reasons for doing so. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2014 to announce to the government that the current possibility of granting taxameter exemptions should be abolished. This was one of the reasons why the government drafted proposals for new rules in the area of taxis. The Riksdag decided in accordance with the Government's proposal in June 2018. The Moderates were one of the seven parties that voted in favour of the government's proposal. The possibility of so-called taxameter exemption is therefore abolished from 1 January 2021. The main aim of abolishing taxameter exemptions is to improve the tax authority's ability to carry out tax control of taxi operations. It is an important part of the work to create order in the taxi industry. In the light of the coronapandemic and its impact on the industry, proposals were made in spring 2020 to reintroduce the possibility of granting taxameter exemptions or to ensure that exemptions would be extended. The Government therefore referred in September to a proposal for a temporary extension of the exemptions. None of the consultation bodies was in favour of the proposal. For example, the Swedish Taxi Association stated in its referral that maintaining the possibility of exemption from the taxametre requirement would mean that a few operators would benefit at the expense of the large merparte a taxi company.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-54	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his answer. As the Minister for Infrastructure pointed out, covid-19 has hit the transport industry in general and the taxi industry in particular. This also applies to the rental industry, which is a small part of what is lumped together during the taxi industry. Freys Frey in Stockholm, for example, has lost 90 per cent of its turnover in 2020. These are exceptional circumstances that have hit the industry and require exceptional measures. Unfortunately, the government is acting late and usually not enough. This applies to several other areas of transport, such as the YKB and its extension, which we are going to debate tomorrow, as well as traffic permits for commercial traffic, which cause problems when companies are forced to cancel their vehicles for a long time in order to reduce their costs. Madam President, I would like As the Minister for Infrastructure pointed out, we were moderates behind the new regulations of the taxi industry. The new regulations divide the taxi industry into taxis with traditional taxi meters and taxis where you pay a fixed price and book your trip via an approved ordering centre. The aim, which we are behind, is to have a taxi industry where operators have equal conditions, where cheating can be curbed and where travellers can feel safe. The possibility of exemption from having a taxameter previously provided by the Swedish Transport Agency was removed in connection with the new legislation. Under the legislation, cars that do not have taximeters should have something called special equipment for taxi vehicles. What is interesting is that there is no such equipment to buy at present. Those who produce taximeters and other things claim that this is too expensive to develop and that the requirements that Sweden places on the technology in this equipment are much higher than, for example, in Norway, where they have chosen to use an app that is significantly cheaper and simpler. Staying on the ground for the development of this other equipment has not really been the focus of taxi companies and rental companies during the pandemic, given that they are currently struggling for their survival. When the government proposed the extension, it was sent out for a referral. That was absolutely the case. But the fact that no one was positive, as the Government says in its interpellation response, is not true. The referral of transport companies was definitely in favour of an extension. If you read the full answers from the Swedish Hyrverksföreningen and Freys Frey in Stockholm, you can see that they write very clearly that they primarily want their own legislation for rental work because it is not the same as ordinary taxiing. If that is not possible, they absolutely want an extension of the exemption. What is stated in the reply about the consultation bodies and how they acted is not correct, because there were many who were in favour of an extension given the circumstances. The consequence of this is that above all those who have rental work, including Freys Frey, who have existed ever since they drove by horse and wagon, but also companies that only drive community transport towards invoices and that would also fall under this other type of taxi business simply have to close down their business now. It is not economically possible for them to buy taximeters for their cars. There is no other equipment, and they must not be extended. Does the Government consider it reasonable that these companies should now be forced to close down? That's where we stand now.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-60	Madam President, I would like I think it is a sloppy statement that the government is acting too little and too late. As early as 17 March, right at the start of the whole pandemic, I called in all sectors, including aviation, maritime transport, freight transport and passenger transport, in order to be able to get their views quickly and prepare them, so that, in turn, we could deliver historically many proposals to support the transport sector, both with general efforts and with specific efforts. On several occasions I was on the committee and informed, among other things, Maria Stockhaus and other representatives of the Moderates. I did not see any other proposals coming from there, more than possibly the abolition of air tax, as was also suggested by some industry. I think that most people today realise that the abolition of air tax when there are no flights might not have been the most appropriate measure to spend resources on. With regard to the taxi industry, Maria Stockhaus, together with 270 other members of the Swedish Parliament, voted in favour of the bill that we are now talking about. During the two-year exemption period, it was then possible to prepare for the introduction of the new taxametre legislation. In the light of the pandemic, however, I wanted to try the opportunity to see if we need to grant an exemption. That is why we referred this proposal on the initiative of the government, but, as I said, there was a stunning criticism of it. The Swedish Taxi Association writes in its referral: a majority of taxi companies have costs for taximeter equipment, while a few so far have been able to obtain exceptions and thus reduced costs, which is a competitive advantage in public procurement. Thus, if the possibility of exemption from the taxametre requirement is reintroduced, albeit with a restrictive application, a small number of operators will benefit at the expense of the large more party taxi company which is required to comply with the taxametre requirement and which thus has this cost. ..................................................... In the light of what the Swedish Taxi Association writes, I would like to ask Maria Stockhaus as a representative of the Moderates, a party that has traditionally thought it should be good and fair competitive conditions in the Swedish labour market and not least in the business sector: Do Maria Stockhaus share the opinion of the Swedish Taxi Association, or is it okay to have a system where those who have not chosen to invest in taximeter equipment get competitive advantages in public procurement, for example, because they have lower costs? As the trade association has gathered, if the exemption from the taxametre requirement is reintroduced... a few players will benefit at the expense of the large, more-part taxi company that is required to meet the taxametre requirement and which thus has this cost. We have a taxi industry that has major economic concerns. Taxi riders all over the country are under heavy financial pressure but have taken responsibility and installed taximeter equipment. This cost has been taken into account for contributing to order and reducing tax evasion. Those who behave should also have an advantage and priority in public procurement, for example. Now, obviously, Maria Stockhaus wants to open up this opportunity. I'm a little curious to hear how the Moderates reason in this case.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-66	Madam President, I would like In crisis, leadership is being tested. It is clear to us that the government has fallen in many different ways when it comes to dealing with the crisis. Having meetings and listening to what the industry thinks and what problems they have is one thing, to come to the fore and make decisions is a completely different matter. It is above all there that the government has been slow. It has made it difficult and difficult to apply, and it also takes a long time to receive the grants. Many industries have problems. It is not possible to replace everyone 100%. It is important to ensure that the industries we have in Sweden and the activities that exist survive the crisis. The rental industry does not currently see that it can survive because it cannot continue to have an exemption for another year so that it can have another year to recover and ensure that equipment is produced. It must be possible to offer an alternative. It is an activity that is not a regular taxi service. This also applies to some companies which only operate certain public transport services and do not operate taxi services alongside them. Under the legislation, there must be fair conditions and the possibility of controlling and avoiding tax evasion in the taxi industry. Of course we support that. However, we do not think that this is reasonable given the circumstances in which companies should have to perish because exemptions are not extended. This also applies to the other parts with YKB and traffic permits which also cause problems. It is not reasonable to end up in such a situation. This is particularly true in view of the fact that there are currently no equipment available for those companies to buy which are not taxametres. Either you have to ensure that rental agencies get their own legislation, as they called for in their referrals on the extension, or you make sure that they are extended for another year to find a solution for other equipment. It is also necessary to review the technical requirements for equipment so that it lands at a reasonable level and that modern technology is used. For example, it is possible to look at Norway where you have apps. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is again: is it reasonable that the whole rental industry should now perish because it does not extend the exemption for a year?
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-72	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. I note that I did not receive an answer to the question of how Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates view themselves to the Swedish Taxi Association's response on unfair conditions of competition and how it would affect the taxi companies that have behaved. In fact, it is also taxi companies that are going down. Pandemin has pulled away the legs of a lot of business in Sweden. We have made a historic effort – I think it is 325 billion – to find different forms of support, general and specific, to ensure that many will be able to cope with the burden involved. Of course, it also hits hard in the taxi business. To retain a competitive advantage for those who have not made investments should, however, be seen as a potential distortion of competition. Dispenses have still existed for two years. There have been conditions to be able to reset. When it comes to general policy reflection, Maria Stockhaus says that it is not enough just to listen to points of view, but also to make proposals. I would like to remind Maria Stockhaus that we have never had as many proposals in the Swedish Parliament as we have decided during this time, and sometimes after an extremely short time. It's about the credit guarantees for the flight. The bill was presented, and less than 24 hours later it was decided on by the Swedish parliament. The Parliament has been set up in a fantastically good way. We have made a great many decisions to make a transition. It has been in the form of historically many additional amending budgets, not least in the field of transport. It covered public service obligations, aid to airports and emergency airports, public transport aid and maritime aid. The list is long on all the efforts that have been made during this time. In many cases it has also been done in harmony and in cooperation with the opposition. On very many of the occasions I have been on the Transport Committee, the Moderates have not put up a list of more proposals. What I can recall was the airline tax. The vast majority of assessors believe that it would not have been an effective instrument in a situation where there are no flights. I'm going back to the basic question. We tried the opportunity to see if there was commitment and interest in an extended taxameter discount. There was a very clear exuberant majority of the referee who said: No, that is not possible. I think the Swedish Taxi Association's referrals clearly illustrate why. Now Maria Stockhaus once again has to answer the question about Moderates' attitude to what the Swedish Taxi Association says about the risk of distorting competition and giving a competitive advantage in procurement for those companies that have not chosen to purchase a taximeter equipment during this two-year period. They would thus have the opportunity to compete, for example, in public procurement at lower costs than those who have performed. How do the Moderates view that dilemma?
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-80	Madam President, I would like There is a practical question about how the committees work. Things concerning the economy and the budget are dealt with in the Committee on Finance. The proposals we have made from the Moderate Transport Committee have been recorded to our colleagues in the Committee on Finance. It is also there that the Moderates have run the government ahead of them, not least in terms of support for companies, where the government has been very slow. I note that the Minister for Infrastructure does not mention rentals in a word, which is a particular industry. It is not huge in Sweden. But it exists in Sweden, and it is mainly found in the big cities. It's a well-established business. Blaming it for not being good is sloppy. The whole new legislation on taxis is very much about getting access and being able to check that there is no cheating in the new phenomena such as Volt, Uber and things that have come to light. Rents are companies that have been in Sweden for a long time. They behave, pay their taxes and have employees with collective agreements. They're getting caught up in this. It doesn't seem like you read the whole of their referrals. They were very clear that there is a need for special legislation for rental agencies because it is a special type of activity that is now at risk of disappearing completely in Sweden as the exemption is not extended. They operate a different type of activity from taxis. It's a separate business. I come back to the question that we need to review the legislation on rental agencies so that they have a chance to survive and that we need to ensure that they get exemption from the taxametre requirement in 2021 so that we do not lose this historic industry in Sweden that plays an important role.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-85	Madam President, I would like I first note that this time again I did not get answers from Maria Stockhaus about how she views the Swedish Taxi Association's referrals was about competition in the taxi industry and the taxi owners who are doing well. The second is that Maria Stockhaus is among the 271 members who supported a proposal that was on the table. It said: "O m two years we will impose a taxameter requirement. This means that the whole industry and all stakeholders have known for two years that they have had the time to change and be able to cope with the new rules that we are doing to prevent tax evasion. It is about ensuring that we have good financial control of the operations of an industry that has often been affected by some rogue entrepreneurs. Of course, Freys Frey does not belong there. It's a reputable, very established and good company. However, all companies in the whole sector have had over two years to adapt. What the Riksdag did then, and what Maria Stockhaus in that context voted for, was to give a clear message to an industry that had been complaining for a long time that there were unclear rules as to what applied to taximeters. There were regular reports that, in the absence of that regulation, it was in danger of having a part that had tax distortions and thus gained a competitive advantage. Let's get things sorted out. We got a clear set of rules. It can hardly enter into force until the Moderates are there and again suggest that you might not apply what you have voted for. I still find it rather remarkable.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-89	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to introduce restrictions in the vehicle register so that information on persons in sensitive occupational groups is not open to the public. The confidentiality review that I referred to in the reply to Thomas Morell's parliamentary question of 26 November 2020 is partly automated. When a request is submitted to the Swedish Transport Agency, it is checked first if there is a confidentiality mark for the data in the road traffic register. If there is no such information, it will be disclosed. It is this process that enables most people to get data quickly from the Road Traffic Register. It's basically good. However, certain information shall not be disclosed. I would like to stress here the importance of society offering protection against threats and violence to those in need. The Swedish Transport Agency has procedures for classifying information that should not be disclosed in the road traffic register, including if the information belongs to someone with a protected identity. If data with a classification mark is requested, a manual confidentiality check will be carried out in advance of any disclosure. In other words, the current regime allows individuals' personal data to be protected if necessary.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Protected data are important for the professions that there may be an interest in influencing or threatening in any way. Long ago, I had a brother-in-law who was a pilot of the Air Force. The family relationship was covered and surrounded by measures, including myself. It could be a threat from foreign power. At the time it was not as easy as now to get information about people who have sensitive assignments in Sweden, but it was more about hands-on – you came and looked and mapped out what the family situation and such things looked like. You will certainly remember the time when Polish bell vendors went around among defense workers. That time has passed. Now it is much easier; now you can go into a computer and find information about people in sensitive positions. There we have defence workers, police officers, judges, prosecutors and a variety of professions that someone might have an interest in influencing. It can even be about being able to knock out an individual who may be of interest to an organization, foreign power or whatever it may be. We have an open register, and we have an open relationship in Sweden. The principle of public access shall apply. It's basically good. At the same time, however, we must not release data that could harm the interests of the country, and it is very easy to get this information out. If you do a normal beating on the phone or computer on a registration number, it will come up if the vehicle is owned by a private person. Then the information will be blocked. But then you can send a text or an email, and then you get the information. I took that test myself after asking the Government the first time. It took less than 40 seconds, and then I had all the information I needed available and could print it out. Then I can contact that individual if I have bad intentions and threaten or otherwise affect him or her. I talk a lot to drivers who drive animal transports. Both farmers and those carrying out transport for farmers are often threatened. I know a skier who I know is listening to this debate. He feels this is very difficult because he takes the steps he can to protect his staff. There are militant groups, or whatever you call them, who are trying to stop the transports. They threaten the drivers, they threaten the farmers and so on. But he will no longer come, because all the data is available to those who want to access his drivers by simply looking for the registration number of his private car. In this way you can get all the information about where he lives, and you can thus complete a threat to the driver. There is reason to protect individuals from the principle of public access so that those who have bad intentions do not get to the data so easily. I did not receive a clear answer to the question that I put to the Government earlier, nor did I receive a clear answer in the interpellation answer. I am somewhat unsure whether the Government understands the scope of the open register, where information on important people in society can be accessed.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for a question that is important in many ways! I fully understand the extent of the impact it would have on society if access to public registers, data and documents were made much more difficult. I think that the foundation of Sweden's democracy is that we have a fantastic principle of public access. We have the opportunity for people to take part in and review how authorities, politicians and others act. Basically, it has served democracy well that we are not a secret society. However, it must never conflict with the right and duty of society to protect people who are vulnerable. It's absolutely crucial. With all due respect, I think Thomas Morell is aiming a little wrong in this case. The road traffic register is based on the confidentiality test carried out. If you want a protected personal data or a protected identity and see the need for this, it is for the Swedish Tax Agency or the police to contact you – the police when it comes to forged personal data. You can then get a classification mark that the Swedish Tax Agency tests. It may be that you have been exposed to threats or otherwise need protection. Then it is a clear warning signal that you get a classification mark. As the answer shows, the Swedish Transport Agency has a manual routine in such a context, which means that the automated model currently available is abandoned. The reason Thomas Morell received an answer within 40 seconds is precisely because it is an automated routine. I think several of us know – when we are buying cars or otherwise curious – that it is a fairly smooth service today when we can hit the register and find out about ownership conditions or the history of the car. That is good consumer information. But as soon as there is an individual to be protected, they should also be protected. This is done with confidentiality marking and protected population records, which can definitely be obtained if you are exposed to threats. It is a population register that means that you can get protection if you, for example, move away from the municipality so that no one can find you. You can also in special cases, if you are at risk of serious crime against your life, against your health or against your freedom or peace, even get forged personal data. I am sure my colleague, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, can do this much better than I do, but that is what the grounds for the protection of secrecy look like. This is what the Swedish Transport Agency has to base itself on when a trial is then carried out. I imagine that this is the same starting point as regards what we have discussed before – Eniro, Google or address details in general. Of course, there should be protection for individuals who are victims of crime, but it is not done directly in the road traffic register. Protection is done by means of a classification mark and a classification test, and it then has the road traffic register to base it on. Nevertheless, I think it is important to state that it has served Sweden well that we have data that is basically public and accessible and that facilitates the possibility of transparency and, basically, democracy.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! It is good to have openness in society, to have access to tasks and so on. But there is a limit to when to release the data. Brå conducted an investigation a few years ago, and there you can see which occupational groups are exposed to threats. Some have been added since the investigation was carried out; it is quite old. These professions have been very exposed in recent years. It is about politicians, employees in the judiciary, 121 authorities, and employees in other, 71, relevant authorities. This applies to certain professions, 10 to 20 occupational groups, within municipalities and county councils, and journalists and opinion-makers. I have added farmers and animal transporters, who are also vulnerable. Among parliamentary politicians, 59% are in some way threatened. This also applies to food inspectors, police officers, journalists, social security secretaries and penitentiary workers. SVT's review of 24 September 2020 shows that between 30 and 60 per cent of employees in different occupational groups meeting citizens in the most vulnerable authorities have been affected. There's the police, prosecutor, judge and so on. It could be a case of sabotage of cars, murder threats or social media debriefing. 20% are thinking of quitting, that is, changing their profession, because of this. There's the back of the records that are open. After all, anyone who has an evil purpose and wants to gain access to, influence and threaten has all the information available. When it comes to socially important functions such as politicians, police officers, prosecutors and judges, these people should be able to be protected in such a way as to release the principle of public access. There is no reason for anyone but authorities to access this information. I speak from my own experience. I was threatened when I was working in the police. The worst part of that incident was that my wife had been mapped out, because she also worked in the police. You knew exactly what working hours she had and that she was at work just when you called and said the threat. I called down to the officer in charge at the station and said: Don't let her out of there! Then I started a process, and then there were three that had targeted this threat against us. But the scariest thing was that they had so completely mapped out where we lived and how Anki worked. For example, when we were out shopping, I stood for a long time afterwards with my back against a wall to keep track of what was happening around us. This affects deeply. You will remember the prosecutor down in Västra Götaland who had his door blown up by a motorcycle gang. You can get to people easily. With the touch of a button on a computer or a phone, you get the place where they live. It should be considered – and the government must do so – to be able to protect more easily the people responsible for protecting our democracy. Because it is usually those people who are exposed to this.
i-DvgG9LGp37Lmrf3bnanYqX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your commitment! Again, I think it is absolutely crucial to protect individuals who are victims of crime. The point of this interpellation debate is that precisely when it comes to the road traffic register, it goes by applying to the Swedish Tax Agency or to the police. If you get a classification mark there has Transportstyrelsen to actually apply it and thus make it more difficult. Believe me, I am deeply involved in these matters. Not least, I have seen women's shelters working with women who are systematically abused and persecuted by men and find it difficult to get proper protection. Even when public records go in and protect people, even when you give fictitious personal data and in this way try to protect the woman at all costs from a man who hunts her, her relatives and the children, there are unfortunately customer data, account data or unwitting people who disseminate data that can result in the man still getting hold of and perhaps again assaulting or raping a woman who has sought protection. It is incredibly important that people exposed to threats and crimes have this protection. It has also been strengthened, not least during this period of government. But it is also a discussion that I hope and believe that Thomas Morell will also include other parts of the government, because in this interpellation debate it is about the road traffic register. We cannot have separate arrangements in which we make a special examination of the confidentiality of the road traffic register, but it is a matter of dealing with the confidentiality review carried out by the Tax Agency or the police. Basically, it is positive that we have transparency, accessibility and even automated means of finding out quickly, for example, who owns that car or what its nature is. It serves Sweden well. But, of course, the protection of society must also be in place if a person is at risk of being subjected to crime, hatred or threats. This concerns the protection of public data, but it is also a concern when card data, banking data or business data can be used to trace, for example – I choose to take it as an example – women who are subjected to persecution or systematic abuse of men who cannot accept women making their own choices and want to fend for themselves and get away from men who may have tormented them. So there are strong reasons for protecting privacy. However, this does not apply to occupational groups in general. It is individuals who are protected. We are not talking, as I understand it, in Sweden today about all truck drivers or all the police. There is a special order here where a trial is carried out. Then, as Thomas Morell says, this is much more common in some professions. I am the first to have strong sympathy for those who are subjected to hatred and threats. Whether one is affected when driving a animal transport or in other occupations, there must be good opportunities to apply for protection measures or classified information, while, of course, society must ensure by all other means that those who perform important social acts or for other reasons are protected from crime. We do not disagree with that objective. I think it is important for society to act strongly. However, when it comes to the road traffic register, the Swedish Transport Agency has to comply with the rules on confidentiality. As I understand it, it is still a system that works well.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's not quite that simple. I have my own experience. When this happened-- well, it's almost 20 years ago--it wasn't that easy to get your information protected. We finally managed to get secret numbers to the phone, but otherwise we couldn't. Car registration is the easiest way to find out where a person lives. If you can only identify the individual sitting in the car, then you just have to turn on the registration number, and then you have the location right away. It will come within 40 seconds, and then the purpose may be to threaten, influence, frighten, abuse or whatever it is. The professional groups on the legal side and within the Swedish Armed Forces are extremely important for the protection of our democracy. No one should be able to access an individual as easily as by pressing a button on a computer in the space of 40 seconds and then make an action against them. Our democracy and our protection in society must be more important than that. I have written to the Swedish Transport Agency to get my information protected. I was told today, at 8:59 p.m., that it was not possible. So there we are. We cannot protect our important people in society – police officers, prosecutors, judges and so on. It is not so simple, as the Government wishes to claim, that you can have your data protected at the touch of a button. I've tried. It hasn't worked.
i-CgUQgAG9NvVXjiviVttvkb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your commitment! We've spent some time on this, anyway. It is clear that Thomas Morell does not receive a reply from the Swedish Transport Agency because it is the Swedish Tax Agency and the police who have to examine whether personal identity data should be classified. The Swedish Transport Agency has to implement if the Swedish Tax Agency makes a classification mark, so I understand the regulations. The Swedish Transport Agency does not make its own trial. Privacy, protected identity and fictitious personal data are – as I said in my reply and repeated on a couple of occasions – the Tax Agency or the police who try. Then other authorities, including the Swedish Transport Agency, have the task of dealing with this. That's the way we're going. Then it is again fundamentally good for Swedish democracy that we have public access to a lot of data. It has served democracy well. But when it comes to protecting victims of crime, society should be able to react strongly. Whether it's professional groups that carry out socially important activities – defence activities are perhaps the most relevant – or if women who are subjected to hatred, threats and violence by other private individuals must have the protection of personal data, identity and registered address. Of course, other efforts must also be made, not least against those who commit the crimes. One of the perhaps most important efforts is to ensure that those who systematically threaten either women or the judiciary and police representatives also actually receive their punishment. The penalties have also been raised, not least in the case of threats to blue light personnel, not long ago. The same applies to a lot of other threats and other violence in society. We do not accept that in Sweden.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-134	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what initiatives in the field of justice I am prepared to take to make it more difficult for criminals to smuggle dogs into Sweden and to counteract buyers' tendency to acquire dogs that may be suspected of having been introduced illegally in the country and what other measures I am prepared to take to curb the illegal import of dogs into Sweden. First of all, I want to make it clear that it is illegal to smuggle dogs into Sweden and that it is punishable to buy a contraband dog. It is not easy to tackle the problem of the illegal introduction of dogs because there are people who are prepared to go very far to provide animals and mislead potential buyers. It is not uncommon for animals to be provided with false identity and health certificates in order to give the impression that they have complied with the rules in force for the introduction of dogs. At the bottom of the problem is that there is a higher demand for certain dogs than the legal market is able to meet at all times. Without buyers and a market for illegally introduced dogs, there is no profitability and no incentive for people to smuggle dogs. Against this background, the most effective weapon against illegal entry is that anyone who wants to buy a dog has the patience to wait to buy a dog that you are absolutely sure of has been born and grew up under good conditions. The fact that everyone has a good knowledge of the animal welfare and health problems and risks associated with the illegal introduction of dogs and the practices used to deceive consumers is a very important step in combating the trafficking of illegally introduced dogs. All the authorities that have contact with the problem of the illegal introduction of dogs – the State Agriculture Agency, the State Veterinary Institute, SVA, and the Swedish Customs Agency – are working to spread knowledge and information in different ways and in different channels to counteract such trade. For example, there is good and concrete advice on government websites about what to think about in connection with a dog purchase. In order to strengthen the joint cooperation of public authorities in this area, the Swedish Board of Agriculture started its cooperation for 2020, where SVA, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the county administrative boards, the regional infectious diseases doctors and the Swedish Work Environment Agency are represented. It is also important and valuable that many – organisations, companies and individuals – are involved in this issue and work in the way they can for a more secure trade in dogs. We all need to help each other to counter this illegal, unethical and risky trade.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-143	Madam President, I would like During the ongoing pandemic, more people, perhaps as a result of home stay and a desire for companionship, have considered getting a dog. This in itself is very good, but the increased demand has made the waiting times long to get a puppy from one of the breeders registered with the Swedish Kennel Club. Waiting time may be up to a year. As a result, the illegal introduction of dogs has increased enormously. Organized dog smuggling is carried out under unscrupulous conditions. The criminals see that there is a lot of money to be made. A smuggled puppy can be sold for between 20 000 and 60 000 SEK. But the puppies sold are often traumatized because of difficult growing-up conditions as well as travel under terrible conditions to the final destination. The dogs are bred in puppy factories where bitches are forced to be separated for maximum and frequent puppies. The puppies are separated very early from their mothers with subsequent behavioral disorders. Diseases and parasites occur, and rabies is not uncommon. The illegally smuggled puppies are usually sold using social media whose platforms are used to advertise and establish contact with persons seeking a dog. Social media are easy to use anonymously without traceability. Smuggling is carried out with small risks as possible penalties are low. For the smugglers, links to other criminal activities are not far away. A stricter criminal law assessment of the offence would most likely reduce the number of smuggling of dogs. Moreover, if the purchase of smuggled-in dogs became punishable, the threshold for buying a smuggled-in dog would be significantly increased.
i-CagjUGH35eXtuAQwSoarW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! This is an important issue, not least given the developments we have seen in this area. Magnus Oscarsson mentioned in his question that when you look at statistics on how many dogs are seized, you see a sharp rise in 2020 until November – that's the latest statistics we have. It can surely be linked to the coronapendem and people's desire to get a pet – and new opportunities to work from home and solve a situation that you might not have before. I fully agree with Magnus Oscarsson that it is fundamentally positive that more people feel that they can and want a pet. This does not mean, of course, that it is okay, just because the waiting time is long when the demand for buying an animal increases, to instead turn to an illegal channel and buy a dog that is smuggled into Sweden. With regard to what Magnus Oscarsson described about what would be a desirable development in this area, I can only conclude that it is already punishable to buy a contraband dog. I also believe that the scale of penalties in this area is quite high, not least when compared with other crime in this area. It is punishable both by smuggling and by buying a dog with a fine or imprisonment for up to two years or by prison for between six months and six years if the offence is considered serious. Very often, there are reasons to judge these crimes as serious for several reasons, partly because they are part of organised crime and partly because the animals are transported in such a way as to cause them great suffering and so it is cruelty to animals. This means that you can also add such penalties and penalties to any court proceedings. In addition, there is a risk of introduction of infectious diseases into Sweden which may be harmful to public health. So there are a number of different circumstances that make it possible, even if this is already a criminal offence, and although I think that the sanctions themselves may be harsh, there is great reason to take concerted action to make sure to work more systematically to remove this phenomenon – both to bring it down in volume and to remove it. There are three ways in particular that I believe are important in order to achieve this. One is the collaboration between all the authorities responsible in this area in Sweden. The Swedish Board of Agriculture sets out rules for how it should look, and the Finnish Customs has a responsibility to control and so on. Other authorities also have points of contact in this regard, which is why they have set up a collaboration forum to pool their resources and become skilled in this area – they have the Swedish Agriculture Agency, SVA, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the County Administrative Boards, regional infectious disease protection and the Swedish Work Environment Agency. So it's very broad. In this work, a lot of work is being done to spread information, because the fastest and most effective way to deal with this kind of problem is to get the buyer not to choose to buy a smuggled dog. I think there is quite a lot to get here, because I think that most people, at least those we talked about initially who have discovered that this could be a nice opportunity given a new context, are not interested in contributing to a criminal act that also involves great suffering for animals. Dialogue campaigns in social media and other ways are an important part of this, but it is also important to work within the EU. Here Sweden has been very active together with a number of countries – Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany. The animal platform, which is working on this issue among other things, has been initiated. I can come back in my next speech to what I think needs to be raised there.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! This crime is very large, and criminal gangs are making huge amounts of money. What customs gets their hands on today in Sweden is just the tip of an iceberg. We have seen terrible TV spots and documentaries about how dogs are smuggled here to Sweden. It often happens with cars. On one occasion 39 puppies were found under a car seat. You can only imagine the terrible stench in that car. The smuggler is deceiving the buyer. Dogs are often ill and in bad condition, and it is a great cruelty to animals. Unfortunately, the Prosecution Authority is closing cases because this is not a priority. What happens today if dogs are discovered by customs is that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is contacted. The penalty is usually that the smugglers should return the dogs to the country from which they come. That is why I am raising the issue. Does the minister think the smugglers will? I don't think so. It also turns out that what the smugglers do is that they take the dogs with them not to Romania and Serbia, but perhaps to Denmark. They try in another place and hope to have more luck getting in the car, which is packed with puppies. This type of crime must be brought to an end. I think it's great that the Minister talks about different things. But I think it is important – the issue has now been raised both mediated and in other ways – that it actually becomes a legal process so that smugglers are prosecuted. I noted that the Minister said in his reply: In order to strengthen joint cooperation between the authorities in this area, the Swedish Agriculture Agency launched a collaboration forum in 2020, where SVA, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the County Administrative Boards, regional infectious diseases doctors and the Swedish Work Environment Agency are represented. ..................................................... What does this mean in practice? It would be very interesting to know and to get an answer from the minister. Can we now count on strong action against the smugglers? We hope to see that.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-164	Madam President, I would like We can start with the collaboration forum that has been set up. The aim is to pool your resources and to work efficiently and with information and campaigns. I still believe that most people who buy a dog do not want to contribute to this and that they would choose another option if they understood what it is that you are involved in and contribute to by choosing this option. Then there are absolute cases that would arise anyway. Anyone who wants to commit an illegal act usually tries to circumvent the systems. In addition to working with information and information campaigns, we must therefore work to get effective control. It's about registrations and being clear about where to leave tips and so on. And we have to work at European level. Of course, the work we are doing there is done as a nation. But it is also part of the collaboration forum that has been set up that each authority should work with its corresponding authority within the framework of this. It is not least a question of establishing a good network of contacts linked to this. Sweden has been very proactive in raising animal welfare issues at EU level, and we have found a number of countries, as I mentioned earlier, which are like-minded. One of the things that we have got into is an EU animal welfare platform, which deals with these issues. One of the working groups there, which has been set up in turn, is working precisely on pet trade to ensure that there are good procedures and rules for catching it up at EU level. For it is never a nation's problem when this happens. You travel through many EU countries. And a selling country and a buyer country must be involved in this in order for it to become a problem, quite simply. e-commerce platforms have also been addressed at EU level, and they are actively working towards them. They are usually found in global arenas. There is a great deal about dialogue and information. The e-commerce platforms express their lack of interest in participating in illegal activities in this area. They want to spread knowledge and information that makes it clear to the buyer what it is that applies, where you turn and what it should look like in this area. It is also about ensuring that the dogs are ID marked. they must have a veterinary certificate or an EU passport and evidence of valid anti-rabies vaccination must be provided; It should be safe and clear. These are rules that already apply within the framework of the European Union. In Sweden, we also have a rule that all dogs should be labelled and registered in the central dog register. It's something many dog buyers don't really know about. There is also a need for more information and knowledge. So we are dealing with a number of different issues. It is about ensuring that you have good rules, procedures and guidelines. It is about ensuring that they can be controlled and enforced. There I see the great challenge. And it is a question of providing information on the rules and guidelines that apply to those who are primarily buyers and consumers here. There is work going on within this framework in all three areas, but I do not rule out that we will have to take steps further linked to this. I understand that there is a great consensus, both politically and between authorities, that this is something that we absolutely do not want to see. It fertilises organised crime. And if you get dogs along with the system, it means a risk of spreading infection, not least of rabies, which is a disease that we do not have in Sweden and do not want.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-171	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers and an interesting debate. I am raising this issue because it has become a big one. If you talk to those who work with this – customs and others – you can see that this is the tip of an iceberg. They feel it's a toothlessness. That is why we think it is important to try to raise this. I also hear that the Minister wants to take steps further. It would be very interesting if the Minister wanted to tell us what that means. The risk of infection is imminent. It can, in turn, have very serious consequences, just as the Minister was concerned. Dogs that are smuggled in can carry rabies, which Sweden became completely free from 1886. It would be a major public health problem if it came in. What the smugglers do is terrible, but even the buyers have a great responsibility. Buying a smuggled dog must have legal consequences. Today there is a major concern: if a veterinarian suspects that a dog is smuggled in, if the paper or chip for the dog is incorrect, the veterinarian may not report the dog owner – because of the Personal Data Act. I mean, that's wrong. You have to be able to look at it when it comes to smuggled dogs. England has recently introduced a law called Lucy's Law. In short, it means that dogs and cats less than six months old may not be sold by other than the breeder. This may hinder the sale of young dogs from other than the breeder. It is a proposal that I think the government should follow. Perhaps it is one of the steps further, as the Minister spoke about.
i-17722e158f6ad2bf-175	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely prepared to take on board and look further at ways to curb this. I think there is a great deal of consensus that this is something that should not happen, for all the reasons that both I and Magnus Oscarsson have repeated several times in this debate. I have also noted what Magnus Oscarsson mentioned in his concluding speech: that it has been raised from veterinary sources that they would like to be able to report when they suspect that a dog is smuggled in. They can't do that today. The reason is, as Magnus Oscarsson says, that it is against GDPR legislation and the confidentiality that is there. There we have received legal cases that have been tried by individuals who have opposed the fact that veterinarians have just done so, and that is why it is not a possible way forward. On the one hand, I do not rule out looking at how to deal with it in a broader perspective. On the other hand, it would take a long investigation and a change of legislation to obtain such an exemption in place. For me, it is therefore important that we also work in parallel with the tools that we already have. Magnus Oscarsson pointed out that he thinks it is toothless to get reported and convicted for this type of crime. My picture is that there is no lack of legislation or legal basis to frame smugglers or to frame anyone who actually buys a dog. So it is possible to go to prison for up to six years for buying a smuggled dog. It is a high penalty given other crimes. I think it is very much a matter of ensuring that the issue is of sufficiently high status and high enough on the agenda and that people realise the total extent of the problems that these crimes actually involve. For this reason, I particularly thank Magnus Oscarsson and the television and media coverage that has been in this area this autumn. All in all, this contributes to perhaps better application of the legislation that is already in place.
