i-60ae8ec25ab27137-0	Madam President, I would like For decades, the Swedish power system has in practice been fossil-free with a robust production apparatus and good margins regarding transmission capacity that has contributed to a secure supply security. It is something that has served Sweden well and has helped to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. This is now in danger of being changed by forced closures of functioning nuclear reactors, blind confidence in weather-dependent electricity generation, taxes that have been thrown forward as a matter of urgency and knocked away the legs of planned electricity generation, along with a power grid that has not been expanded at a sufficiently rapid pace. We now have a situation where e l prices are slipping apart between southern and northern Sweden and a balance of forces which is the weakest in decades, while at the same time there is no objective of security of supply and there is no agreement between the parties enjoying the majority in this House. It is because of these worrying developments, Madam President, that the Swedish Democrats have asked for this debate on Sweden's electricity supply.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-4	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to debate energy policy here in Parliament. Sweden has historically large electricity surpluses. The record year 2019 was followed up with another year of large electricity exports – exports that push fossil power away in Europe but also helps our Nordic and Baltic neighbours to reduce their dependence from Russia. Sweden has a daily export of approximately 44 gigawatt hours to Finland or about 18 terawatt hours annually. During a ten-year period, Sweden has gone from being a net importer of electricity to becoming a net exporter of electricity. At the same time, the fossil components of Sweden's electricity mix have decreased from 7 terawatt hours to about 1 terawatt hour – a dramatic decline. It is a development that we should be proud of. Wind power will more than double its production from 2019 to 2025. But there are also challenges. We have an effect deficit in southern Sweden, but we are still well placed to compare the impact situation in Europe. Some cities are growing faster than d e n capacities that are often available. The licensing processes for the construction of new lines are too long. But there are solutions to these challenges. We are now making historically large investments in the electricity grids. Over the next ten years, Svenska Kraftnät invests SEK 50 billion in the transmission network, the transmission network. We will shortly be presenting proposals for shorter permit procedures at Parliament's table. At the same time, we are strengthening the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's budget in order to speed up the process. System services markets are growing to create better conditions for a stable electricity system in a cost-effective way. We are developing a hydrogen strategy to create incentives for balancing the electricity system. And we are developing an electrification strategy to prepare the electricity system for a massive electrification of industry and transport. I see in my view that we must plan for at least a doubling of Sweden's electricity production. Sweden is facing a significant electrification of industry and transport. The availability of electricity will be crucial in order to cope with electrification and achieve climate goals, but also in order to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness as an industrial nation. We see how huge investments in energy-intensive industries are planned in northern Sweden. We see how Europe's largest battery factory is being built in Sweden. Why? Because we have access to low-cost renewable energy in a stable way. That is why these large investments are taking place and will take place in Sweden. In our neighbouring countries, the situation is quite different. I welcome the fact that energy policy is now being debated and that there seems to be a great interest in it among the parliamentary parties. I think it would be a strength for Sweden if we could once again agree across the block line and create long-term rules for Swedish industry. But it requires that all parties and parties be able to put the best interests of the country first.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-12	Madam President, I would like My vision and the Moderates' vision is that we will have a strong economic development in Sweden with new companies, new industries and a transformation of society that we combine with a green transition. The way to get there is to phase out fossil fuels and to take steps forward towards fossil-free electricity in considerably larger quantities. Historically, Sweden has had an electricity and energy system that has been a great advantage for Sweden and the Swedish business community, but it is increasingly being tested. There are a number of problems and challenges ahead of us. We have a satisfied Minister for Energy who talks about large electricity surpluses, while there have been a couple of electricity crises in Sweden in recent years. The Minister for Energy usually tells us that we have low electricity prices, which is true. At the same time, however, relevant questions are growing from industry about more testing, accumulated electricity costs and large price fluctuations. Sweden already has the EU's cleanest electricity system. An important challenge for us is not to lose environmental benefits in the future. There are major investment needs in the future. If we are to increase the use of electricity in Sweden by 50, 70 or perhaps even 100%, an incredible amount of money is required. Then the conditions must be right for electricity grids and electricity generation to come. We must also break with the fact that the government parties prefer to phase out nuclear power prematurely without having alternatives to secure the electricity system. And we must break with the inaction of the government, as we are not clearly tackling either short-term or longer-term problems in the electricity and energy markets. We have great opportunities ahead of us. We talk about tens of thousands of new jobs in Norrbotten and other parts of Sweden when you change and develop the Swedish industry. But then we need a different focus on energy policy and change our energy target and use both nuclear and wind power. We must be better prepared if and when a new electricity crisis occurs. We need to have a planning objective in order to take the height of and be able to get to the increased use of electricity. The Minister for Energy urgently needs to set up a power grid investigation so that we do not miss the opportunity to move forward. The electricity market needs to develop and better pay for power and support services. We need to have a target for security of supply. In Sweden, we must point out who is responsible for having electricity in families and companies. There needs to be more research, both on wind power, batteries and nuclear technology. Now it is also time for a new research reactor in Sweden for fourth and next generation nuclear power. We must also clearly cut the time it takes to expand electricity grids and power generation, because it is about taking advantage of the opportunities ahead. We have acted in Parliament before, and we will do so again. But the easiest would be a new government and a new focus on energy policy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-20	Madam President, I would like In recent weeks, Sweden has undeniably experienced an electricity crisis due to bottlenecks in the electricity grids regarding transmission capacity, combined with a significant reduction in power balance with an increase in weather conditions that makes us more sensitive to colder weather conditions. Simplifiedly, we lack sufficient electricity generation when we want to use the electricity in Sweden and are also unable to deliver it within the country where it is requested. The government's handling of this problem has been characterised by naivety and disregard, and the stubbornness of a fool has repeated his mantra that there is no shortage of electricity and that we export more electricity than ever. These submissions are irrelevant when electricity is consumed at the moment it is produced and sufficient power and transmission capacity is required at any given moment for it to work. The consequence if there were to be a shortage in any part of this is that you have just a shortage of electricity, and that does not take account of what it has looked like earlier in the year. The fact that the Swedish Democrats are concerned about this is that the balance of power has deteriorated for every single year that the Red-Green Government has been in power. In its forecasts for the coming years, Swedish grids estimate that it will also continue to deteriorate. Parts of the industry are forced to close when it gets cold and electricity prices are too high, and electricity prices in southern Sweden have a negative impact on competitiveness. Last summer we could see spot prices in southern Sweden that were almost ten times as high as in the rest of the country. The differences have never been so great since Sweden was divided into electricity price areas. Despite the fact that the price of electricity itself was low last year, the number of hours with very high electricity prices has shrunk. They increased by over 400 per cent compared with the last few years. We now have such insufficient capacity in the electricity grid that bread manufacturers cannot expand, ICA dealers do not build new stores and different establishments have to be pitted against each other – and it takes far too long to build away the bottlenecks. Madam President, I would like One prerequisite for daring to move towards electrification is that there is electricity at a competitive price during all hours of the day and all months of the year. The current energy policy orientation risks seriously jeopardising the ambitions of electrifying society. These are housing projects, business start-ups and the transport sector. We regard this development as totally unacceptable.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-28	Madam President, I would like Energy is perhaps the single most important issue of climate change. If Sweden is to be electrified to the extent required, the need for electricity will increase radically in a relatively short time. It places large quantities on expanded production capacity, also because some of today's electricity generation will have reached its life expectancy in 2045. In addition to expanding production and connecting the EU's electricity grid, we need market mechanisms that can cut power peaks and make their use more efficient. Sweden currently has a competitive advantage with low energy prices. But that is not obvious in the future. As solar power and wind power prices fall radically, countries with more hours of sunshine and better wind supply receive greater competitive advantage than Sweden. However, Sweden has a long coast with fantastic wind resources, and of course we will take advantage of them to get large amounts of electricity at low marginal cost. This is a great opportunity that we must capitalize. The energy system of the future is much more flexible where its use is adapted to the really low electricity prices so that we can pick up the big profits. The basic needs of households and industry will be met by hydropower and cogeneration, with good contributions from wind and sun. Of course, storage will play a major role in this. The possibilities in this system are breathtaking, and Sweden will be able to deliver energy services and energy-intensive goods to the whole of Europe. We can really become Europe's green battery and bring home great economic benefits. Madam President, I would like Historically, research has been done twice as much on nuclear energy as on renewables and energy efficiency together. As research efforts on renewables increase, we see how costs go down. We do not see the same on the nuclear side. It is good that it is researched on all types of energy, but it is clear where the potential lies. We need to continue to drive the cost reduction and encourage further research on storage, energy efficiency and pump power and work more with our hydroelectric dams. We need to connect Sweden and Europe much more, and we need to find the solutions that exist. The Center Party has a number of solutions for increased transmission capacity and shorter permit processes. That as the government is lagging behind with reforms is not good enough. If Anders Ygeman wants suggestions, the Center Party has many.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-37	Madam President, I would like In fact, I shall begin by thanking the Swedish Democrats for raising this important issue. I am surprised that those parties who always rely on the market to solve everything almost speak planned economy on the energy issue. Today, Sweden is in a pretty good position, but I do not know if I can say as Government that everything is safe and good. This may be the case in terms of the number of kilowatt hours produced, but I agree that there is a bottleneck in terms of getting the effect where it is needed. Every party that has been up before me has raised the electricity grid as the biggest problem, and here our government business is the same kale drinker as the other network owners. They have rested on the male even though they have known about the problem of the bottleneck at Gävle between price range 2 and 3. It's been known for 15 years. I don't know who's gonna wear the dog head for this, but they've known about it. Regional network owners are also part of the problem. It is not only about us not getting electricity from northern Sweden to southern Sweden, but the problem is also regional. In fact, we have a market there when liberalising which is a monopoly market that does not work. For ten years, net owners have been able to pick up two thirds of any price increase and distribute it to the parent company. From there it has gone to the producers, who in turn own the same network. Consumers in Sweden have contributed to a good life of network owners. I hear where the debate is going. For example, it is claimed that production teams in Sweden have been closed down by political means. I don't agree with that. I can't get it together. We have said that we want to achieve 100% renewable. There was an agreement on energy issues, which I would have liked to have been involved in, because I think it was good. I do not agree with the fact that political means would have closed down. I agree with the Government that it is important that we have a broad agreement on energy and defence issues and on how the Swedish forest should be managed so that we do not have to dwell on this with the government and keep it on the agenda every time.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-44	Madam President, I would like The challenges, but also the opportunities for Sweden's electricity supply, are many, and that is why the issue is so urgent that we have this debate in the Swedish Parliament today. We can line up a number of examples where businesses and industries today cannot expand and see growth in their companies and where jobs are at stake because there is not enough electricity reaching all the way. Let me take a concrete example. At home in my own municipality of Täby, an ordinary Ica Maxi store has been waiting for five years because there was no capacity in Stockholm's electricity network. And there are more similar examples, not only in Stockholm and Mälardalen. Skåne is also one of the vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like On several occasions we have heard from the government that there is an electricity surplus in our country on an annual basis, and thus they seem satisfied. As true as it is that we are exporting electricity and that fossil-free electricity from wind power has increased sharply in recent years, it is that we are all too often forced to import fulel into southern Sweden because electricity generation, that is, nuclear reactors, has been decommissioned. It is also true that we have a very serious power deficit and that we will soon have an even worse situation when the electricity from the north can not be transferred to the south because it will be needed precisely in northern Sweden. So far, I have just talked about what it looks like right now, but without a secure electricity supply, investments such as LKAB, SSAB, H2 Green Steel, Northvolt and other actors will not be able to do so, despite cheers from everyone. Without nuclear power, we will be completely dependent on imports for the thousands of hours that there is too little wind. Alternatively, we kindly ask the industries to cut down their production every time the wind changes. In addition to constant threats to nuclear power, the government has woken up far too late with regard to the EU's new financing threat to hydroelectric power and has also come up with a number of new charges that threaten cogeneration. Worse still, the current energy policy is causing concern to the business community, which could lead to the inability to carry out several green industrial initiatives. Madam President, I would like It is time to redo and do the right thing on the energy issue. We want to see a planning target for electricity of 250 terawatt hours and doubling of electricity grids and believe that two more reactors will be needed in the near future. The Christian Democrats are prepared to contribute to a stable and secure policy that builds a sustainable future for our country, in terms of both business, households and our climate.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this debate, which is extremely urgent. Not only do we have a situation today in Sweden where parts of the country do not get the electricity and energy they need during parts of the year, but we also know that in the future we will need more industry, more growth and more things produced to cope with the climate crisis. Madam President, I would like It is good when Sweden's industry invests in fossil-free steel and iron, for example, but electrification will require much more electricity and energy than we have today. We have to plan for the future. We in the Liberals believe that it is the overarching energy policy objectives, which deal with security of supply, socio-economic efficiency and sustainability, that should be the leader in energy policy. This means that the energy produced and used in Sweden must be fossil-free but have an acceptable environmental impact. Madam President, I would like For us liberals, it goes without saying that we should not take a stand for or against a type of energy that is fossil-free. We believe that there should be a level playing field for all fossil-free forms of energy and that we politicians should steer towards the overall goals, but that the choice of fossil-free energy must be technologically-economic rather than political. We should not be guided by political blindfolds and ideas about what kind of energy is nice or ugly or what we like or dislike. As long as it is fossil-free, it fits in with the overall goals. And, Madam President, if, on ideological grounds, one renounces one of the fossil-free energy laws, one renounces a tool in the green transition. This will result in a less efficient system and less effective policies. Madam President, I would like As a liberal, I am always confused when parties who claim to want to safeguard the rules of the market actually want to engage in distortive subsidies and govern things that it is not really the role of politics to govern. We shall ensure that there is a level playing field, but we also have a responsibility not only to talk about the simpler things, such as energy and efficiency, but also to take the main responsibility for the reliability, robustness, voltage stability, frequency stability and the ability to cope with major crises. This must be the main responsibility of politics.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-57	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to debate energy issues. In fact, I find it sad that we are getting caught up in the debate on the reality statement. I'd rather have focused on what we're going to have in the future. It becomes more constructive and interesting. But if it spreads fake news and distorted images of reality, you still have to say as it is. We've never produced so much electricity before. In fact, we have turned a large electricity deficit into a large electricity surplus, corresponding to approximately one Baltic State's electricity consumption in deficit and three Baltic States' electricity consumption in surplus. This has been done through an almost constant flow from Sweden to Finland. This has led, among other things, to Finland becoming less dependent on Russian fossil energy. This has also been done through a five-fold increase in electricity exports to Poland. In fact, in February we exported 30 times more electricity to Poland than we imported. Sweden has the EU's lowest costs for industrial electricity. In recent years, Sweden has been one of the countries in the world with the highest rate of investment per capita in new fossil-free electricity production. There has been a huge expansion based, in particular, on renewable electricity production. We have the EU's most sustainable and stable electricity system. There is no doubt about it. In my next speech, I will focus a little more on the future. But it is important to note that we have a very good electricity system in Sweden and that we do not have an electricity crisis, because it is simply wrong in substance.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-63	Madam President, I would like I was going to split my post into two parts. First of all, I shall make a few comments on what has been said earlier in the debate. It sounded to some of the debaters that fossil emissions from Sweden's electricity production are increasing. It's just the opposite. Fossil emissions from Swedish electricity generation are now one-seventh of what they were ten years ago. Rejoice that we have made a great climate effort in Sweden! I think it was Mattias Bäckström Johansson who mentioned Holmen as an argument for nuclear power. You might think so. Holmen owns 21 hydropower plants and 127 wind turbines. They own 50% of their energy production. Over the next few years, they will invest SEK 1.3 billion in wind power. Mattias Bäckström Johansson can think about how much they will invest in nuclear energy. They cut their production to sell the electricity they produce to others, to make it more profitable on the market. It makes perfect sense if you have this opportunity. Both Mattias Bäckström Johansson and Christian Democrats' representatives mention Ica Maxi in Täby. Maybe you should twig over to the Ica dealer and ask how it went. When he sent in his application, he got energy. Therefore, perhaps we can remove this example from the debate. I think the whole discussion that we have had today is good but a little strange. There is a bombastic difference in reality. Maybe you have to take that as a government. The government paints in a little brighter colors, and the opposition paints in a little darker colors – fine. Maybe it would have sounded different if the roles had been changed. But when we get to the actual measures, it becomes almost a little entertaining. The opposition's representatives will then be elected as representatives of the government. They read aloud from the government bill. They read aloud from the press releases and debate articles that the government has written. And it is good that you welcome the government's policy. We have different reality images, but we seem to have about the same suggestions on how to move forward. You think, as the opposition usually does, that it is a little too little and a little too late. It's something you can treat yourself to when you're in opposition. The question that Swedish business and Swedish voters have to ask is: If the differences here are so small in practical politics, and if the government is still prepared to settle, why is there not the will to settle? Why can we not agree on the long-term rules for Sweden's energy production and Sweden's industry? You listed a number of the now known industrial projects. I can assure you there are many more. And they are asking of us long-term rules and for us to come to an agreement, not something short-term.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-71	Madam President, I would like Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman talks about the fact that we have historical electricity surpluses and low prices. That is quite correct. In parallel, we have local capacity problems that have caused it for companies and for important social investments. The government was even forced to resort to emergency measures. It was a satisfied Minister for Energy who stood here and talked about that we do not have problems and that we have large surpluses. Let me quote: is political gibberish as Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman talking about the fact that we have a national electricity surplus on an annual basis and one way of turning a blind eye to the large and rapidly growing problems we have with security of supply and price fluctuations. This was said by a representative of the company Kemira. We are very concerned and frustrated about the development of the electricity market that is becoming acute. The development of huge price fluctuations and the risk of mere shortages is untenable for us and others in industry, which depend entirely on the security of electricity supply and internationally competitive prices. This is said by a representative of another company.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-76	Madam President, I would like Maybe this is the stuff of finished lines. I'll read you what I said. There are challenges. We have power deficits in southern Sweden. Some cities are growing faster than there is capacity for. The licensing process for the construction of new lines is too long. That is what I said in my speech to the House, nothing else. Of course, it is true that we have price fluctuations. But let me ask Lars Helmered: Does he mean that we should not price fluctuations on the market? Does he mean we shouldn't have a price that reflects supply and demand? If so, what are Lars Helmered's measures to get this fixed electricity price? Then we should be honest and say that 70 – 80 percent are not caught by this electricity price because they have fixed electricity prices. And those with variable electricity prices have it to get a lower cost and over the past year have had the lowest electricity price in five years. Many industries have been able to benefit from this very low electricity price, both those who have chosen variable prices and those who have chosen fixed prices.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-81	Madam President, I would like There are two things that I find problematic. One is that I think that the Minister for Energy does not really take the problems that exist seriously. When industries that raise questions about them can expand and invest and are faced with a concern, such as the bakery in Malmö or the Ica dealer in Täby, then I think the Minister is waving this away when he says that there is no cause for concern. That's not really the case. There is a need for greater Seriosity in this regard. The second point is that political reforms are needed. The problem is that Anders Ygeman has not set up an electrical grid investigation. He has given a mandate to look at so-called support services, which is a marginal change, rather than a major market review. The truth is that Anders Ygeman has not made a single concrete proposal that can shorten and cut the times it takes to expand electricity grids and power generation. What is required if we are to secure the electricity supply for LKAB, Northvolt, H2 Green Steel and companies in southern Sweden is a reform tempo that we do not see in the government today. That's the big problem.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-84	Madam President, I would like This is gonna be very weird, Lars Helmered. I went to Pågen, presented a joint initiative, met with the CEO and we agreed. You're saying the Ica dealer doesn't have power. I checked with the network provider. The Ica dealer's got power. You're saying I'm waving this away and it's not serious. We still need to be able to relate to reality and the truth, Lars Helmered. It is the privilege of the opposition to say that it is too little and too late. I'll buy it. But if we leave this rhetoric behind, why should we not be able to agree on the direction for Sweden? If the difference is not greater than this, why should we not be able to conclude a new energy agreement that shows the long-term rules for the industry that has now chosen to invest in Sweden, which is very pleasing, but above all for all the industry that will come and invest in Sweden? Sweden needs long-term rules of play, not political bickering.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-88	Madam President, I would like Nuclear power plays a central role in our electricity supply as it is planable and fossil-free. These are the characteristics that are necessary if we are now to be able to seriously reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. The UN Panel on Climate Change also stresses the importance of expanding it globally. It has also grown around the world for every single year that the red-green government has been in power. Nuclear power also has strong popular support in Sweden, where two out of three Swedes are in favour. This also applies to the majority of the voters of the Social Democrats. Despite this, the trend has been the opposite in Sweden. For example, the government has ordered Vattenfall to stop work on replacement reactors, and now new nuclear technology is being developed abroad instead of in Sweden. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask Anders Ygeman whether he will support the development of the next generation of nuclear power in Sweden or whether we here too will risk falling behind.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-90	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by agreeing with Mattias Bäckström Johansson that nuclear power has a central role in our energy supply. We share that view. In the case of research funds, it shall be decided by other than the Minister for Energy. We have presented a historically large research budget, and nuclear research can compete with all other types of energy. The problem for nuclear power is not politics, but the problem for nuclear power is the evolution of the cost of new nuclear power. That is why nuclear power is suffering from major problems around the open and free world – in the democratic world, not in China or North Korea. In countries such as Finland, France and the United Kingdom, nuclear power is 10 to 20 years late and multiplys its costs. It costs hundreds of billions of dollars. That is the problem of nuclear power.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-93	Madam President, I would like Of course, policies influence in terms of what signals you send about what developments you want to see in substance. I note that, for the applications relating to nuclear research that have been received in the near future, there are no appropriations granted at all. It does, of course, play a role in the development that is being called for. I have a question linked to how we see our production apparatus developing. We see an increase in weather dependence. Of course, we can have low electricity prices seen over a whole year, but we may be less valiant because we do not use electricity all year round, but at any given moment, because it is a product that cannot be stored. Something I mentioned earlier is that the number of hours of electricity with very high electricity prices is increasing rapidly, despite the fact that we had low electricity prices last year. We could see that those hours of the previous year increased by over 400 percent compared to the previous years. I would therefore like to ask whether the Government is not concerned about the negative impact this may have on the competitiveness of industry. Or does he think, as a government colleague in the Green Party, that a more volatile price is good for Swedish industry?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-96	Madam President, I would like Let me just say once again that nuclear research must compete with other energy research on equal terms. I understand that Mattias Bäckström Johansson has the same opinion there and does not believe that political decisions should govern academic research. If it is different, he – in another context, when he has the possibility of further reply – will have to inform me about this. Is it good or bad with a volatile electricity price, and is the Government worried about volatility here? I am not so worried about the last year, because it has been an exceptional year with coronas and extended audits of nuclear power. But it is clear that the price of electricity will be mobile, just as the price is in all other markets, and I believe that Mattias Bäckström Johansson is also a supporter of that. If he is not, it is a completely different energy system from what we have today, and the cost of it is a couple of hundred billion dollars. I don't think Mattias Bäckström Johansson wants to pay that.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-98	Madam President, I would like I was going to take this opportunity to highlight something that the Government said in his speech and which I also heard him say the other day, namely that we should aim to halve the time of the permit process. It is extremely welcome, and I think it is news that has not been given sufficient attention. This is something that the Center Party decided on already at its party meeting in 2019 and that the Prime Minister has now adopted. I welcome that. On the other hand, I still lack information on how this is intended to be done. The gravely delayed bill on the network permits and the Online Concession investigation does not come nearly all the way in this – unless it is some individual networks the Government means, but I hope it refers to the whole process. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Government what it is you intend to do, concretely, in addition to setting a goal.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-100	Madam President, I would like I fear that time will not be enough, but I will mention a number of measures. I will admit that I have not been informed about the decisions of the Centre Party, so I must also admit that I have not taken the inspiration from there. However, it is a good decision, and I welcome it – which means that we have a consensus in that area too. We will present the proposals from the Online Concession Investigation, and it will reach a bit along the way. SVK, Swedish power grid, will change its process to consult. It has so far saved about a year in the parts where it has been done. We will have electricity plans with municipalities and county boards to be able to point out already in advance where the power lines should go. We have to pick up the queues at the Energy Market Inspectorate, which is why we have increased their budget. The government, too, must be better at dealing with the appeals that are being made, so that it can go faster. A number of other measures will also need to be taken, but here we have a start to what is needed.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-104	Madam President, I would like I fear that these measures will not be enough. To change SKK's consultation, which is at all one of the most criticised measures, the Government has not been prepared to do so in the past. When it comes to transparency, for example, SKK is, to put it bluntly, appalling. They don't want to account for their calculations. There is therefore a need for radically changed measures here. What is needed are also new agreements, for example around the land and land lease. Today they expropriate land and walk like a steamroller in many places. We also need to make sure that we use the existing wiring streets and bury cable wherever possible. We also need to ensure that we get a planning target for Swedish power grids so that they actually take a little higher in their planning, instead of just planning on forecasting as they do today. There are a number of additional measures that need to be taken. The measures mentioned by the Minister will simply not be enough if we are really to halve times.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-107	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first line, I agree that more action is needed. We have a number of such measures that we are looking at carefully, and I welcome the fact that Rickard Nordin and the Center Party have other proposals for action. Some of them, I believe, are in danger of extending rather than shortening the time and making this more expensive, rather than making it cheaper. However, I am prepared to seriously consider any measure that might shorten the construction of new pipelines. Basically, it's about getting an understanding at each stage because electricity lines are needed for us to get electricity. This understanding has been inadequate; I believe that virtually all Swedish municipalities have hindered new electricity lines, and many authorities have taken a very long time. It is time to shift this so that we can build Sweden strongly for the future. I won't say that one country is built with electricity, because others have before me – with worse results – but electricity is important for the future community building.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-109	Madam President, I would like It is not enough to produce electricity when the weather is beautiful and when the wind blows. For industry and for Sweden's competitiveness, electricity is necessary. Today's electricity market, which is a so-called energy-only market, ensures that the energy production being built is the cheapest. It is good for a country that can now expect a double use of electricity in 2045. All reports produced in 2020 land at around 200 terawatt hours. In addition, we can add LKAB's strategy, which talks about 55 terawatt hours, and the new H2 Green Steel, which lands at 12 terawatt hours. So it is a total of almost 270 terawatt hours, or twice as much as we use today. However, the electricity system needs more than just energy production to function. Power is also required, i.e. electricity is there when it is needed, and system services and electricity networks are needed. How does the Minister of Energy intend to ensure that the future electricity market rewards the most cost-effective solutions as a whole?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-112	Madam President, I would like Firstly, we will do so by gradually phasing out subsidies to various types of energy. We have, of course, taken the first important step by phasing out the green certificates after those forms have become profitable on the market. Secondly, we shall do so by greatly expanding the system services markets so that we reward what is really being contributed to the energy system. If I am to say a third point, it is of course the electrification strategy that the government has developed, which involves having a planning horizon towards 2040 – 2050, which Camilla Brodin expressed. We seem to agree on the target. We need to plan for about a doubling of electricity use in Sweden. One should remember that we have the top in Swedish electricity use 20 years behind us, so some will probably be able to happen through efficiency efficiency.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My question is direct: does the Minister not intend to subsidise the planned offshore wind energy in the future? As it sounds a little bit in the media right now, this is exactly what the government is planning.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-117	Madam President, I would like I'm a man who keeps his word. After all, the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats have agreed in the Energy Agreement to abolish the nuclear impact tax, and we did so. Our parties agreed in the energy agreement to change the waste management fee and the insurance for nuclear power so that it would be cheaper for nuclear power, and we did. The Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats agreed in the Energy Agreement to abolish the accession fee for offshore wind. That's what we're gonna do. We do this in a modified form so that the ocean wind, which is the most useful in the energy system, can dampen the need for transmission from southern to northern Sweden and so that we can give maximum dividends in our energy system at the absolute lowest cost to network customers.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-119	Madam President, I would like When I made my speech about being technology-neutral, about the rules of the game being technology-neutral and about not subsidising individual types of energy or being for or against individual types of energy, Minister Ygeman sat and nodded and smiled and looked to agree. But, Madam President, the reality is that the Social Democrats often talk about 100% renewable energy, thus excluding one of the fossil-free types of energy that is most often debated in this House, that is, nuclear energy. The truth is also that the Social Democrats are making strong progress with large subsidies for offshore wind power. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether Mr Ygeman can answer whether he believes that the policy of the Social Democrats is precisely technology neutral and does not subsidise or exclude individual fossil-free forms of energy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-122	Madam President, I would like Sometimes politicians are accused of giving winding or sweeping answers. There is no need for any winding or sweeping answers to this question. The answer, Joar Forssell, is yes. Joar Forssell used the term 100 percent renewable, which comes from the energy agreement. I have to say that I think I have never used this expression without also saying the other line, namely that this does not exclude nuclear power. The Energy Agreement made it possible to renovate and extend existing nuclear power lifetimes as well as to build new nuclear power at the sites where reactors have existed in the past. For the sake of honesty, let me say: 100% renewable, but no stop for nuclear power and new reactors.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-125	Madam President, I would like The overall objectives of Swedish energy policy, which are of course about cost efficiency, security of supply and sustainability, have been supplemented with, for example, the target of 100% renewable energy with the energy agreement, which we have not supported. Complementing with an objective which effectively excludes any of the tools, it becomes more difficult to achieve the headline targets. If you remove a tool from the toolbox, it is simply harder to focus on the three overall goals, and you lose one of the tools you could have used. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the huge subsidies for offshore wind proposed by the Social Democrats are a departure from the fact that we should not subsidise individual types of energy. It is also a departure from technology neutrality. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that the policy of the Social Democrats has meant that nuclear power has not been allowed to play with the same rules as other types of energy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-129	Madam President, I would like No, Joar Forssell, that's not it. Nuclear power has the best economic conditions since nuclear power was built in Sweden. This is actually the result of the energy agreement that was concluded. Ulf Kristersson stated after the energy agreement was concluded that he had saved nuclear power in Sweden by significantly reducing its costs. If this is true or false, I leave it in the eye of the holder, but I can see that that was the case. The Left Party chose to remain outside the energy agreement precisely because they thought it was far too nuclear-friendly, so they agreed in some sense with Ulf Kristersson's view. The relief that nuclear power had there corresponds to the fact that it also invests in the introduction of hydro power because it brings system benefits. I would not be surprised if the system benefit eventually even exceeded the reduction in the connection fee that might be the case.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-132	Madam President, I would like The mining company LKAB has huge plans for Norrbotten. There will be billions of billions of dollars invested that can provide a lot of new jobs in fossil-free production. This is one of many initiatives both in northern Sweden and in the rest of the country. LKAB says that they will use as much electricity as is used for four months in Sweden, and this somehow puts the finger on what we are talking about if we are going to have an economic development and a green transition. Reforms and decisions are needed in the future. How does the government face this? The government chooses, Madam President, to phase out Ringhals 1 without having any alternative to secure the function in southern Sweden. Crisis packages were set up to deal with the situation in Skåne and Stockholm. The government did not want to evaluate this, but we forced it on the part of the Riksdag. The government has not produced new proposals for electricity grids and markets; for example, an inquiry into electricity grids should be launched immediately. The government has still not put forward a single concrete proposal during this term to shorten and cut the processing times for obtaining permission to expand new electricity generation or new electricity grids. That's not good enough. What should be done, Madam President? We should make sure that the energy target is changed so that we do not have a discussion. Instead, it should be said that we should use both nuclear power and renewable energy. We must ensure that we are better prepared if or when the next crisis comes, and we must put in place a planning target for increased electricity expansion. The electrical network investigation must be launched immediately. The electricity market must be developed; it must not be just a matter of small tasks. We must also have a target for security of supply and point out someone in Sweden who is responsible for the electricity being there for families and companies. We must make sure that we research all relevant power types and ensure that the time is now ripe for the next generation of nuclear power with a smaller reactor that can be tested and developed in Sweden. We also need to cut and shorten the processing times for new electricity grids and new electricity generation. Then we can take the way forward for LKAB and everyone else.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-143	Madam President, I would like I can say that I agree with 90% of what Lars Helmered said – perhaps even a little more. I think it is in the Chamber about that; we agree with a great deal of what the others are saying. I am pleased that Lars Hjälmered reads out the bill list, press releases and things that the government has done and that he takes it as moderate politics. But I have a question to ask Lars Helmered. If it is the case that we agree on so much and if we see that the basic driving force is the climate change and the need for a lot of electricity over the next 20 to 30 years for Swedish industry and Swedish transport, should it not be possible to put aside the 5% of the things we do not agree on in order to be able to agree on 95% of the things in energy policy in the future? I believe that Swedish industry and Swedish energy investors would welcome it.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-146	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, I and the Moderates have made sure to talk with other parties in order to find solutions. For example, we stopped what we thought was a bad electricity network proposal from Anders Ygeman. We gathered a majority to call for an evaluation of the so-called crisis packages because we felt that we had to be prepared if or when the next crisis came. I am happy to continue this dialogue in Parliament and in other forms. But then, Madam President, it is also a matter of substance. Let me take a concrete example: the energy objective. It is quite true that it says 100% renewable today, adding that this does not exclude nuclear power. In practice, however, the discussion at both public authorities and in society has only come to be about 100% renewable. The whole thing has not been interpreted. Then I say, let's get this straight! What we should be focusing on is the freedom of fossils. That is why we want to change the Swedish energy target. A research study from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise also shows that 100 percent renewable is significantly more expensive than 100 percent fossil-free. It is therefore a matter of substance, Madam President.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-149	Madam President, I would like It was 400 – 500 words in two minutes from Lars Helmered, but I didn't get the answer to the question. Is Lars Helmered prepared to put aside the prestige and settle long-term rules of the game for Swedish industry, Swedish industry and Swedish energy investors who can create this security forward? No matter how much Lars Hjälmered beats his chest over having been involved and helped us evaluate the joint initiative, it does not create the long-term rules for Swedish energy producers and Swedish industry.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-150	Madam President, I would like I can take it one more time and slowly: we are prepared to continue talking with all the parties in Parliament to find long-term and good solutions for Swedish energy policy. I think that we did so when it came to the electricity grid proposal, which was simply not good enough, and put another one on Parliament's table. I think we did so when we demanded that we actually evaluate the emergency packages that had been launched in order to learn lessons and stand better equipped forward. I note, Madam President, that we have put a concrete proposal on Parliament's table to change the energy target to 100% renewable. We have proposals that would substantially shorten and cut the time it takes to invest in new electricity generation – to name just two concrete examples. I can sit down next week with the Minister for Energy and see how we can salvage this through the Swedish Parliament, if the will really exists. This far it has not existed from the government parties. But I am happy to continue a dialogue with the other parties on this and other important aspects of energy policy here in Parliament.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-153	Madam President, Mrs Helmered. It's a bit fun sometimes to think about how different parties react on different issues. I get the feeling that the Moderates are talking today about protecting nuclear power from the vicious logic of the market because it does not bear its own costs. Yet it is being driven very hard that it should be the solution. I don't have a problem with that. I agree that nuclear power is important today. It fills its role. But repeating a lie several times does not make it the truth, as when one claims it is politics that has shut down Ringhal's reactors. I may have missed something, but then someone has to teach me why. Vattenfall itself has said that it is not good to invest in independent core cooling. My question is therefore: are the Moderates behind a planned economy or a market economy in terms of electricity supply?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-155	Madam President, I would like It will of course be financed on a market basis in our electricity and energy systems. After all, our electricity and energy market is a regulated market. As far as Ringhals 1 is concerned, something can be right for the company but bad for society. In Vattenfall, as in any other company, it is the owner who decides, and the owner is in this case the government and ultimately the Riksdag. Then one comes to that discussion: As it was, the future of Ringhals 1 could have been changed by the government. It could also have been changed with parliamentary decisions, for example when we last had this in the Committee on Economic Affairs in November. Then I think that when, among others, the Left Party chose to vote in favour of not taking the initiative to see if we could push the reactor further, with the benefits it would bring for climate and stability, it will be a political decision. That is the starting point for me in the whole thing. Beyond this, I mean that we should treat all types of energy equally. That is why we want to see a change of energy target. We also want to be able to research everything that is relevant and that future nuclear power should be an option – not that it will be built per se but that there is an opportunity for it in the future.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-159	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for the answer so far. Lars Helmered mentioned in his speech LKAB. I've been following them closely. I've been following all the other companies. It's about over 80 terawatt hours only in the steel-related investments that we're talking about. It's about hydrogen production. What's the Moderates' picture? Should hydrogen be produced in a volatile market where prices are very low? I myself have electric panels and got this summer 19 øre per kilowatt hour when I sold. There's no way to do that. Is Helmered's view that nuclear power would contribute to cheaper electricity to produce hydrogen for the major investments we are talking about? Is it the land-based wind power we are going to use, which today produces hydrogen for less than 30 øre per kilowatt hour, or is it nuclear electricity, which we know will cost threefold if not more?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-162	Madam President, I would like I think Birger Lahti has a very important point here. What both the companies, LKAB and others, and our society can benefit from in the future, are the low prices of land-based wind power, in this case, which potentially brings enormous benefits if you are to produce hydrogen and use industrial processes. Overall, you will get a production cost, or a total cost for the company, which is very competitive. Of course, we will benefit from that. I see that what it's all about is having a mix of different types of energy in a system where you can take advantage of the economic benefits of wind power, not least. Then you need other parts of the energy system that create stability, where nuclear power is one among several components. Beyond that, Madam President, we must not forget that we have an important hydropower debate ahead. There is new legislation under way where everything will be reviewed over the next 20 years. It is of great importance that the government steers up so that we do not chance off hydropower. We must also move forward on this.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-165	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for a very good speech. It is no secret that the Moderates and Liberals are very close in energy policy and in the view that growth and industry are important parts of helping us out of the climate crisis. My question is about the subsidies proposed by the government for offshore wind power. They were part of the energy agreement. The Moderates were present at the time but have stood outside. The Energy Agreement no longer exists. Now all market players considering investing in offshore wind power are considering whether or not the subsidies proposed by the government will exist in the future. It is clear that in Sweden the answer of the Moderate Party in this question will often be very important. So the question to the Moderates is: Is it behind the government's proposal to subsidise offshore wind power?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-169	Madam President, I would like The answer is that we do not support this. The energy agreement we signed literally stated that these connection charges should be abolished. Then this came to be investigated gradually. When we make an overall assessment of this, we think that it costs more than it tastes. If, in practice, we have phased out other subsidies with the electricity certification system and have no other major subsidies to talk about, then I think we should try to keep this as the main line. We sometimes talk about phasing out subsidies and being technology neutral. In practice, we are not always 100%, but at this point we do not want to introduce something that could cost a lot of money. Madam President, I would like It can also be seen from the government's referral memorandum that even the government itself cannot appreciate whether it costs little or very much money. I share the great concern that exists in the energy market that it may undesiredly upset the rules of the game.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-173	Madam President, I would like This is an important message to those who are considering investing in this and are counting on the huge subsidies proposed by the government. In a possible future change of government, it is important to know where the Moderates stand on this issue. Madam President, I would like I interpret Lars Hjälmered's message to those who are thinking of investing in offshore wind power, as they expect large, broad subsidies from the Swedish parliament and government, such as that those subsidies will not come from a future moderate-led government or, for that matter, a liberal-led government where the Moderates are included. I thank Mr Helmered for the message to those who are currently considering investing in the wind power that the current government is planning to subsidise.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-175	Madam President, I would like I was clear about the economics. But I can also be clear about the purely technical and systemic aspects. The technology as such is one of several that I find incredibly exciting, and it has enormous potential for Sweden. Madam President, I would like I and the Moderates know a scepticism that we should potentially waste tax money on this, but I want to be clear that it does not mean that we are against technology. It's just the opposite. I don't think the Liberals are either. We see it as part of the fossil-free palette ranging from nuclear power to hydropower and all the way to also being able to exploit and exploit these possibilities. There are certainly things we can do when it comes to planning and building rules, defence management and several other issues to make it easier for many of the projectors around the country. Let's take a closer look at that. On the other hand, we are extremely sceptical about subsidies for nothing.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-178	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to build small modular reactors in Sweden. For them to have any effect, it requires that a lot of people are built. One sees that it should be like an anthill over Sweden's surface with small modular reactors. In fact, they have based their play on Janne Wallenius' research. He believes that it will take 150 small reactors to replace today's nuclear power – an anthill over Sweden's surface. Does Lars Hjälmered think that those who live in Kungälv, Sandviken, Lerum and so on want a nuclear power plant in their urban area?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-180	Madam President, I would like I believe that ordinary families in Sweden like companies want a secure electricity and energy supply, at a reasonable cost and with little environmental impact. That's the whole point of departure. As far as nuclear power is concerned, it is for me that we should be clear with an energy target and that we should use all the fossil-free possibilities, the whole palette. That is what I think we should change to, so that it becomes clear. We're going to do research on all the relevant stuff. I and the Moderates are not saying that such a reactor will be built in Sweden immediately. We think you should have an option, an opportunity forward. If it is technically and economically possible to build on the Ringhal area or in Oskarshamn, it would be a great opportunity to combine it with offshore and land-based wind power and hydropower. What we are opposed to is dogmatism, from the Green Party, for example, where nuclear power is excluded in advance. You're almost inherited from nuclear power. On the contrary, in view of the major climate threat, we should use all the possibilities if we are to have the security of electricity supply and counter the climate threat.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-184	Madam President, I would like We already have secure electricity supply in Sweden. All forecasts show that in the next ten years we will have a larger surplus and that electricity prices will continue to be low and even lower. It is therefore not an argument in this debate. I have to come back to the places that will have a nuclear power plant next door with Lars Helmered's policy. The Moderates' proposal is that the legislation should be redesigned so that nuclear power plants can be built everywhere. The reason we have a system to limit the number of places is that we should keep track of nuclear safety in Sweden. We'll keep an eye on the risk of radiation and so on. We shall also keep an eye on the risk of terrorist attacks on nuclear power plants. The problem with Moderate politics is that you want to dilute this on the entire surface of Sweden. This will, of course, increase the risk of accidents and terrorist attacks. Doesn't Lars Helmered see the problems with his own politics?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-187	Madam President, I would like What families and companies in Sweden need is security of electricity supply. Then we need to use everything from nuclear power all the way to wind power and everything in between. What becomes problematic is when the Green Party says in advance: We should not have nuclear power in Sweden. There's a big difference between the Green Party and the Center Party. The Center Party, which is actually against nuclear power, still sees it as a transitional technology. That is a completely different attitude. The Green Party has an almost dogmatic attitude. The reader of the international press could see that Forbes, for example, wrote about this in a rather interesting way the other week. We're open to look at more places. Then you should also know that there is a municipal veto in the establishment of nuclear power as well as other activities. That goes without saying. If we are to meet the future needs that industries and others will have and if we are to meet the climate challenge, I think we need to use all fossil-free forces. I think the Environment Party's attitude is strange. It is more important for them to phase out and be against nuclear power than to save the climate. That is a remarkable attitude, Madam President.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-192	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats' view is that the energy system should be an enabler for the social development that we strive for, not something that households and industry should be forced to help for it to even work. It is clear that we cannot continue along this path and that action needs to be taken. The biggest opportunity for short-term electricity generation in particularly southern Sweden is to make a decision to restart Ringhals 1. This would be a significant relief in the near future and make it easier for the electrification that is now increasing rapidly. Sweden needs to replace today's target of 100% renewable energy with a target of completely fossil-free electricity generation, in order to clearly indicate that nuclear power continues to have a given place in the Swedish power system. We also need to participate in the development of next generation nuclear power and small modular reactors in Sweden, instead of state-owned Vattenfall having to do this abroad. Electricity grid capacity needs to be expanded faster. The Government's ambitions for short processing times are too low. At the same time, network regulation needs to be developed with a focus on innovation, functionality and reliability. We need to strengthen the competitiveness of power and district heating, which is important from a system perspective and to relieve the need for electricity during the cold winter months. There is a need for clear and concrete targets for security of supply to be guided by the policy. The Riksdag has decided on this since before. But the government is stalling. As I began by saying in the debate, there is a lack of majority in Parliament for the current energy agreement. Energy policy cannot be shaped in the future by fragile majorities back and forth on individual issues. The Swedish Democrats believe that initiatives need to be taken to reach a broad agreement on energy policy. It should focus on precisely system perspectives and cost-effectiveness and not lead us into dead ends.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-199	Madam President, I would like When we have debated energy issues in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have debated energy issues with Mattias Bäckström Johansson on several occasions. I have always had the impression that the Swedish Democrats are the most pro-nuclear party in parliament. It may have happened. I don't have a problem with that. All parties have their own line on energy policy. During the first debates when I entered the Riksdag in 2014, the Swedish Democrats seemed almost not to take climate hazards and climate challenges seriously. They waved away their fears several times. Today, however, it is said several times that it is because of climate change that they want nuclear power and say it is fossil-free. I agree in part with that. It is not entirely fossil-free because uranium is a fossil fuel. What drives the Swedish Democrats? Is it that Swedish industry is rooting for you, is it the climate issue or is it something else?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-202	Madam President, I would like Member Birger Lahti said uranium is fossil, but uranium is not a fossil resource at all. It is fossil-free and does not consist of fossils that have been compressed together. We've got our uranium from space. If you look at nuclear power as a planned power generation, you can see that the energy mix that provides the lowest costs from a system perspective is reasonable. This applies to both how much electricity grid we need to build and what the electricity produced costs. It is a reasonable mix between planned, adjustable and weather-dependent power generation. According to the studies carried out, approximately one third of each is needed. Nuclear power is one of the few fossil-free types of power that has served Sweden very well for several decades. It will continue to be able to contribute to serving Sweden well and contribute to our having low greenhouse gas emissions, although there is an impact of other fossil-based forces.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-205	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the answer so far! This is exactly what I wanted to press. The climate issue comes last in your ranking. I agree that nuclear power is important in the mix today, but the cost picture we are talking about is also important for Sweden. Even Swedish industry sometimes misses the part about industrial investments made in northern Sweden. They do not want electricity production that costs one penny per kilowatt hour. They cannot produce hydrogen with the price picture of new nuclear power. There is sometimes talk of small nuclear reactors. Bill Gates presented the same solution back in the 1990s, and now he's repeating these things. Can Mattias Bäckström Johansson show something that has progressed with the fourth generation? You talk about it a lot. But I can't find anything that's been going on in that technology since 1979.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-208	Madam President, I would like There are several reasons to be positive about nuclear power. We are for economic reasons, among other reasons. It is significantly cheaper from a system perspective to have planned power generation than to have 100 percent renewable production. In addition to greenhouse gas emissions, a major environmental impact is seen when coal and oil are fired, which contribute to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people each year. There is therefore a great deal of effort that can be made in relation to the environment and human health. Developments in the nuclear sector are not only about the facilities we have, but also about the efficiency of the fuel used in the reactors. There has been a fantastic development for several decades. Today it uses a considerably lower amount of fuel than it has done in the past. You can get a lot more out of the core. It is no longer possible to run the reactor as it did decades ago with the development that has taken place. Developments are also taking place in this area and are now ready for other forms such as small-scale nuclear power.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-211	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Member Bäckström Johansson mentioned that he wanted to see a new energy agreement. I share that view, and it is wonderful that many parties join it. That's a good thing. But I wonder what, according to the Swedish Democrats, should be included in such an agreement. It sometimes sounds like the Swedish Democrats are as extremist as the Green Party and the Center Party in terms of nuclear power but in a completely different direction. For us liberals, it is important that energy policy is technologically neutral. We shall have technology-neutral systems, rules of play and subsidies – if necessary – and shall not treat positively or negatively any fossil-free type of energy. My question to Mrs Bäckström Johansson is: Do the Swedish Democrats share the view that there should be technology-neutral rules of play? Or do they want to reward a kind of energy over something else?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-214	Madam President, I would like Of course, technology neutrality must be pursued within the framework of fossil-free energy sources. The goal should of course be that our power system continues to be characterised by fossil freedom and that we are not dependent on imports of coal power from other countries. We must make sure that we make ourselves less dependent on the outside world and that we manage our own energy supply. In the context of such technology neutrality, it is a question of pricing the benefits needed to achieve it. It is not just about the electrical energy that is delivered over time, but what everyone needs is power at any given moment. Therefore, there must of course be a price mechanism that rewards the ability to deliver a product when it is requested for the services in question, what is known as system services. It's about being able to contribute with the balance mass but also with the reactive power of the synchronous generators that are connected to our core network and then price it. Then you can achieve this.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-217	Madam President, I would like Much of the policy put forward by Mrs Bäckström Johansson is one that the Liberals have also put forward in the past. This is positive. Of course, we need an energy system where all fossil-free parts are involved and contribute their benefits. All types of energy also have disadvantages, and that is why politics should not identify a particular type of energy as better or worse than anything else. We should set good rules that take into account the advantages and disadvantages of all types of energy and that relate technology-neutrally to the objectives that we have agreed, that is, the headline targets for Swedish energy policy that we have repeatedly addressed in the debate. For many of those who follow the energy policy debate, it appears that the Swedish Democrats are a party that wants to reward nuclear power on a non-technology neutral basis. They appear as an equally extreme party as the Green Party but from another direction. It would be gratifying if that were not the case, and perhaps it should come up with more.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-219	Madam President, I would like Well, I guess it'll have to turn out then. It is probably up to each and every one to follow what the different parties think in substance. For us, it is important that nuclear power has a role to play. It has done so historically on grounds that have been established in Sweden. It has not really been a question of substantial subsidies, but in the past it has taken place within the framework of the business of Vattenfall. Profits have been reinvested to build it up. There is clearly a value in the services to which it contributes in the power system. It is a question of fundamentally changing the way the market works and of pricing the benefits it provides in the future. The market model based solely on the price of energy does not work. It has led us to this situation, where there is a lack of balance of power and where there is a shortage of electricity. We are becoming more dependent on our world where you burn with coal power, which is a development that we do not look forward to. The talks I have talked about will mean that it will be needed in the future.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-224	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the debate, it is striking that almost everyone talks about the same thing and sees about the same problem. It is therefore regrettable that the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose to drop out the day before we would sit down and start negotiating an energy agreement 2.0. I hope that they will consider reconsidering this decision. Obviously, there is much that we agree on. We agree that we need to speed up the transfer and that we need a new production. We agree that we need to set a planning target for Swedish power grids. We need to ensure that Svenska Kraftnät gets a long-term responsibility for the energy system. So there are a number of things on which we fully agree, and this applies in principle to all parties in this House. We also need to look more closely at the transfer. We would need a handshake in this House for stable, long-term and predictable electricity grid regulation. It is a rather complex piece of legislation in which we would really need a lot of depth. But I think we can find something where we can produce shorter and more efficient licensing processes to enable more electricity grid investments, which I think we all agree on is needed. I am prepared to sit down and conduct those discussions. The question is whether other parties are. We would need a planning target for Swedish power grids and more long-term responsibility. We would also need a reinforced and renewable power reserve. There are demands for that today, but some decisions are missing. It is clear that we would need an improved power reserve. Even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise points out this in its report on capacity mechanisms. They do not want these discussions about getting paid for planning. You want a reinforced power reserve, because that's what makes the biggest difference. The Center Party stands for and launches solutions that work here and now, not romance about either old techniques or theoretical future. With us there will be decisions, responsibilities and differences.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-229	Madam President, I would like This is a policy area in which the Liberals and the Center Party share a lot of starting values but still come to a lot of different conclusions. One of the initial values that both of our parties talk about is technology neutrality. We also believe in market mechanisms. Madam President, I would like We have in Sweden a number of headline energy policy objectives that we have discussed several times before. My question to Rickard Nordin is about how he views the proposal for subsidies for offshore wind energy put forward by the government. Will Rickard Nordin, in the name of technology neutrality and in the name of not having targeted subsidies to any of the fossil-free energy laws, oppose this proposal, or is Rickard Nordin for targeted subsidies to individual types of energy?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-231	Madam President, I would like What the proposal actually means is an extended possibility for Swedish power networks to build at sea if they consider it socially profitable. I think it is a fairly reasonable balance that Swedish power networks must not only build on land but can also use the sea where you can see that there is a possibility to do so. This has also been welcomed from the Swedish power grid. It is seen as a welcome extension of their mission. Let me ask a question back to Joar Forssell. He talks a lot about technology neutrality and that politics should set the rules of the game. Yet his party leader says we're going to restart Ringhals 1. It is not just a question of abolishing a legislative proposal, it is explicitly talking about giving Vattenfall the task of doing so. How is it technology neutral to identify individual power plants to be restarted? That, if anything, is not a decision for this House.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-233	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange that Rickard Nordin may not have read the documents in the Committee on Economic Affairs. What the Liberals have proposed when it comes to Ringhals 1 is to change the law so that you can restart Ringhals 1. Then we also mean that there should be technology-neutral rules of the game, which will probably mean that there is profitability also in running nuclear power. But none of the individual types of energy is a purpose in itself. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the major investments that the government has presented to offshore wind power are subsidies. Otherwise you wouldn't have gone out and hit the big drum. Otherwise, it would not have been said: now we will see to it that this is profitable and that it is done. Madam President, I would like I have nothing against offshore wind power. I think that all fossil-free energies are needed and need to be part of the mix when we solve the climate crisis. On the other hand, I am opposed to directing subsidies to individual types of energy. That is not the role of politics. I am very sorry to hear that the Center Party does not stand up for technology neutrality.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-236	Madam President, I would like To expand the Swedish power grid's mission so that they are not limited to land but can also build in the water, to let the Swedish power grid build where they think it is most appropriate – that if something is technology neutrality. What gets a little weird when you listen to the Liberals is that they say one thing in this House but a completely different thing in the media. Is it so that L does not want to restart reactors but just want to make this possible? Vattenfall itself says this would be economic madness. In their statements in SVT and Expressen Nyamko Sabuni says that we will own Vattenfall to control it and do something of it. In the same breath she talks about rebooting Ringhals 1 and 2 – above all number one, because the second is broken. It will be very strange to conduct a policy that is said to be technologically neutral but in the media bring forward something quite different, where you want to actively steer towards certain power plants. That, if anything, is not technology neutrality.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-239	Madam President, I would like Colleagues who have debated Sweden's energy supply! I thank all those involved. I do not know if we have come closer to a solution to the issue, but certainly some question marks have been straightened out for me. First of all, I would like to talk about offshore wind power and subsidies, as they call it. It is about removing the connection fee or subsidising in some way. I think there is a reasonable explanation why we have ended up where we are. In southern Sweden, where much more people live, it is very difficult to obtain permits for land-based wind power. With offshore wind, one sees an opportunity to expand one of the cheapest power teams. That's about half the price compared to building reactors. This is one of the reasons. I'm ready to look at it. Then there are many different ways of subsidising. I'd be really excited to look at how we're going to do this. Then, of course, we have the impression that what is called a market economy does not apply to energy issues for some parties, but does so for some others. As long as you're running business, it's obviously okay with anything. But I think that we should ask companies who today want to do the right thing. They take the climate crisis seriously. They want to make the right investments. They're not calling for us to have reactors in operation. They call for cheap electrical energy which of course should be available every second. As far as the networks are concerned, I wonder that no one is looking at whether it is a liberalised market. There are some who own the networks and have complete control. They win every fight against the Energy Market Inspectorate in legal proceedings. It's a market that doesn't work. That no one else is pushing that! The Swedish people have paid huge network charges. This is part of the problem that has brought us here.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-243	Madam President, I would like My question is about the left-wing energy policy. We have also heard many times before from the speaker's chair how Mr Lahti has talked warmly about, for example, how to resolve the climate issue. At the same time, however, the honourable Member wishes to direct and set and often point nuclear power as a bad thing, rather than directing towards the overall objectives of sustainability, security of supply and cost-effectiveness. I therefore wonder whether the honourable Member thinks that one should be technology neutral and steer towards the overall objectives or whether the policy should go in and point with the whole hand and simply ignore the use of one of the tools that we need to adjust and to save the climate, which the Left Party repeatedly says is so important. Will the Left Party pursue a technology-neutral policy?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-245	Madam President, I would like I thank Joar Forssell for the question. It is, just as the Government was in on, no secret why we ended up outside the energy agreement that was made. We have a congressional decision to phase out nuclear power as soon as possible. It is democracy in a party that has played its part. Then I will try to put that policy forward. But I am prepared to agree that it would probably be foolish today to phase out the six nuclear reactors that are in operation. We'd probably miss the climate targets if we were to phase them out today. I may have to go to my congress and say that Liberals say that nuclear power has not been able to play with the same rules of the game. If you say a lie enough times, it becomes a truth. The tax on nuclear power was even removed so that it would have the same rules of play. Nobody's ever said you can't invest. Nobody's investing because it's too expensive. I agree that we should have the forces that are good for the climate and the environment.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clear answer, in which the honourable Member acknowledges that nuclear power has an important role to play in achieving the climate objectives. What still makes me a little confused is that the honourable Member says that nuclear power will disappear at a certain date. The honourable Member also said earlier in his speech that he wanted to see some subsidies for other types of energy. The political signals are being sent that some types of energy will receive subsidies. Moreover, these subsidies often end up in the pockets of capitalists from other countries. It is a little strange that it is precisely the Left Party that is proposing this. If you say this at the same time as you say that nuclear power should have a certain end date, it is not to provide technology neutral and comparable rules of play for all types of energy that are fossil-free. It is clear that it is not the signal that will get the market to deliver green energy that we need in the climate transition.
i-5TYP6V2n93KARcvi82yKEG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the discussion! I agree that painting a scenario for the population will be tricky. We have had neutral systems that have been able to balance the subsidy. The electrical certification system is a good system. We want to phase it out. There's no need for anything else. Liberals say that nuclear power has not been able to have a level playing field. I think that's a lie. The tax on thermal power was removed. It got 5 billion right on the button. Yet no one wants to invest. The truth is that it will be phased out because it is not profitable. No one wants to build new reactors. I think it's played its part in 2040.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-254	Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, Sweden's electricity supply is a hygiene factor – electricity should be there when it is needed, regardless of where in the country or the time of day. Sweden has long been one of the EU's leading countries to have almost completely fossil-free electricity production at low prices. But this requires policy to provide the conditions for this. I will present five proposals that we are pushing for a secure electricity supply. Firstly, changing the energy policy target to 100% fossil-free if we are serious about electrifying both the fleet and industrial processes. Nuclear power has served us well. In this respect, the policy must be clear that the existing nuclear power should be extended for life. It is by far the most cost-effective and stable for Sweden's future. Politics must clearly signal that nuclear power has a future in Sweden. Secondly, set an ambitious planning target for increased use of electricity by public authorities and where there is a designated responsible party. Thirdly, remove distortive subsidies that eliminate the market. For example, we are opposed to the proposed abolition of offshore wind connection charges. Fourthly, developing the electricity market, rewarding planning, stability and low system costs, because Sweden deserves an electricity system to be trusted. Fifthly, the issue of power and network capacity must be taken seriously, permit processes shortened and the role of power and district heating is being upgraded. In addition to these points, add that the government needs to make a decision about the disposal and the intermediate storage facility for Sweden's management of nuclear waste. This applies regardless of whether you are against or against nuclear power.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-263	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin! I note that we do not agree on everything. That's the way it should be. Otherwise, we would not have needed different parties in the country. But we agree on a lot. We think that we should plan for a substantial increase in energy use. I understood from the last speech by Camilla Brodin that we agree roughly on the size of the planning. We should plan for a doubling of electricity production and consumption in the country. We agree with several other measures raised by Camilla Brodin. Then it will be a little fun that it is Camilla Brodin who himself has negotiated that we should abolish the connection fee for offshore wind power. But you'll have to sort it out yourself in the party. My question is very simple. If we now agree on as much as we seem to be, what prevents us from agreeing on long-term rules for Sweden's best, for energy investors and the Swedish business community?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-267	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the question. Just as you started by saying, we were in the Energy Agreement. We chose to leave it because we addressed a number of issues that we wanted to discuss together and that we saw it important for Sweden's electricity supply to discuss and address. This did not succeed. We made those recordings. We did not get the answers back that one was prepared to sit down. They wanted to implement everything they had already done. We are prepared, as we have always said, to discuss with all parties in the Swedish Parliament the challenges facing Sweden. Of course, the government parties are some of the parties with which we are discussing this further. It is gratifying to hear that the Government wishes to discuss this with us in future.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-270	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have a different picture. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the other parties in the energy agreement made a number of contributions and also received suggestions on how to discuss it further but instead chose to drop out of the energy agreement. I'm sorry about that. Although we have differences of opinion between our parties, I believe that we are essentially in agreement. Then I think that the value of having a common agreement and long-term rules of play for investment in industry must be greater than winning short-term party political points. I therefore welcome the fact that Camilla Brodin claims to be interested. It goes further than what the Moderates previously expressed. I hope that this debate can be the start of a rethink and a new thinking so that we can get back to what was so useful for Sweden, namely an agreement on long-term rules of play.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-273	Madam President, I would like Here I would just like to clarify a few points raised earlier by the Government. It concerns the connection of offshore wind power, which was one of the issues that we had in the old agreement. With regard to the abolition of the connection fee to the core network, that is what was stated in the agreement. To also offer the cable from the core network out to the offshore facility, which is now being proposed, has never been relevant to us. If you look at the studies that have been carried out, you can see that it is not the most cost-effective for Sweden. In this case, we differ in the perception of what is said. It said it should be abolished. Now we see that it should not be abolished until we look at the investigations that have been carried out. It is not something that serves Sweden well when you look at how distortive subsidies threaten the profitability of other electricity producers, many of which are needed for a stable electricity network.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for your speeches. It's always exciting to listen to Camilla Brodin. I'm a little curious. Let's say that exactly the five proposals that Camilla Brodin lines up go through. At the same time, Camilla Brodin's party leader Ebba Busch wants to build two new reactors in Ringhals. I have two questions. First of all, how is this to be done? Secondly, what price does the Christian Democrats see before them would be needed to make this possible?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. It is an extremely important issue that Sweden has stable electricity production in the southern part of the country. We have now seen reactors being phased out. With the energy agreement that we both signed, there is still permission for reactors to exist in the future, even after 2040. But the only thing that has been in the talks and the only thing that has been pointed out is the fossil-free, because we have a government that clearly points out that it should be 100 percent renewable instead of 100 percent fossil-free. This has signalled to the market that nuclear power is not welcome after 2040. Who would want to invest at all when there are such short lead times? I wouldn't do that either. Here it is important for us politicians to signal: What is welcome? What's needed? How can you see that it serves Sweden well?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-284	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive a single answer. Camilla Brodin talks about the things she has already raised in the speaker's chair. I said, let's assume they're going through. Can I have answers to these questions, please?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-286	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Rickard Nordin again asking the questions. I thought somewhere that you would still a little bit understand the meaning of the signal value and what you get when you talk about these questions. Of course, it is not us Christian Democrats who are going to build nuclear reactors; I hope everyone understands that. But we must give the political signal that nuclear power is welcome, as we cannot see in any scenarios from the Energy Agency, where everything is phased out at 2040. As far as the cost of this is concerned, we have seen different estimates from opponents of nuclear power that have been published in different types of media. Why should Sweden always be the worst? Why should we assume that Sweden should be the worst example, when there is nuclear power that can be built much faster and at a much lower cost? Why should we assume that Sweden should be the worst?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-289	Madam President and Mrs Brodin! I listened to the speeches, and it was interesting when the honourable Member said in the first speech that industry needs competitive electricity to make the transition. It's interesting, and it leads me a little bit to the same question that Rickard Nordin asked. Camilla Brodin talks about the signal value and says that it is an important value in what politics says. There are two sentences in the energy arrangement, which I really shouldn't care about, because I wasn't there. You interpret one sentence very hard – this is about having renewable electricity by 2040. But there is another sentence that says that new reactors can be built at the existing location without support. How do you get such a list on these two sentences in the settlement that you have? I feel like you're allowed to build, but you're talking about the signal value. It's the same signal value on both things. You can build if it's economically justifiable, but no one does.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. At the risk of getting a little nagging: Here it is again the signal value. When we look at the energy agreement as a whole, we see that it stands 100% renewable. It also says that Sweden should be able to build up to ten reactors on existing sites. There is nothing strange about it, and there is also something that we have tried to drum out as much as possible during the period that we were in the agreement. But when you then signal to every authority, when their scenarios and plans for how Sweden's energy production will look like in the future will be developed, that nuclear power is not included after 2040 because you have focused so hard on 100 percent renewable – yes, then it is the fault of politics that you have done that signal value. This is also what the market has to do with. It is clear that no one wants to build nuclear power because nuclear power has an incredibly important part in Sweden's electricity production.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. But once again, it says in the agreement that new reactors can be built. It is the price picture that is the crux of the matter. We know they're building in Finland, but they haven't reached their goal yet. It was supposed to be done in 2009, but they're still doing it. Now they start talking about 2023, and you know that the price per kilowatt hour will land somewhere at over $1.20. Then my question will be the same as the one that Rickard Nordin asked: How expensive can the electricity be in a reactor? Even if you had removed that sentence – how expensive can the electricity be? I wonder when investors in northern Sweden will scream out and say: No, we can't make hydrogen out of this if it costs one penny per kilowatt hour! How expensive can the electricity be?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-300	Madam President, I would like Once again, we have an electricity market, and it is not we Christian Democrats who are setting the price. It's not up to us to decide. We cannot answer exactly how expensive the electricity will be. Above all, we must allow nuclear power to have a future. The future as such means that we must ensure that we are able to secure our electricity supply both for industries and for all households in a secure manner. And that will not be the case if we continue with the policy that we are seeing today. So thank you again for the question, but I think that we politicians have a much greater responsibility to signal that nuclear power is still welcome.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-303	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Brodin and the Christian Democrats for the very clear statement in the debate that they are opposed to the large subsidies aimed at the offshore wind. That is a welcome message. One should not subsidise individual fossil-free types of energy, and of course no other types of energy either. But it is really only fossil-free types of energy that should be allowed to exist at all. Madam President, I would like My question is precisely about the issue of technology-neutral rules of play. The Christian Democrats have proposed the construction of two new reactors. It is a very specific and rather harsh proposal from the Christian Democrats, I would say. I wonder whether the Christian Democrats simply do not support the idea that there should be technology-neutral rules of the game and that politics should steer towards the headline targets rather than pointing out exactly what should be built when and where.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Here it is obvious that we see the future of nuclear power in Sweden, especially in southern Sweden, when production has been deleted from the map. We also see the need for this to be put in place quickly so that we do not lose a great deal for many years. We also see the industrial processes that exist, and we see an increased use of electricity to achieve the climate goals. If you look at the map with the rules of the game and the laws that we have today, you have to ask yourself: What is the closest thing we come to? You then start a preparation work at Ringhals on reactor 5 and 6. In our world, maybe that's where you should start. It's the fastest procedure. We do not identify the type of reactor it should be, but we obviously take for granted that old nuclear power is not being built. New nuclear power will be built in the future.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-310	Madam President, I would like It becomes very clear here that there is one thing that separates the energy policy of Liberals and Christian Democrats. I believe that we must steer towards the headline energy policy objectives, which are about security of supply, cost efficiency and sustainability. But from the point of view of politics, we should not point out exactly what kind of energy we should have. We should certainly not point out which technology we should have, but we should ensure that subsidies, systems and rules of play are technology neutral. Madam President, I would like I had hoped that the Christian Democrats, at this turn of the line, could say plainly that they are in favour of the Liberals' energy policy motion, where we have several proposals to level out the rules of the various fossil-free energy laws. We want authorities to stop fighting specific types of energy and not to point out either a specific type of energy or a specific technology as a party. I think that the policy should be technology neutral and not be concerned with targeted support.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Of course we are in favour of technology neutrality. But the honourable Member makes it sound like we want to subsidise reactors at Ringhals. We have not talked about subsidies at all. We have said that we see a need in southern Sweden, where electricity generation has been removed. We see that we have a common enemy, namely coal and oil. I hope we can all agree on that. What, then, do we see that could be the quickest way to fill the need? Well, nuclear power is one way. Of course, technology neutrality is important. We do not know what tomorrow's opportunities will give us. We're not gonna close the door for them. But we must clearly signal that nuclear power actually has a place in Swedish electricity production in the future. I hope that the honourable Member will also be able to support this.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-317	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates aim for an anthill of small new reactors. It is unclear how KD views this proposal, but at least it is clear that it wants to invest in large new reactors. 200 - 400 billion kronor or a triple electricity price is about what this would land on a cost basis. So far, we have not received a reply from Camilla Brodin about who is going to pay the bill, so I ask the question again: Is it the electricity customers who are going to pay the bill, or is it Swedish taxpayers? And to prevent Camilla Brodin's possible response, I would also like to say that the cost of nuclear power is not affected by a few words in an energy agreement, but the general trend in the world is that nuclear power is becoming more expensive and more expensive, while renewables are becoming cheaper and cheaper.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-320	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We see the future of nuclear power. It has a given place in the Swedish energy mix also forward. The honourable Member himself has signalled that he believes in an entirely renewable society? It is interesting, however, that the honourable Member is still raising the issue of costs. I myself have heard the honourable Member say that it does not matter and that renewables can cost as much as possible, as long as it benefits the climate. We can look at the various calculations that have been made. Then we can see that a completely renewable system is up to 40 per cent more expensive than a completely fossil-free electricity system for Sweden. If we were to extend the lifetime of the nuclear power that remains, build new ones and ensure that we have a good mix of energy producers in the future, it would benefit Sweden.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for your answer! What is relevant here is how we reach fossil freedom fastest and cheapest. The Swedish Enterprise's report is rigged to the benefit of nuclear power. The calculation rates have been completely wrong. You don't count on trading electricity. There are a number of factors that are rigged to make it as if nuclear power is cheaper than it is. If you look at the actual projects that are now going on – that is what Lennart Söder, Professor at KTH, has done – it is quite clear that nuclear power is the most expensive way to achieve fossil freedom in the long term. The question remains: 200 – 400 billion SEK or three times the electricity price – who will be responsible for the party, is it the electricity customers or the taxpayer? What kind of subsidies are we going to have? In France and the United Kingdom, where it is built, huge government subsidies are needed to build it. Who's gonna pay?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Again: Sweden needs a stable and secure energy mix to meet the climate challenges that actually exist. As far as the construction of new nuclear power is concerned, the honourable Member may come with the absolutely worst example of cost-effectiveness. Why should Sweden strive to be the worst in the world when it comes to building new reactors? Lorentz Tovatt says that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has published a rigged report. Is it, then, a nuclear opponent's calculations that should form the basis for building new nuclear power? Lennart Söder is an opponent of nuclear power. He has not been particularly pro-nuclear over the years, you might say. Is his report then rigged? Here we have to look at the overall cost: how long can nuclear power run? It will be the most cost-effective in the long term.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-331	Mr President, I would like to As in many energy policy debates, a lot of focus is on the different types of energy as well as energy, impact and other important issues. But these are things that the market with comparable and equal rules of play is pretty good at solving. It is about ensuring that there is electricity and energy and that the different types of energy are used as efficiently as possible. On the other hand, we politicians have a primary responsibility for the technical characteristics of the power system, which means that it is reliable and robust, that it has stability in frequency and voltage and that the system has the ability to cope with errors, i.e. that there is, for example, the possibility of starting up the power system after a break and that it is dimensioned not only for the most normal state but also for various forms of crisis. The essential functions that need electricity and energy should always be able to receive electricity and energy. Today it is clear that southern Sweden is far too exposed to risks. That is what this discussion is about. It is not about whether there is electricity and energy in Sweden on an annual basis, because there is not much conflict in Swedish politics. However, parts of the system do not have the required robustness and cannot withstand the risks involved. That is what needs to be the task of politics. Mr President, I would like to We don't have an electric crisis in the sense that we don't have electricity. Electricity crisis we have in the sense that the system does not always work and can supply electricity where it should and that we are not sure that it can be restarted after a break. We must have a level playing field and eliminate targeted subsidies.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-335	Your President! Joar Forssell is an enthusiastic island of technology neutrality. It is almost a bit sad to have to inform him of his own party's decision at the country meeting in November 2019. In fact, decisions were taken at that time on targeted subsidies for nuclear power. It would be credit guarantees and total tax exemption. Joar may have a different picture of this decision, but it is his economic-political spokesperson, Mats Persson, who in an interview in Ekot says that they want to subsidise nuclear power, including tax exemptions and credit guarantees, which are to be directed specifically at nuclear power. So it is not technology neutral. It has also gone out and demanded earmarked money for nuclear energy and nuclear research. It sounds great with technology neutrality, but in practice the Liberals are actually pursuing a completely different policy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-338	Mr President, I would like to It's great that Lorentz Tovatt is following our country meetings. I appreciate that. In fact, I often follow the Green Party. I sat in the group in the party that drew up the policy that Lorentz Tovatt refers to. Take, for example, the credit guarantees! What we have proposed is technology-neutral credit guarantees, which you might actually need when implementing large projects. These projects can of course apply to nuclear power. They can also apply to something else. The Liberals have not stated from the side of the country that the credit guarantees should be directed to a specific type of energy, but are precisely technologically neutral in the way I have spoken about in this House today. When it comes to tax policy, charging policy and so on, we think it should be technology neutral and of course steer towards the overall objectives of Swedish energy policy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-341	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the answer! It gets strange when the economic-political spokesperson for the Liberals goes out and says that they want subsidies for nuclear power and, among other things, that tax exemptions should be directed precisely to nuclear power and not to any other kind of power. That's the meaning of the play. Then I have not read the documents themselves, so it is positive if Joar Forssell has a different view of the decision. Then I just have to sort this out with the sea wind. It's tricky to say it's a subsidy. It is about us assigning Swedish power networks to strategically build networks at sea, and it is part of a larger energy policy. It is therefore a political change that the EU is pushing, among other things. We will build networks between Sweden and our neighbours, for example, and then it is strategically reasonable to build it where there is power generation. Would Joar Forssell say that it is a subsidy that Swedish power networks build networks into areas that are rapidly urbanized? The idea is to build strategic networks. Is it, then, a subsidy to these areas or to the traders who are there?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-344	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with the credit guarantees. They say that there should be credit guarantees in some cases, where it is needed, because they are large projects. It's not really a subsidy. It is the subsidy of interest, the premium paid for risk. It is clear that this subsidy or credit guarantees can be used by various players making large and important investments. One of them could be nuclear. However, it has not been pointed out at the Liberals' national meeting that this would be the case. Otherwise, we have a number of proposals relating to different types of energy. What is important is that the rules of the game and the overall picture of economic instruments become technology neutral. It hasn't been like that. Today, subsidies to offshore wind are an example of how to distort the rules of the game to the detriment of nuclear power and to the advantage of offshore wind. That is what Lorentz Tovatt's whole objective of politics is: to get nuclear power out.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-346	Mr President, I would like to One can, of course, discuss in all eternity what is technology neutral. Was it technology neutral when the Liberals in government increased the tax on nuclear power? Was it technology neutral when other parties in the energy agreement abolished the nuclear impact tax? Or is the truth somewhere in between? I'm not gonna be a judge. However, I have two questions for Joar Forssell. The first question is: are Joar Forssell and the Liberals, now that we have left part of the nuclear debate and seem to be fairly in agreement on the description of the problem, prepared to gather across block and party boundaries to get a long-term energy policy for Sweden? The second question is: are the Liberals – if you are in favour of nuclear credit guarantees, as I understand from the country meeting decision that you are – prepared to provide corresponding credit guarantees to offshore wind and solar power?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-349	Mr President, I would like to On the first question, I do not remember exactly what the wording is, but it is technology neutral. The credit guarantees that the Liberals' national meeting – it's very nice that so many people care about our country meeting – have taken a stand for are technology neutral. There is nothing in that decision on nuclear power or any other type of energy. It's technology neutral from the start. If I were to say anything else, I would depart from the country meeting decision. Then there is the question of whether we have the same description of problems. I have been a little provoked in the debate by the fact that the Government has said it time and again, in several lines. I do not believe that we agree on the description of the problems. We agree that Sweden has electricity, but we do not seem to agree that it is a problem that we need, for example, to import fossil energy into parts of the country on certain occasions. Nor do we agree that it is the policy's task to ensure that we have a stable and reliable energy system rather than just discussing impact and energy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-351	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of exporting and importing energy into a free market. I understand that this is also the view of the Liberals. I assume that the other countries of the European Union will make the same journey towards fossil freedom and renewables as Sweden has done. And it will be a better, cheaper and more efficient energy system if we can exchange energy with each other, just as with all other goods. I think the Liberals are in favour of that. If, as a Liberal, we are now prepared to provide credit guarantees for offshore wind power, I wonder whether we are not prepared to connect offshore wind on the same terms as we previously connected nuclear power to the electricity grid. I suppose that would be a technology-neutral way of doing that.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-353	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by commenting on the first point. Yes, of course we're in favour of exporting and importing. Our problem is that we are not in favour of using fossil energy. As such a developed country that we are anyway, we should be able to have fossil-free electricity and energy all year round and also be able to export fossil-free electricity all year round from all parts of the country. We need it. And it is not only Sweden that needs to change when it comes to the climate, but it is the whole world. Building a system where one has an extra 100% renewable target, which stands in the way of the three headline targets, while at the same time making oneself dependent on fossil energy from other countries is not serious if one cares about the climate. On the second issue, it is again a question of the rules of the game being technologically neutral. Every type of energy contributes something and has its problems. We do not want to direct a subsidy to any type of energy at all.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-356	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say something that I think is important to say, because there is an ironic undertone about the concern about fossil power production. Sweden has become much less dependent on fossil power generation. Then the parties that now cry out most about fossil-free power production and are most worried, or who claim to be, are the parties that became most furious when the Green Party and the government closed Sweden's last coal power plant. That's when you got really upset. And now we are afraid that we are importing at the ultimate margin, a few hours a year. That's what we do, even though we export 30 times as much. So it is with split tongues and crocodile tears that the right is now complaining about the EU's most sustainable and stable electricity system. When that's said, I'm looking forward. Firstly, as many others have lifted, there are bottlenecks in the electricity grid. The Minister for Energy has explained very well what is currently going on. Of course, it will be a challenge, but in a few years' time things will ease. This is not least important because we see that the wind will continue to increase in northern Sweden. Secondly, we are talking about offshore wind. It is possible to look at the distribution within the EU. The EU sees the conditions for up to 100 terawatt hours from the sea wind in Sweden. It is mainly in southern Sweden. That's where the electricity is needed. There are good conditions and good wind. Of course we'll support it. Thirdly, energy efficiency is something that very rarely comes up in the debate, and we should focus much more on that. There is great potential both in current industry and in real estate. If we get better at that, we can make it easier for future industrial investments. Fourthly and lastly, it is about flexibility. We need to cut power peaks, and this is made easiest and most effective by flexibility in the market.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-363	Mr President, I would like to The future vision of the Moderates is about a strong economic development with new industries, a transformation that we combine with a green transition. Not least in the transport sector and in industry, we need a lot of electricity and fossil-free electricity in the future. Mr President, I would like to In Swedish energy policy, we have an overall objective that has become quite controversial: 100% renewable but additional sentences on nuclear power. We think it's better to start speaking plain text and say that it's 100 percent fossil-free that we're actually looking for. It is a combination of nuclear power, hydroelectric power, wind power and all other types of production and technologies. Now it is also documented in research that a 100 percent renewable system is up to 40 percent more expensive than a fossil-free system. Then I wonder if the Green Party and Lorentz Tovatt are prepared to take care of and change the Swedish energy target to get something that is more accurate and more cost-effective.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-366	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! It is not documented in research that a fossil-free power system would be more cost-effective. There are a number of points in the Swedish Enterprise's report that are rigged for nuclear power, so that's simply not true. You count on completely incorrect calculation rates and in a way that makes the sun come out very bad in the system. You count on imports but not on the benefits of exports and so on. If you look around the world, instead, nuclear energy is the energy source that is becoming more expensive, unlike everyone else, especially compared to sun and wind that dives in price. It is also the same for batteries and hydrogen, which also dive very quickly. We had an energy agreement that was long-term and guaranteed stable investments in the Swedish energy system. It was sad that the Moderates dropped it off; I still stand behind it.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-369	Mr President, I would like to The opportunities with industrial start-ups and the green transition are huge in the future, but we need lots of more electricity. We need to take advantage of the economic benefits that exist not least in wind power in the Swedish electricity and energy system. But it also comes to a point, Mr President, when we have to ask ourselves what we really want with this, and the question arises: is it more important for the Green Party to phase out nuclear power than to save the climate? If climate is the most important thing, the conclusion would be that we should use all fossil-free power strokes, because it is more important here and now than a dogmatic approach to nuclear power. That is how nuclear power will have to cope technically and economically on its merits. Then I come back to the main question, Mr President: Is the Green Party prepared to change the Swedish energy target to 100 fossil-free and also to use the possibilities of nuclear power, along with the other benefits of wind power etc., to safeguard the climate and the Swedish electricity and energy supply?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-373	Mr President, I would like to I can be clear about this: the climate is the most important. That's it. In the world of the Green Party, it is the most important issue of sustainability to deal with. Nuclear power does not outweigh a specific energy policy objective, but we also know that the easiest way to achieve fossil freedom is through renewable sources of power. I mentioned the crocodile tears and the split tongue in my speech. I've stood here so many times with Lars Helmered and debated Sweden's last coal power plant, as Lars Helmered was rosy that we closed. It was a completely different tone then. At the same time, his party is pushing for SEK 7 billion in tax relief for fossil road transport. So the moderates are not as souled as it appears when it comes to removing fossil fuels. Politics points in a different direction.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-375	Mr President, I would like to The debate today, which is mostly about nuclear energy versus renewable energy, is a bit tired. It feels like policy development has gone down in some kind of energy saving mode. I therefore think that we should get the heat up and talk about cogeneration. In yesterday's climate debate, where Lorentz Tovatt and I debated, Lorentz Tovatt wanted to see a reduction in the use of forest fuel in cogeneration to use it elsewhere. Then my question will be to Lorentz Tovatt: What is the Green Party thinking of replacing this with? Or do we want to reduce the production of cogeneration as such?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-377	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin – it is precisely this kind of debate that we should have more of in Swedish politics! In fact, it was one of those things that I raised as important if we were to develop the energy agreement, so that all parties should sit down and look at precisely the role of cogeneration. I think we should develop a national strategy for cogeneration, heat production and heat storage in general. I do not see that we could get rid of the majority of fuels in a short perspective. On the other hand, I see that we should look more broadly at other energy sources, such as the role of hydrogen and whether it can be incorporated into combined heat and power production. It could also be solar heat. The Nature Conservation Association points it out as an important technology that in the future can make some of the existing fuels more efficient. I am therefore optimistic and curious about the future of cogeneration.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-380	Mr President, I would like to Now it sounds a little different from the way it sounded yesterday. Yesterday we were supposed to solve the production of wooden houses by reducing the use of diapers and cogeneration. This does not really make sense, and when the Green Party also raises solar heat as a substitute for cogeneration, it misses out that cogeneration accounts for a very substantial part of electricity production in cities. I do not think this can be solved by hydrogen and storage alone. Storage only solves things over time. You will not be able to produce more electricity in cogeneration by having more stocks. So my question remains, and perhaps we can angle it like this: how do the Green Party and Lorentz Tovatt believe that the potential of cogeneration will develop in the future? Will we have more or less cogeneration with the Green Party's policy, and what will it be driven by?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-383	Mr President, I would like to I believe that cogeneration really has a central role to play, not least in terms of the system benefits it delivers in urban areas and in areas where we have a relative problem with power balances. Nor do I believe that the aim of the policy should be to reduce total production, in response to that question. First of all, I will say that hydrogen can be used for both power and heat production. So there we have a benefit from the impact situation. Solar heat has a potential precisely in storing warm water, and as an additional source it can also contribute positively to the power balance of the system. These are very interesting issues, and that is exactly why I am saying that we should have a national strategy that looks at this and puts out a plan for cogeneration forward.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-386	Mr President, I would like to It may be possible to build a fully renewable electricity system, but it will be quite expensive. Recently the idea was put forward that Skåne should invest in becoming self-sufficient in electricity with the help of wind power and battery bearings, something that I have heard the honourable Member vurma for on a number of occasions. A quick overlay estimate showed that a battery bearing with today's best technology would be able to supply Skåne only for 24 hours, and it would cost SEK 89 billion. Add to this the cost of the electricity to charge the batteries. The example shows how crazy it is not to have the total cost as a starting point. The alternative to copious amounts of batteries is to make southern Sweden dependent on fossil-fired imports, something that is taking place today to some extent. This is done in several scenarios, but the Green Party must also agree that it can hardly be considered a 100% renewable system.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-388	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is much less dependent on fossil power production now than when Camilla Brodin was in power. It's as simple as that. It's just facts. Then there was the question of costs. Say what you want about technology neutrality and the like, but you have to be able to follow the market and see what happens. We have ten years behind us where the cost of solar power has dropped by 90%. The cost of wind power has dropped by 60 per cent over the same time horizon. The only power source in the world that is becoming more expensive is nuclear power. One should be clear that the exact journey that the sun and wind have gone through to become the two cheapest energy sources in the world are now batteries and hydrogen inside. Norwegian hydrogen production is estimated to be cheaper than fossil hydrogen production within two years. There is no doubt about where the market is going. You have to bring that with you.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-391	Mr President, I would like to I note that the honourable Member once again withdraws nuclear energy, although I did not even mention the word nuclear energy in my speech. It sounds like Mr Lorentz Tovatt is nevertheless proposing to agree to change the energy target to 100% fossil-free instead of renewable. Is that something that the honourable Member can give a go-ahead for because it sounds like that in some parts of the debate?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-393	Mr President, I would like to In my world, you go into agreements for three reasons. The first and important thing is politics. The second is the long-term perspective. The third is to enter into agreements so that they can be kept over time. You do not leave an agreement after two years, as the Christian Democrats and the Moderates did. The Swedish Energy Agreement has laid the foundations for investments of SEK 100 billion in Swedish electricity production. It's exceptional and amazing. It is one of the highest per capita expansion rates in the world. I do not want to tear up such an agreement with its roots just a few years after it has been concluded. On the contrary! There are still challenges to deal with, and I am happy to sit down and look at, for example, cogeneration teams, but the broad brush strokes must remain in place to create long-termness and, in addition, be the cheapest way forward.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-396	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Lorentz, like us, is so happy that Sweden becomes less dependent on fossil energy. That's a good thing. That's where we agree. But the truth is that the South Swedish power system will stop working if Denmark, Germany or Poland shut down their fossil power plants. If the power plants stop delivering fossil energy to Sweden, the South Swedish power system will crash. How will the Green Party's policy keep the tension stable and have the ability to restart the system after a major break? How should environmental party policy have such abilities in the system without being dependent on Danish, German or Polish fossil power?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-399	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Sweden is not dependent on this type of power generation. Sweden exports 30 times more to Poland than we import. Most of the stuff we import comes from Norway. I thought everyone was aware of that. Then there may be individual hours. Let me give you an example. Say that a country with a planned economy would plan the production of a consumer product. Then the central government sends out people to control what is needed in society. They are then sent out during Black Friday, and then it is considered that there is a need for a lot of production. We cannot think that way in a market economy, but we must focus on cutting the tops. There are a variety of technologies that can do so, such as flexibility, energy efficiency, local power generation and so on. I will come back to these questions.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-401	Mr President, I would like to Voltage stability in southern Sweden is so bad that Swedish power networks do not even report deviations to the partner organization Acer. The planned energy, the hydropower we have received, and the sheep, from Norway will become increasingly competitive as Norway increases its capacity to transfer energy to other countries. Although we export energy from Sweden to other countries on an annual basis, the system that the Green Party is so proud of is that there is planned energy in the form of energy from fossil power plants from Denmark, Germany and Poland. This also applies to Norwegian energy, which we know in the future will be a more scarce resource. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Green Party has no stable answers on how to ensure voltage stability and that the system can be restarted after a major break.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-405	Mr President, I would like to Swedish power networks have been slow to invest in the electricity grid, but it has also been tough with new technology in the system. For example, Swedish power grids could have predicted summer breakdowns and made the investments needed to have smart technology installed in southern Sweden. If you'd been a little more on top of it, it would have been quite possible. Instead, they had to procure very expensive nuclear power. The first is that the artificial balance mass of the wind is already installed. The second is that many countries have started to install batteries in the system, such as Germany. The third is local power generation. I would like to sit down and talk more about, for example, the role of cogeneration. How can solar power be expanded combined with batteries? The fourth is voltage stabilizers. That is exactly what Swedish power networks should have installed in the network. There is much that can be done, and Joar Forssell need not be concerned.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-408	Mr President, I would like to I note that we are at odds with parts of the reality statement and we agree with many of the measures. If we compare this policy area with several other policies, I dare say that the differences in what we actually want to do are relatively small. The benefits of agreeing on the policy are relatively high. The investments made today will determine where Sweden stands in 30 or 40 years' time. Few other policies have such long-term rules of play. It should then be the policy's task to create a corresponding long-term and security basis for those who are to make investment decisions. I hope that this debate can be the starting shot so that we can get back to that security for Sweden.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-421	Mr President, I would like to Mr Eklind has asked me what initiatives the government intends to take to tackle crime linked to assistance payments. He has also asked if the government is prepared to adjust the salary floor for a free labour migration to Swedish average salary and introduce a nutritional test for those jobs where the monthly salary is less than the same. Countering mispayments and non-payments within welfare systems is necessary to maintain confidence in the welfare state. It is an ongoing work both for the government and for the responsible authorities. The government has taken a series of measures to counter fraud and mispayments. Among other things, both the Grant Crime Act and the Act on Intelligence Obligations in the event of incorrect payments from welfare systems have been tightened. The Social Insurance Agency also carries out systematic control work, both to prevent undue payments and to detect such payments afterwards. The government has also set a target to reduce the mispayments from welfare systems and provides the relevant authorities with funds to step up their efforts to combat irregular payments. The government takes very seriously data on the use of the labour immigration system. In recent years, several reports have been presented describing how the regulations for personal assistance and work permits are systematically used by organised crime. Against this background, the government has commissioned a special investigator to consider various measures to combat abuse of the labour immigration system and the exploitation of labour immigrants. The investigator shall identify the extent to which the labour immigration framework is used for organised abuse and, if necessary, propose measures. The investigator will examine, among other things, the so-called circular states. It is about organised abuse of companies that bring in workers with family members who are in need of personal assistance. The investigator shall also make proposals to tighten penalties for employers who make use of the labour immigration system and to compensate workers. A month ago, the investigator submitted an interim report, including proposals for increased controls on the conditions of labour immigrants. For some employers, it is also proposed to impose penalties when the conditions of employment are reduced. It also makes a proposal on the supply requirements for migrant workers who wish to bring their family members here. This means that those who come to Sweden to work and bring their family with them must earn enough to support themselves and their family members. There is a big difference in income requirement if an employee wants to bring his or her family with him or her. The proposals are now being referred, and further measures to combat abuse of the system will be presented in the final report to be submitted by 1 November.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-429	Mr President, I would like to I wrote this interpellation on the basis of the many reports of the to say the least despicable crime associated with personal assistance. After all, it has become clear that organised crime absorbs huge amounts of money annually at the expense of Swedish taxpayers. If we do not do anything, personal assistance will be notorious as the financier and enabler of organised crime. This would be deeply unfortunate, not least because I believe that assistance payments for many are a prerequisite for living their lives in the same way as people who do not have a disability. To safeguard assistance is therefore to tackle this crime. It's not a small amount of money we're talking about. Försäkringskassan, which for many years tried to tackle the irregularities and partly succeeded, recovered SEK 144 million in 2019. Last year was a record year – when it recovered SEK 460 million that was wrongly paid. This is a warning bell in itself. At the same time, there are, even more shockingly, estimates that up to 10% or more of all spending on assistance is wrong and also goes to criminal arrangements. This would mean that the annual undue payment is around SEK 3 billion, i.e. seven times as much as the record year 2020. One explanation for this is the so-called user import, which is the exploitation of today's liberal labour immigration regulations. For those who are not familiar with how it works: An assistance company in Sweden is going to find a family in a third country with a disabled child. The family is attracted to Sweden by the assistance company employing one of the parents. Once on site in Sweden, this parent applies to be reunited with his family. It is currently possible to do this without any supply requirement whatsoever. The disabled child then becomes the basis for assistance compensation at Försäkringskassan. Given that this application is granted, the parent can then work as a dependent with the assistance company for his own child. Of course, for the family that is given this opportunity, it is difficult to say no, but it is the assistance company that makes money. We have also received reports of several cases where this has developed into a nightmare for individual families because they have not been given this opportunity and the money is flowing into the pockets of criminals. This is so deeply cynical that it is difficult to find suitable words when describing how you feel about it. Authorities have named it exploitation and human trafficking. In the Minister's response to my interpellation, it appears that you are working on new rules, and that is great. But do they really play a role in getting to grips with this, which I think we are both seeking? The Minister does not say anything about a salary floor or a nutritional test in the work carried out. These are measures that would not only affect this at the margin but actually put an end to it. Does the Minister agree that we are making such a change? There is parliamentary support for a salary floor and a business trial.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-439	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats have now woken up on this issue. The background is that this is the result of the changes in the regulations that the Christian Democrats and the other Alliance Government pushed through ten years ago. This is a direct consequence of the ultra-liberal rules that you pushed through. It was the great reform of the alliance government: the world's most generous rules for labour immigration. There is no labour market trial. Apparently, you want it now. You have changed your mind on this point, but you removed that ten years ago. There is no real wage threshold. Many countries have much higher wage thresholds. Our effective salary threshold is in practice 13 000 SEK. It is very low in relation to most other countries, but there is no wage threshold above it. There is also no supply requirement for relatives. There too, Sweden stands out from other countries. And there's almost no control. Moreover, when we talk about personal assistance, this is in an almost entirely privatised market. I believe that 77% of personal assistance is provided by private companies. If, instead, we had municipal companies that did this, the risk of cheating and falsification would of course have been much lower. But now we have private companies with profit interests that make use of these ultra-liberal rules, which the Christian Democrats and the other alliance government pushed through ten years ago. It was also done entirely on the employer's terms. You didn't give a damn about the employees. You didn't give a damn about the criticisms of the trade union movement. Nor did the criticisms that we Social Democrats made at the time concern themselves at all. We pointed out that here there are great risks of exploitation, great risks of cheating and falsification, and great risks of tax money ending up in pockets where they should not end up. When we took office six years ago, it was a situation where this organization and these rules had had a full impact. We said we had to do something about it. At the same time, there was uncertainty about what there was a majority for, so we tried to work within the framework of the parliamentary support that existed at the time. What did we do? Well, we expanded the workplace inspections considerably. We gave new assignments to the authorities working against labour crime. Now we have a completely different situation, where the police and the Swedish Work Environment Authority and other authorities can increasingly go into workplaces to check who works there and under what conditions they work. We doubled the fine so that employers using illegal labour now have to pay twice as much as before in the penalty. We drew up a new law on human exploitation which allowed private companies to use labour immigration rules in such a way that they exploit the employees, so that they can also be convicted of crimes. All that's good. That is what we did during the last parliamentary term. At the same time, however, we could say that this is not enough. Not least the report that the twelve authorities working against organised crime came up with in the autumn of 2019 shows just that. When I got it in my hand, I went to the media and said: Look here! Look what it looks like! There must be further reforms here. Then we got some swings in some parties. Some parties began to wake up and said: Now we must also be involved in pushing forward reforms. We were then given the opportunity to set up the investigation I am talking about, which a month ago submitted a partial report proposing supply requirements for the relatives, an increased possibility of notification to ensure that the employees have the right salary and also additional measures. As I said, this autumn we will have a final report with even more measures to combat cheating and falsification in this market.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-454	Mr President, I would like to I note that, as usual, the Minister is stuck in the past, but I would like to remind you that the Minister has been in power for six years. For me, this debate is about the present and the future. We note that Sweden is the only country in the Western world that does not distinguish between qualified and unskilled workers. We want to change this. Here in Sweden, a restaurant owner has the opportunity in practice to sell a residence permit by offering employment, while at the same time we have able to work but unemployed people in Sweden who can take these jobs. As recently as today, Sweden's Engineers published a report on labour migration, which states that work permits have now become a business and that the person who in practice is adversely affected by the regulations we have today is the individual migrant. Note further that those who are immigrants to Sweden to work, not least in the field of assistance, come from countries such as Iraq, Iran and Syria. It is therefore the same countries that have dominated asylum seekers to Sweden. It is difficult to resist the idea that this is a way of rounding up the Swedish asylum system, which the Migration Agency has also alerted on several occasions. That is unacceptable and, I think, reason enough to remedy this, although I have reacted most strongly to the misuse of assistance. I feel like we might have to mention the elephant in this Chamber. I am thinking, of course, of the government partner of the Social Democracy, the Green Party, but also of the January agreement with the Liberals and the Center Party. There you Social Democrats have promised to protect today's system. So when the Council of State, both in the media and here today, expresses its willingness to change the rules on labour migration in line with what we Christian Democrats advocate, the Green Party has every time gone out saying that the Minister should relate to the wording of the January Agreement. In other words, it will be a little difficult to take the Minister's words seriously. It is not possible to blame the parliamentary situation, because there is support for the proposals that I know the Minister would like to see too. We on the Christian Democrats' side have tabled a proposal for a salary floor around the Swedish average wage for a free labour migration, together with a nutrition test for those jobs where the monthly salary is less than the same but there is a shortage of labour in Sweden. This proposal has been supported by the Swedish Democrats, but the Left Party has also made a positive statement. Now, most recently, even the Moderates have changed their mind and have also formulated a proposal for a salary floor. So there is now a broad parliamentary possibility, if there is a will. The question then is what is most important. Is it to bring about a new regulatory framework that would make it possible to stop the abuse in, for example, assistance and thus actually honour the promises made to the voters during the election process? Or is this part negotiated with the Green Party so that they can continue to dictate the conditions for the Social Democrats to remain in power?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-462	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes these debates actually get a little parody. After all, it was the Alliance Government and the Christian Democrats who introduced the rules that are now being cheated on. Now Hans Eklind is barking at me because I am not changing them again quickly enough, even though it was we Social Democrats who once said that this will lead to precisely cheating, fiffles and labour exploitation. What if the Christian Democrats had listened to us then? What if you had listened to LO and the other trade union movements and the critics that existed then? We would never have ended up in the situation we are in today. But it was also thanks to the report that came in autumn 2019 from the twelve authorities working against organised crime that we got the political pressure on the old alliance parties that we now have, so that they have now turned. Some have turned completely, 180 degrees, and others have adjusted their positions to a lesser extent so that today we have a different parliamentary situation than we had just a few years ago. I think that's good. Now more and more parties join the Social Democratic line as it has been from the very beginning. This gives me a greater scope to really, in depth, be able to reform these rules. It was, as I said, the Christian Democrats who were involved in introducing the rules, and now Hans Eklind is blaming the Green Party and saying that it is really their fault everything. No, that logic doesn't work. Now we are taking this issue for business and regulation of the regulatory framework and reforming the system. As I said, I have just received a first interim report from the investigation, in which we propose the introduction of a supply requirement for the relatives who come here. This alone means that the effective wage threshold is adjusted up. Today it is about $15,000. If dependents are required, an income of up to 30,000 is needed to bring a family with two children here. This alone means a clear improvement and will also have a bearing on the cheating of personal assistance. This is made easier when there are no supply requirements for relatives. This will mean a lot. Our plan is to be able to present these proposals to Parliament in the autumn so that we can have an entry into force on 1 January. That is one part, that is, supply requirements for the relatives. The second part is about extending the controls on what rules, conditions and salaries you actually have. We have a situation where this system has led people to work for SEK 30 an hour and live in a basement, or at worst sleep two three meters from the stove they work at during the day. That's what it looks like. This is the case when you let go of the regulations completely freely and everything should only be done on the employer's terms. We want to introduce increased control facilities. If the terms are negotiated down after coming to Sweden, this must be notified to the Migration Agency. If it is not done and it then emerges afterwards that people have had to work on conditions that are worse than what was once promised, it will be punishable for the employer in question. That is the proposal. The investigator also has the task of looking specifically at what we call the circular framework, i.e. bringing here people who themselves have a disability and, so to speak, can form their own market. The investigator is currently doing a survey of this, and the result will, as I said, be in the autumn. I look forward to being able to come forward with further proposals based on that investigation and that report when it comes in the autumn.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-472	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says, "What if you've listened then, ten years ago?" My answer, what if you do something here and now? It is so incredibly clear that this cannot be allowed to continue and that the rules on labour immigration must be changed if fraud, crime and exploitation are to be tackled. I hear, of course, that my real opponent is probably not the Minister at all, but his partner parties, the Green Party, the Liberals and, not least, the Center Party, who want to retain much of what we have today. Here in this House, a few weeks ago, I asked Prime Minister Stefan Löfven about his view that it is now possible to obtain parliamentary support for a framework for labour immigration that puts an end to the immigration of labour into occupations where there is no shortage of labour. The Christian Democrats, as I said, just over a year ago put forward our proposal for a salary floor together with, if the salary is below the average salary of SEK 35 000, a nutrition test that shows that it is a job in a shortage profession. The Prime Minister would probably not have listened carefully enough to our proposal, for he reflexed himself and replied that he could imagine a salary floor, all sorts of variants, but that he wants a test. That is exactly what we Christian Democrats are proposing. We must do something now, because assistance payments are so important. It is a prerequisite for many people with disabilities to live their lives in the same way as people without disabilities. Add an additional directive immediately to investigate this particular issue with a salary floor and a nutrition test! It's not harder than that. We called for this a year ago by the Christian Democrats, but then the Social Democrats voted against it. On the basis of the parliamentary situation, the Social Democrats must now choose what is most important: is it to honour the promises, given the parliamentary opportunity, or is it to remain in power with the help of the Green Party and through the January agreement?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-479	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps if you want something said, you should ask a Christian Democrat and if you want something done, you should ask a Social Democrat. The Christian Democrats can have a policy of opposition and a completely different policy of government, and that is exactly what we have seen right now. The policy of government was total liberalism and the most generous rules in the world. That's what you pushed through then. But in the politics of opposition you have turned 180 degrees and have a completely different position. It can also be seen that the other parties have done so, under the pressure of reality, of course, because it has been shown that these rules have been so wrong. Then we will reform them and do so with one step at a time. I have received a partial report on, for example, supply requirements for relatives and on better monitoring of the conditions under which they work. Then the investigator also has an open mandate to look at the circular states, but also at what other measures need to be taken to reduce fraud and fraud. We'll see what the investigator finds out in that part in November. However, I can assure Mr Eklind that I see it as one of the most important tasks of this parliamentary term to reform labour immigration rules, so that taxpayers' money is used in the way it is to be used and so that we can prevent the human exploitation and exploitation that, unfortunately, is taking place in many of our workplaces too much today. I can promise Hans Eklind that this is one of the most important tasks ahead.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-483	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Strandman has asked me if the government has considered handing over the licensing of lawyers to a state authority and if not what is the reason for it taking. Lawyers have a central role in our legal system. Through their protected title, lawyers have a special trust but also a special responsibility. Those who hire a lawyer should be able to feel confident in obtaining high-quality legal advice and that the lawyer complies with the ethical rules that apply. It is, of course, unacceptable for a lawyer to violate the rules in force. In such cases, there shall be severe penalties. In the Code of Criminal Procedure there are clear rules on who can become a lawyer and what disciplinary measures can be taken against lawyers who do not comply with their obligations. It also states that lawyers are obliged to follow good law. A law amendment in 2018 extended the rules on the exclusion of lawyers. Then they have the opportunity to exclude a lawyer from the Bar Association if he or she has been guilty of crimes outside of the lawyer's business. Last year, the Swedish Bar Association's disciplinary board settled over 200 cases, 159 of which resulted in disciplinary sanctions. In three of these cases, exclusion was decided. The independent supervisory role of the Bar Association reflects the independence of lawyers in a democratic society. In parallel, the Chancellor of Justice has an insight into disciplinary activities and the possibility to intervene if necessary. The system ensures the independence of lawyers while at the same time meeting society's need for transparency and scrutiny. This is a good and long-functioning order. When the issue of increased State interference in the supervision of lawyers was last investigated, it was concluded that such an option would not bring any tangible benefits and could also threaten the independence of the profession. I know that the Swedish Bar Association is actively working on ethical issues, including through educational efforts and proactive supervision. Recently, the Bar Association set up a working group to review penalties in disciplinary matters. Representatives of the Swedish Courts, the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Law Corps have also recently developed common rules of action for professional actors in the courtroom to provide guidance for lawyers, judges and prosecutors acting in court. The accusations that have recently been made against certain individual lawyers are serious. The information is currently subject to review by the Bar Association and the Supreme Court. I have full confidence in these bodies and will follow developments on these issues closely.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-489	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! Mr President, I would like to In the autumn of 2019, a debate erupted in the media about defence lawyers who have come to represent criminal clans and gangs. The debate was initiated by the fact that a senior prosecutor in the daily press wrote an article on this worrying development. The prosecutor wrote in his article that the lawsuit in the courtroom had been rather unpleasant, because the lawyers had a pretty tough jargon. They were provocative and even made personal attacks on witnesses and police officers. In the end, it was a matter of security in the courtroom, for the lawyers had taken on a little gangster attribute and tried to get sympathy from the defendant's friends in the gallery. It was also suspected that the defense attorneys leaked preliminary investigations. They violated disclosure bans and were also suspected of being some form of communication channel for the defendants to their environment, so that they could influence the preliminary investigations by eliminating evidence, influencing witnesses and obtaining false alibis for the detainees with restrictions. This article received quite quickly a reply from the Bar Association, which claimed that these were sweeping accusations without objective basis, that it was generalizing and basically an insult to the Law Corps. But the senior prosecutor then received support from some forty other prosecutors. Even police officers and some community lawyers agreed that this is a worrying development. Unfortunately, may I say, reality has caught up. We have been able to follow one case in the media after another, where the image provided by the prosecutors has been confirmed. When there are so many prosecutors – 40 prosecutors are quite a large part of the Swedish Prosecution Service – and also police officers and lawyers who confirm this, I think the Bar Association could have a slightly more humble attitude and discuss this problem, which actually seems to be real. However, once the cases have been dealt with by the Swedish Bar Association's Disciplinary Board, very controversial decisions have been made. Among other things, a defense attorney has represented a criminal clan in Gothenburg on no less than 27 occasions. Although the Disciplinary Board of the Bar Association found that he had committed serious violations on several occasions and violated the restrictions of the prisoner, he did not lose his legal title, but he got away with a small fine that is actually coffee money given how much he draws in. My question to the Minister for Justice is: does it not have to be some kind of up-and-coming, even if they are allowed to look at themselves, to make this work?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-496	Mr President, I would like to This is essentially a fairly important question of principle, since it concerns the state's relationship with the Bar Corps. My position is that the legal profession should have an independent and independent position in relation to the state. A lawyer basically has a loyalty, and that's it to his client. It is important to mark. At the same time, of course, they must comply with the ethical rules that exist and of course also with good law. My point is that there must be a distance of respect between the state and the law. This is important, and as a representative of the government, I intend to keep this distance of respect. The Swedish Democrats have a different attitude and talk about nationalising the legal profession. I would strongly advise against this. This is often seen in authoritarian states where lawyers are part of the state apparatus. In that direction, I certainly do not want to go. Of course, supervision and control must work, which I think it essentially does. We have over 6,000 lawyers in Sweden, and most of them do a very good job, often under difficult conditions. Of course, in such a large group there are individuals who make mistakes and who may be directly unsuitable for their assignment. Then you should be able to take disciplinary action and in serious cases also be able to exclude them from the community – and just as I said in my interpellation response, so is it. Last year there were 159 disciplinary sanctions of which 3 exclusions. The Disciplinary Board of the Swedish Bar Association also has public representatives, and these three members are appointed by the Government. There is therefore also transparency in this control. I will not go into any individual matters and also advise Mikael Strandman against that. I do not think that we should do so, but respect the processes that exist in individual cases. Following the discussion that has taken place, the Bar Association has initiated a process to review the sanctions. The highest penalties have not been increased since 1997, and one looks at this issue among other things. This process should be completed during the spring, and the result can be a basis for the government if legislative changes are needed. Basically, I think the system works well, but it is good that the Bar Association has initiated this process in response to the criticism that has occurred.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-504	Mr President, I would like to I don't really agree. Many cases have been revealed, but since this debate flared up a year and a half ago, none of the so-called gangster lawyers have lost their legal title. I see a problem with an organization examining itself. Independence has no intrinsic value if, ultimately, it becomes, a little topped up, a group of back-dumping colleagues without moral compass that examines themselves. There are always problems when a group is going to examine itself. This is why audits are always made by outsiders, for example. Even if one were not to put it under a government authority, one could do some kind of arrangement, much like with the JO. Then there is an independent body that externally examines this. It is impossible to escape the fact that there is self-interest. If you choose to keep them examining themselves, there are things you can do to control things. It would be possible to establish in the Code of Criminal Procedure when a lawyer violates the restrictions of the person in custody and the privilege of one-bedroom is not sanctified. One-room privilege means that the lawyer and the prisoner can talk in private and in private without anyone listening. But one condition for it to work is that the lawyer does not become a messenger to the prisoner to his surroundings in order to influence witnesses, obtain false alibis or give other cogent information so that it can fake a consensus and get away with it. A violation of the sanctity of one-bedroom privileges should automatically lead to exclusion. One problem is that when it is discovered that a lawyer is in breach of this, there is no possibility to temporarily suspend the lawyer. There is no interim suspension. It's a little weird, because in all the other professions you have it. If a doctor who operates on a heart patient is drunk as an alika, that doctor must not operate on another heart patient the following week. And a pilot flying hugely drunk across the Atlantic is not allowed to fly next week. Both the doctor and the pilot will be suspended until there is a judicial review. Perhaps this should also apply to lawyers. Since there are for some reason very long processing times in the Swedish Bar Association's Disciplinary Board, lawyers who turn out to be unfit may have lots of other cases and may, in the meantime, continue to violate the restrictions and provide information to the detainees and their associates. In this way, a preliminary investigation can be postponed by, for example, eliminating evidence. In addition to costing a lot of money, this can ultimately lead to the acquittal of the person who has committed a serious crime, such as a murder. We could therefore promote the possibility of interim suspension.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-512	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Strandman says the lawyers are looking into themselves. That's not entirely true. The Chancellor of Justice has a role and can intervene. In addition, the public has three representatives on the Disciplinary Board and is therefore transparent in the work on the individual cases. The Bar Association is now reviewing the sanctions, and the result will come in the spring. I am, of course, prepared to implement the legislative changes that may need to be made in order to further tighten the system. However, I am not prepared to switch to a national legal system. I think it is the authoritarian reflexes of the Swedish democrats that haunt here. I don't think they really understand how important it is to have an independent and independent law firm that you can trust and know is free from the state. It is one of the cornerstones of a functioning rule of law. However, there must always be proper rules within the system to separate those who are unfit for this profession from the profession. We have such a system. Mikael Strandman talks about gross abuse, like cheating with evidence and violations of restrictions, and they are grounds for exclusion. Last year, what three lawyers said was excluded. The previous year, too, lawyers were excluded. So this happens from time to time. I think we should be careful about this balance. A distance of respect must apply between the State and the Law Corps. I am not going to step in the direction that the Swedish Democrats want, i.e. in practice the national lawyers' corps. I believe that there must be a good balance, but I am, of course, prepared to tighten the regulatory framework on the basis of the current work of the Bar Association.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-517	Mr President, I would like to In our neighbouring country, Norway, the State Authority is reviewing lawyers in Norway, so it does not have to be an authoritarian state. You can also have a similar regime as the JO, which is quite free from the state and is quite independent. The Minister mentions that three lawyers were expelled last year. On average, approximately one lawyer per year is excluded, and Sweden has over 6,000 lawyers. So that's a very small percentage. I believe that if we now choose to allow the Bar Association to continue to examine itself, it is absolutely essential that we steer this into the Code of Criminal Procedure so that those who violate the restrictions can be temporarily suspended. Of course, they should have a fair hearing in the Disciplinary Board, but they should not be able to operate during that time. Then they will lose their ID if they commit gross abuse. E nomsprivilege is based on mutual trust, that one sanctifies it and does not become any kind of messenger to be detained with restrictions so that they can shoot preliminary investigations in mind. Then I think it is important to look at the ethical-moral part. When lawyers behave so inappropriately that they participate as extras in a gangster rap video that is recorded in a courtroom and where gangster rappers are rapping about pissing on the Swedish legal system and about how many crimes they have committed, I think you have to look at that part too. If you behave inappropriately and unethically, you should be suspended. This, too, must be steered up.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-521	Mr President, I would like to It once again sounds at Mikael Strandman as if the state has no role at all in these matters, but it has, through the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice has a supervisory role and receives all decisions made by the Swedish Bar Association's Disciplinary Board and is also able to appeal the decisions to the Supreme Court. One of the cases is actually appealed and now lies with the Supreme Court, so that part works in such a way that the state has a role in monitoring the functioning of the system. I would like to say that there is no significant difference in relation to other countries. The most common thing in different countries is that there is a distance between state and law enforcement, precisely so that you do not confuse your roles and so that you can trust that a lawyer's primary duty is in relation to his client and not to anyone else. I look forward to what the process in the Bar Association can lead to. It should be ready in the spring. If legislative changes and changes and tightening of the regulatory framework need to be made, we will of course deliver them to the Riksdag. But I'm not prepared to go into a situation where we're doing a system shift and nationalizing the lawyers' corps. Then, I mean, one would cross the important fundamental boundaries that one must have in a state governed by the rule of law.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-524	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked me if I intend to take any steps to strengthen the status of Swedish citizenship and create incentives for foreigners in Sweden to work towards obtaining Swedish citizenship. The report on language and social literacy requirements for citizenship and other issues of citizenship(Jear 2019:08) made proposals on 13 January this year regarding requirements for knowledge of Swedish and basic social knowledge for Swedish citizenship and how these can be implemented in practice. The purpose of the study's proposal is to strengthen the status of citizenship and promote an inclusive society. Knowledge of Swedish and social sciences is a key to work and to getting into Swedish society. The proposals aim to increase people's opportunities to become active citizens of society, to exercise their rights and to understand their obligations. The report has recently been referred. The introduction of language and social literacy requirements for Swedish citizenship is part of the January Agreement, and the Government is keen to implement it. Swedish citizenship is highly sought after. Citizenship means an unconditional right to enter and reside in Sweden and gives the Riksdag the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. Citizenship opens the door to professions such as police, judges and the military. Very few passports provide the opportunity to visit as many countries without visa requirements as the Swedish one. The incentives for applying for Swedish citizenship are therefore many and strong. The proposals currently being prepared aim to promote an inclusive society and contribute to a better balance between rights and obligations for those who want to become Swedish citizens.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-527	Mr President, I would like to For a long time, the value of holding a Swedish citizenship when living in Sweden has fallen. In most other states, citizenship is central and valuable. The process of obtaining it is often long and demanding, and the day it is obtained is a fundamentally revolutionary day for the recipient. In these cases, the individual is legally assigned a citizenship of a new state, but he also feels that he is at the same time a new nation. The main loyalty is transferred from the country of origin to the country of destination, and the individual is therefore given an exclusive incentive to act constructively in his new home country. In Sweden, on the other hand, citizenship seems to be more or less handed out in cereal packages, and we are discerning in the world by giving privileges in the country repeatedly to those who do not have in the country to do instead of those who are citizens of our state. The Swedish Democrats have consistently criticized and opposed this order because it has contributed to the segregation and division we see in Sweden. If we are ever to assimilate those who have come here, we must raise the status of Swedish citizenship and ensure that it is not distributed to anyone. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, I have asked two questions to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, on the one hand, whether the Minister intends to take any steps to strengthen the status of Swedish citizenship, and on the other hand whether the Minister intends to take any measures to create incentives for foreigners in Sweden to work towards obtaining Swedish citizenship. I feel that Morgan Johansson answers only the first question, Mr President, when Morgan Johansson refers exclusively to the study on language and social sciences for citizenship and other issues of citizenship. I would like to emphasise that I am pleased that the introduction of language and social literacy requirements to obtain Swedish citizenship is part of the January agreement, and it is positive that the study that Morgan Johansson mentions came up with an interim report on 458 pages now in January. Depending on how the government chooses to proceed with the report of the investigation, there is a possibility that we raise the requirements for obtaining Swedish citizenship, although the sub-report places too low demands and leaves some to be desired. Having said that, it can be criticised that we do not yet have a language requirement in place. The issue was raised already 20 years ago but then came upon patrol from among others the Social Democrats. Furthermore, the Social Democrats have now been running for almost seven years without getting it in place, and now that the issue has finally been addressed, the amendment is proposed to enter into force only on 1 January 2025. Mr President, I would like to The cynical would think that it is not by chance that the proposals will not become a reality in this term of office because it gives the Social Democrats plenty of time to change their minds again.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-536	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can say that Tobias Andersson's entry into this discussion is totally wrong and is based on completely incorrect premises. He seems to think that there is no incentive for people to want to become Swedish citizens because it does not matter whether they are Swedish citizens or not. How can it be that we have a record number of applicants for Swedish citizenship? That's how it is. We have had a record number of applicants in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 – people who want to become Swedish citizens. If it does not matter whether you are a Swedish citizen or not and there are no differences, why do people want to become Swedish citizens? I have two answers to that question. One is the Swedish passport, which is one of the strongest passports that citizens can have throughout the world. It provides access and access to the most countries in the world. Why is this the case? Because Swedes and Sweden in general have a very good reputation in the rest of the world. It is a reputation that has been built up for many years, not least under Social Democratic rule and Social Democratic foreign policy, security policy and welfare policy. The strength of the Swedish passport is proof that Sweden is a country that very many, far beyond our borders, actually admire and look up to. I'm very proud of that. That's why people want to become citizens of Sweden. It is because they want to be part of the community that we have in our country. Then there are other things, such as the right to vote, the right to stand as a candidate for Parliament and the possibility of a profession that requires that you be a Swedish citizen. But the assertion that Tobias Andersson lays the foundation for his interpellation – that it doesn't matter if you are a Swedish citizen – is actually completely wrong. More people than ever want to become Swedish citizens. And we are dealing with all these applications. Then there is the question of which limits should apply and which requirements should be made. As I said, we are working on a proposal. It is quite wrong when Tobias Andersson says that you only distribute Swedish citizenship that you distribute things in a cereal package. Every application for citizenship is preceded by a thorough examination, including a practical examination of whether you have lived an honest life. Then there are also limits to how long you need to have been in Sweden in order to be able to apply for citizenship. So what Tobias Andersson says is completely wrong. In addition, it is possible to discuss what additional requirements should be made. That is precisely the discussion that has been held. In the negotiations on the January Agreement, we agreed to introduce a language requirement and requirements for basic knowledge of the functioning of Swedish society. I received the report of the investigation a few months ago. We are now working on these legislative proposals, and we will continue to do so. Tobias Andersson does not need to be in doubt about whether or not we are going to do this, but we are determined to do this. Why is this important? In order to be able to manage and function as a citizen of Sweden, I think that one should have basic knowledge of the language that most of us speak, that is, Swedish. It should therefore be possible to set such a limit. It is the same when it comes to social literacy requirements. I think these are quite reasonable demands that a lot of other countries are making. Then I am prepared to do so also for the Swedish part.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-545	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, perfectly reasonable to require language skills for people who come to Sweden before they receive Swedish citizenship. It is therefore extremely worrying that this is not yet the case. Although the government that Morgan Johansson himself is part of has had the opportunity to implement this for several years, nothing has happened yet. The proposal put forward by Morgan Johansson will not become a reality until 1 January 2025. If I had been Morgan Johansson, therefore, I would have been careful to be far too proud, looking at what measures have actually been taken in this area. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, it is quite clear that the government has so far done too little to strengthen the status of Swedish citizenship, although I would like to emphasise once again that the investigation that has now come is positive. But even if the investigation's proposals were made, they would be delayed. And even if they were to become reality in the future, it's too little. We need to take more steps to strengthen the status of Swedish citizenship than can be found in the investigation. Among other things, we need to review which parts of the welfare net should actually have the right to access as a foreigner in Sweden. Of course, everyone who lives here must be entitled to emergency medical care, but not necessarily much more than that. Why? Because it undeniably strengthens the status of Swedish citizenship if it is associated with rights that not all the peoples of the world receive anyway if they happen to be here. In addition, to move on to the second question that I asked in the interpellation, it strengthens the incentive for foreigners in Sweden to work to obtain Swedish citizenship. Today, foreigners who have come to Sweden rationally may reason that they have certain advantages if they choose to live illegally here rather than go through a proper asylum process and eventually obtain Swedish citizenship. Mr President, I would like to What I am referring to here is that the Social Democrats and others were put in a system to reward illegal foreigners in front of Swedes. This has been done at different levels, both at municipal level and through decisions here in Parliament. For example, illegal immigrants receive free dental care while Swedish pensioners refrain from dental care because they cannot afford it. In Social Democratically controlled Malmö, financial aid is paid out to illegals. And recently it was first stated that illegal would be one of the groups that would be given priority in the vaccination queue. Mr President, I would like to We are talking about individuals who have chosen to deviate from the regular asylum process and people who have been refused their asylum application but have chosen to go underground instead of leaving the country. By living in a shadow society, they not only depart from Swedish laws and regulations, but also pose a threat. This is something that Sweden has unfortunately learned the hard way, although the Social Democrats have not yet learned that lesson. Citizenship shall be linked to both rights and obligations. Today, however, many Swedes are probably asking themselves whether illegal immigrants do not receive more rights in certain aspects than we do, while at the same time we are alone in the obligations.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-557	Mr President, I would like to What separates us is I think I am proud of Sweden, while Tobias Andersson seems to be most ashamed of Sweden. This is consistently the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats on almost all issues. After a speech, Tobias Andersson is back again on the theme that he always takes up and devotes himself to, namely the parade branch of inciting immigrants and putting groups against each other. All of this is often based on lies, distortion of facts, prejudices, and ill - informed assertions. I'll start with the undocumented. The interpellation claims that undocumented people are a special priority group for receiving vaccines. No, they're not. They were included as an example of a vulnerable group in what the Public Health Agency went out with at the beginning. But it was removed after only a few hours. They are therefore not a very priority group for obtaining vaccines. No, undocumented people also do not have access to health care straight up and down for free. They have access to care that cannot stand up, as it is said, i.e. care interventions to avoid dying or not to get very serious but. Then the question is: Is it reasonable for undocumented people to have the right to treatment that cannot stand, so that they do not die or get serious but for life? Is that reasonable or unreasonable? Actually, I think that's reasonable. It's called humanity. Perhaps Tobias Andersson should familiarise himself with the concept of humanity. The discussion on citizenship is also based on – you can hear it if you listen between the lines to what Tobias Andersson says – the Swedish Democrats' view of Swedishness that is exclusive. It is perhaps most evident in Björn Söder's statement that Jews and Sami cannot be Swedes. It is based on the way the Swedish democrats view Swedishness. Who is Swedish, and who is not Swedish? For me, the person who is a Swedish citizen is also Swedish on equal terms with all of us. It doesn't matter what hair color you have, what skin color you have, what religion you have, what festivals you celebrate; you're Swedish on equal terms with everyone else. You can still belong to a minority but still be Swedish. So you know our Jew and Swedish. You can be Muslim and Swedish. You can actually be acting and Swedish as well. The inclusive citizenship and the inclusive Swedishness are what I stand for, while the Swedish Democrats stand for something quite different, namely the exclusive and what should be reserved only for some. A few years ago you had a reasoning in your principle program about inherited essence, Tobias Andersson, that is, what somehow characterizes certain groups and somehow inherits. The same old-fashioned right-wing mystique that you then had in your principle programmes goes again in this debate. Again: For me, citizenship and Swedishness are inclusive. It is about creating a community between all of us who live in this country and that that community should be equal for all and build on equal conditions. This does not mean that people are not required to apply for citizenship, but rather the opposite – in order for us to be able to act as citizens on equal terms, everyone should have basic knowledge of how Swedish society works and also basic knowledge of the Swedish language. Anyone who has well conquered it and is a Swedish citizen should, however, be seen as just like all other people. Then it is also a matter of living up to both rights and obligations, as everyone in our country should.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-566	Mr President, I would like to The government made quite a few unworthy attacks on me rather answered the question I asked, which prompted the interpellation. Let's take one thing at a time. I am quite convinced that most agree that inheritance and environment have an interaction to influence an individual's personality; it is not an extreme right-wing view. In addition, I said in my previous post that illegal absolutely should be entitled to emergency care, but I am not convinced that it includes dental care, as is the case at present. In addition, it is like this: I am proud of Sweden, but I am ashamed of the government we have and of the headlines Sweden is associated with worldwide related to the widespread gang crime and the gross rapes. I am ashamed that we are one of the countries that currently have by far the most rape reports and so on. I am ashamed of every time the government's failed policy generates bad headlines abroad as a consequence of failure to establish security and security in our country. I'm ashamed of that, but basically I'm proud to be part of our nation-- of course. Furthermore, Morgan Johansson talks about me putting a group against a group. That is exactly what the government is doing at the moment. It is, of course, the case that the citizen is a citizen of the Swedish State, and that is the group for which we have primary responsibility as representatives of Sweden and the Swedish citizens. Then illegal in this case is another group. The difference between us is that I believe that the group of Swedish citizens should be associated with the rights they deserve because they also have obligations towards Sweden, while Morgan Johansson, on the contrary, believes that it is they who are here illegally who should have rights in front of the Swedes. That is where we differ, Mr President.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-570	Mr President, I would like to No, I think we differ on a lot more points. Just as I did in my previous speech, there is a difference between the Swedish Democrats and the other parties in their view of who can be regarded as Swedish. When Björn Söder says that those who are Jewish or Sami cannot be Swedish, I wonder if they can be Swedish if they are Muslim. This is the question that separates the Swedish Democrats from the other parties – the exclusive Swedishness. You do not want to accept that Sweden consists of all the different ethnic, linguistic and religious elements that exist in our country, Tobias Andersson. I stand instead of an inclusive Swedishness that says that those who live up to certain requirements – of course – and get a Swedish citizenship should be part of our community. I will never resort to rhetoric where we point out individual groups in the way that the Swedish Democrats do all the time. Then the question is how strong Swedish citizenship is. Is that something to seek? As I said in my first post, the Swedish passport is something that is sought by more people than ever. It is sought, respected and admired by people all over the world. This is a consequence of the fact that for decades we have actually managed our country in a way that has caused a lot of people to see with pride on Sweden. I am proud of that, and therefore I am proud of Sweden as a whole. I am proud of our place in the world and of the role we play in the world. However, I never hear the Swedish Democrats put such things forward in any international fora, but where the Swedish Democrats are active in international media, on the contrary, it is only a matter of smearing Sweden. That, Mr President, is something I feel a great and very uncomfortable about.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-575	Mr President, I would like to Kjell Jansson has asked me what support measures I and the government presented during the year, what effects these had on the hospitality and restaurant industry and what support measures I intend to adjust. Furthermore, he has asked what further measures and emergency aid I and the government intend to take in order not to risk further increases in unemployment and more bankruptcies. Since the pandemic began, the Government has submitted 16 additional amending budgets to the Riksdag in addition to the usual spring and autumn amending budgets, the budget bill and the spring economic bill. These include historically significant measures to reduce the spread of infection and to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on people, jobs and businesses. Overall, the measures are estimated to cost over SEK 370 billion for 2020 and 2021. A large number of these measures have been aimed at the business sector, and the Government has submitted several proposals to the Riksdag in January 2021 to ensure that companies and self-employed people who continue to need support receive it. The Parliament has decided, on a proposal from the Government, to extend and strengthen conversion aid, to extend and strengthen aid to individual traders and to introduce new aid aimed at partnerships. In addition, there will be State aid for rental costs during the period January – March 2021. Funds have been allocated to specific aid in the event of a decision to close operations, a shutdown aid. The closure aid is designed in a similar way to the conversion aid but is more generous. Furthermore, following a Government proposal, the rules for short-term work support have been amended so that employers can receive support until 30 June 2021, and the support has been strengthened with a new level of working time reduction of 80 per cent during the period January – March 2021. Nearly 600 000 Swedes have been on short-term leave during the crisis, thus avoiding the risk of losing their jobs. In addition, the temporary reduction in employers' contributions for 19- to 23-year-olds has been brought forward with effect from 1 January of this year. New rules have been introduced which substantially extend the scope for deferred tax payments, inter alia, in order to extend the grace period and to allow for a period of grace for more accounting periods. The SME credit guarantee scheme has also been extended. In addition, the State continues to pay the sick pay costs of companies beyond the normal level. The hospitality and restaurant industry is one of the most affected sectors, and it is therefore a good thing that it is also one of the industries that has received the most support. Sweden is in an extraordinary situation with great uncertainty about the further development of the pandemic. The Government continues to analyse the need for measures and compensation on an ongoing basis and will return to the Riksdag if deemed necessary.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-581	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. Some view private enterprise as a dangerous tiger. Others view it as a cow for milking. Too few people realize it's the horse that pulls the load. These words are really topical today, and they come from legend Winston Churchill. Much has been done in terms of business support, as the Minister of Finance says, and many decisions have been taken. The problem is to execute them. That's where the problem lies, and that's why I've put the interpellation. The question remains: why does the government make it so difficult for companies to obtain the aid they have applied for and are entitled to? Many companies have still not received aid even though the application was submitted in spring 2020. Why this disregard? Why the inefficiency of the authorities? In a number of EU countries, aid is paid out fairly quickly. Checks are carried out in parallel and retrospectively to make this work and to ensure that companies do not fail in the meantime. Mr President, I would like to Why this suspicion of businesses? Everything is checked meticulously and with surgical precision before the subsidies are paid out. The companies are the cow being milked, the Minister for Finance. For decades, most of these companies have paid many billions of taxes and employers' contributions. Of the 546 million paid out in conversion aid, the Swedish Tax Agency has recovered 32 million due to errors in the application. That's 6%. It is therefore 94% of the conversion aid that is right when examining and 6% that is wrong. The smaller companies are getting hurt, and we see that several are being forced to go bankrupt. Many employees lose their jobs. Many small businesses and family entrepreneurs lose their lives with which they have worked for generations. They can go back three or four generations, and companies fail because they do not receive timely support. A woman I'm familiar with some time ago called me and cried on the phone. She said, "How am I supposed to do, Kjell?" I have two teenage daughters and my little company, and I have my rent to pay. She said I'm in despair. What am I doing? I'm afraid I didn't have all the answers to give her. I tried to give her advice on what to do. Mr President, I would like to The latest forecast, which came this week, signals that the bankruptcies in the restaurant industry have increased by 48 per cent since the turn of the year. How many companies does the government want to go bankrupt due to covid-19? How many companies does the government want to go bankrupt? The whole restaurant business is in decay. Why so short notice of opening hours? Two days earlier, the last commandment was to be open until 22. A few days before it came into effect, it was announced that one could not be open until 20.00 and that it would be closed at 20.30. Why so short a reply from day to day, and why so vague?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-593	Mr President, I would like to Kjell Jansson asked why the government extended the rule that you can only serve alcohol until 8 p.m. This was because we had a significantly increased risk of transmission; that was why the government chose to extend this restriction. Kjell Jansson says he doesn't have all the answers. I can tell Kjell Jansson that he has a lot more answers than he had had if the person or entrepreneur in question had called during the financial crisis. How this government has handled a crisis situation differs significantly from how the Moderates chose to deal with it when they were in government. During the financial crisis we saw a deindustrialisation of Sweden and industrial companies that failed and then never came back. It is against this background that the government has chosen to act quite differently during this crisis. We have not only used the tax deferrals that existed during the financial crisis, but we have also come up with a wide range of support, such as short-term lay-off, precisely so that companies can quickly reduce their personnel costs and still retain staff to be able to expand quickly. This has helped not least many industrial companies but also many restaurants. In addition, we have the conversion aid, the rental subsidy and the turnover subsidy to directly support companies that have it very tricky. Not least in the restaurant industry, many people have a very tough time, and it is good that this is also one of the industries that has received the most support. As regards the conversion aid, new applications were opened on 25 February. Since then, the Swedish Tax Agency has already paid out SEK 85 million in conversion aid. There, the processing time is about a week, unless for some reason one is stuck in a check and it is suspected that something is wrong. As far as the new tax deferrals are concerned, over 5 billion have already been paid out. This is a welcome liquidity injection in the Swedish business community. It is an extremely tough situation in the business world. The government's support is being paid out right now, but Kjell Jansson has far more answers than he would have had if the entrepreneurs had heard from him during the financial crisis.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-600	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Minister of Finance raises the issue of the financial crisis because our then Minister of Finance Anders Borg – Magdalena Andersson's representative – received great praise throughout Europe and the EU for being skilled in dealing with the financial crisis. It was hardly noticed here in Sweden that there was a financial crisis. It was handled very professionally. I myself was the chairman of the council at the time, and everything was done fantastically. I think it was exemplary. It was also a little more consistent and not as twitchy as it is now; the government is perceived as quite desperate by and to. The worst affected are the tourism and hotel industries, which have lost up to 90 percent of their turnover. The hook industry has lost an average of 75% of turnover, the Minister for Finance. But it will be good now when you are going to sit alone and have dinner at the restaurant; then it will not be anyone who goes there. This is probably the latest proposal that has come. Other EU countries have received the aid quickly – they have first made the payment and then made the check. Mr President, I would like to From Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south, the staff are standing in the restaurant business every day at 3 p.m. and roaring with their pots. The support that has been paid out has mainly been promoted by Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates in the Finance Committee. I have the whole report with me; the Minister for Finance can have it after the debate. My question is still: why does the Minister of Finance not want to act in order for aid to be paid out more quickly and for business to suffer less harm from Corona? Mr President, I would like to Viable entrepreneurship is superior to a country like Sweden, which has a market economy. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government does not understand this better. At the same time, the government is planning new reforms that make it less profitable to work, such as a family week at an estimated cost of 18 billion and a study year with 80 percent of the salary when you can find anything and study a year without a long-term strategy.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-608	Mr President, I would like to Kjell Jansson says that the financial crisis was hardly noticed in Sweden. Kjell Jansson must have lived in a different reality from ordinary people. According to Statistics Sweden, the global financial crisis in 2008-2009 is the event that has affected unemployment most in Sweden since 2000. People lost their jobs. Industry closed down. Companies moved out of the country. People lacked livelihood. But Kjell Jansson didn't notice anything. Local government lost tax revenue. Home workers and health workers had to run faster and faster because the moderate-led government did not compensate for the falling tax revenues, unlike this government, which has more than compensated for the tax revenues that have been reduced for municipalities and regions. We had tremendously pressured operations in municipalities and regions around the country. But Kjell Jansson didn't notice anything and still doesn't seem to have noticed anything. It says something about a lack of reality. The rest of us noticed that something happened.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-610	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Minister of Finance wants to talk about the financial crisis and not about what the interpellation is about, namely support for companies. As I mentioned, I was the chairman of the municipal board at the time. The municipalities managed the economy without major problems, at least all the municipalities here in the Stockholm region. Of course, the tax revenue went down, but we had taken it up and had reserves. Now the government has chosen to tip out quite a lot of money on the municipalities, whereby the municipalities made their largest surplus in history last year. TV asked SKR's Chief Financial Officer what it was because – mainly the state aid, the answer was. So the Finance Minister and I probably don't have the same idea of what needs to be done. Of course, I also noticed that people lost their jobs during the financial crisis. But quite quickly the companies recovered. Let us return to the debate on corporate taxes and such things at the time. It's supposed to happen, too. I saw by chance the Minister of Finance of Malous's show on TV4 one day. There the Minister of Finance stated that the 3:12 tax should be increased and that she was looking forward to cooperation with the Left Party. I thought that was interesting. It was clear and good to know for us Moderates that that is the plan. The question is why the Minister of Finance is not taking action to ensure that we get support for businesses more quickly is unanswered. Instead, companies are allowed to go bankrupt and life's work is destroyed for family businesses and the like. This is the policy that Magdalena Andersson and the government are behind.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-616	Madam President, I would like The fact that companies in Sweden have a very tough and difficult situation right now, not least in industries such as hotels and restaurants, culture and events, is something that we from the government work with every day. That is also why money can now be paid out. You can get tax deferrals. You can have three months of tax payments paid back to your tax account in order to cope with the acute liquidity problems. The Tax Agency is now paying out the conversion aid. It is about a week's processing time on those subsidies, unless there is a flag because there is a problem with them. So things are happening here and now, and it's to save the companies and jobs in Sweden. It is interesting that the Moderates are so involved in this matter now. I can see that this commitment was not the same during the financial crisis, when an industrial death was swept over the country and industrial enterprises went bankrupt that have never come back. It is against this background, among other things, that we have chosen to move forward with these subsidies. We do not want this crisis to affect Sweden in the way the financial crisis did under the leadership of the Moderates.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-620	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to create reasonable and predictable tax rules for Swedish seafarers employed on Nordic flagged ships. I agree that the issue of taxation of seafarers under the Nordic tax treaty is complex. The general rule for the taxation of on-board workers on ships engaged in international traffic is set out in Article 15 of the Nordic Tax Agreement. At the request of Norway and Denmark, in particular, there are specific provisions in Article 21 on the taxation of certain workers on board vessels operating in the oil industry. In addition, there is, linked to the Nordic Tax Agreement, the bilateral so-called ferry agreement between Sweden and Denmark concerning the taxation of employees on board ferries on regular services between countries. Striving for simple and clear rules is always desirable. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that, in certain cases, the application of a tax treaty means that a person who is subject to unlimited tax in Sweden may receive income entirely exempt from taxation in Sweden. In such cases, it is inevitable that the taxable person must demonstrate that the conditions for exemption are met. The judgment referred to by Boriana Åberg has clarified how this trial should take place. Having said that, under the Nordic Tax Agreement, the taxation of on-board workers may need to be given a comprehensive lighting next time the Nordic Tax Agreement is to be renegotiated.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-623	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. A few months ago, I was contacted by a desperate sea captain. Parts of his crew had to report to the Tax Agency each individual voyage they had made with the ship they are employed on. And not only that; they also risked being taxed in both Sweden and Denmark, because of a new interpretation of what is international traffic. The issue of taxation of Swedish seamen working on ships operating throughout the Nordic region is important in principle. Previously, the main rule of the Nordic Tax Agreement has been applicable: Seamen employed on Swedish ships taxes in Sweden, and sailors employed on Danish ships taxes in Denmark, provided that the ship operates international traffic. Since ships may be present in different countries during different periods, this application creates clarity both for the individual seamen and for the employer and also for the Swedish Tax Agency. Unfortunately, a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court has stated that what should be seen as an international journey in the Nordic tax treaty must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. This means that the issue is not just about whether a ship is engaged in international traffic. On the contrary, the way in which the ship moves on each individual voyage is decisive for taxation. The new regulation creates enormous complications, especially when it comes to ships registered in Denmark which have Swedish crew on board and which operate in Sweden or in another Nordic country. Consider one example: a Swedish sailor working on a freighter flagged in Denmark. The vessel carries five containers of salmon from North Norway to Oslo. In this case, the Swedish seaman is considered taxable in Sweden for this journey. However, if the ship then continues from Oslo to Gothenburg with a new cargo, it is considered an international voyage, whereby the Swedish sailor will be taxed in Denmark. This means that the individual sailor lacks any predictability as to what income he or she will receive, how much he or she will pay in tax and in which country the tax will be paid. This creates a completely unacceptable situation, both for the individual seaman and for the employer. I would ask the Minister to imagine what it would look like if an electrician doing jobs in different municipalities were to be taxed at different municipal tax rates depending on where the job is carried out. I would like to appeal to the Minister for Finance, who still leaves a small opening at the end of his reply, to see how the problem can be resolved before the time comes to renegotiate the Nordic tax treaty. The problem must be resolved urgently.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-632	Madam President, I would like This isn't a new problem. It is a heavy administrative burden that has existed for a long time and, to be honest, not just in the case of seamen. It is difficult to avoid an administrative burden for people living and working in different, sometimes also in several different, countries. It is about the application of two countries' tax systems, but also about the application of a tax treaty. The distribution of labour income is mainly based on where the work is done. This means that you need to account for your stay over time. This is not just the case for those who work at sea. The Nordic Tax Agreement is there to avoid double taxation and to simplify living and working in different Nordic countries in different ways. But it is only possible to say that it is also complicated for all workers to live in one country and work in another. There is an increased complexity there. As far as seafarers are concerned, the system is particularly complex. This is because there are special rules for those who work on board the Swedish-Danish ferries, but also because of the special exceptions that Norway and Denmark have demanded in terms of work related to oil extraction. In addition, there is the problem of international traffic, which has also been clarified in a judgment. For ships which are partly involved in anchoring and towing, which are not considered to be cargo of goods or people, taxation shall be different from that of ships engaged in cargoing goods and people. Yes, this is very complex matter. It's been for a long time. It is one of the things you need to look at when reviewing the Nordic tax treaty. But it's nothing that's going to happen quickly, because it's complicated matter. Nor do I think we should have too high hopes that it will be simple. It becomes complicated when you work in several countries and live in another, and when there are also special rules that also differ in the different countries, which applies precisely to seamen.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Yeah, complicated is the right word. But the fact is that before that judgment came, the Nordic tax treaty could be applied as it was intended. I wonder what is hindering a return or any other solution, which I will mention in my next speech. The Minister is quite right that it is a heavy burden. It should be lifted to facilitate integration in the Nordic countries. I still think it is far too long to wait until the next negotiation of the agreement. Speaking of excessive burden, yesterday I called Terntank on Donsö, the cradle of Swedish shipping, and asked how many hours they have spent specifying the trips for each sailor who works for them. The answer was two months. For two months, two people have worked full-time to account for the travel routes of 69 seamen, only 35 of whom are full-time workers. It has taken 700 hours to completely unnecessary administration. At the same time, the Minister's colleague Ibrahim Baylan travels country and country around asking companies how to make it easier for them and make the rules easier. Here's a tip on what he should be looking at. As far as the Swedish Tax Agency is concerned, they do not have the necessary knowledge of the complexity of the shipping industry in order to be able to make the right decisions. I have received an email asking questions about maritime taxation. They show how little the Swedish Tax Agency understands and how to try to put different trips in different compartments without it being possible when it comes to a complex ship trip. For example, how do ships get their commissions? Do they have contracts for one trip at a time, or for longer periods covering several trips? If they have contracts for several trips at a time, can they in some cases be international traffic, or does a contract only cover journeys of a certain type? And so on. The ship market is different for different types of ships, but two common ways of acting on the market is to be on the spot market, i.e. the shipping company takes the loads available and drives where the customer wants, as well as to operate on time charters, i.e. a cargo owner rents the ship with crew for a certain period of time. The cargo owner then directs where the ship and crew are to go. In other words, it is completely impossible for the sailors to predict where they are going to work. If they are plagued with the poor accounts for each trip, they will end up looking for other employers or even worse becoming unemployed. We know how easy it is to get a job after a crisis; that is basically impossible. I am sure that the Minister wants people living in Sweden to work as much as possible. Why not help these sailors?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-646	Madam President, I would like The aim of the tax agreements is to avoid so-called double taxation, being taxed in two states. In order to facilitate seamen, many states have tax reductions. Sweden has also chosen to exempt seamen from taxation in Sweden, not to 100 percent but to quite a large extent. While we have those rules, it is important that it does not happen without control. The aim is to avoid double taxation. But we do not want to end up in a situation of uncontrolled double non-taxation, i.e. that we do not tax anywhere. It's one of the things that matters when we look at those rules. The reasons why it is administratively complicated are, among other things, that there are several countries involved but also that it is a tax reduction. It is for sailors not to pay taxes in Sweden that they have the administrative burdens. Of course, we need to have some knowledge that there are correct grounds for not paying taxes in Sweden. Having said that, I am well aware that this is complicated. It was complicated even before the verdict. And there is increased hassle in activities that have staff who live and work in different countries. They may also work in a number of different countries. The Nordic tax treaty is not something the government owns itself. This is something we own together with the other Nordic countries. The Swedish Government cannot itself control the content of that agreement.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-651	Madam President, I would like It is indeed important to avoid double taxation. And, of course, no one should be exempt from paying taxes. But when it comes to seamen's wages, Denmark has net wages, that is, no tax deduction is made, while Sweden applies a model with sea income. There is therefore a special tax credit for seafarers. I shall put it another way: a Swedish sailor employed on a Danish vessel receives a lower basic salary, because net wages are applied in Denmark. When the Swedish Tax Agency then wants to tax part of the income, they feel that no tax has been deducted from the salary in Denmark, with full taxation taking place. It's a kind of double taxation. That must be avoided. I promised the Minister that he would make a proposal, and I would ask the Minister to devote his final speech to commenting on it. This concerns the bilateral ferry agreement between Sweden and Denmark. Why is the same agreement not applied even to the sailors that this interpellation is about? It is much easier to reach such an agreement than to renegotiate the entire Nordic tax agreement. I believe that reasonable and predictable rules must be established as soon as possible. It is important for integration, not least in the Öresund region that is closest to me because I represent Skåne in the Riksdag. The principle that applies throughout the world, i.e. that it is estimated in the country where the ship is flagged, should also apply here.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-655	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg raises a real problem, and I fully share the view that this is an administrative problem. My experience after working with international tax issues for many years is that the area is particularly complicated for sailors in relation to the Nordic tax treaty and the various clauses that apply. But even otherwise, the complexity always increases when you work in one country and live in another, and this applies both to the taxpayer, the individual, and not infrequently also to the employer. It's good to be realistic. We should, of course, have the ambition that it should be easy to work in one country and live in another, but we must still have realistic expectations of it. It is important to ensure that there is no double taxation, but it must also not become a double non-taxation. Some of the complexity raised by Boriana Åberg has its background in the fact that we want to avoid double non-taxation so that you don't tax anywhere. There is one issue in this which is also important. In the same way that it would be unreasonable for those who work on board the ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör and have a Danish net salary to receive a Swedish tax on this issue also arises in other cases. People who live in Sweden and use Swedish welfare should of course be involved in contributing tax revenue to their welfare. Of course, all this should be done in a way that is reasonable in relation to the wages you have and the tax you pay in other countries. I want to thank you for an exciting interpellation.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-661	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to initiate legislative changes that give the Customs Authority the power to carry out random checks on outgoing goods and whether I intend to take other measures that prevent international theft leagues from taking goods out of Sweden. It is the Police Authority, together with the Prosecutor's Office, that has the general and overall responsibility for law enforcement. Expanding the Police Authority is one of the government's most important missions. This is why during the mandate we have significantly increased the agency's funding, started two new police training courses, initiated a new, faster admission process to the training and worked to increase the attractiveness of the police profession. The increase in recent years in the number of police graduates has been necessary to make up for the shortage of police officers created by the former bourgeois government when they joined police training. The goal is for Sweden to have 10,000 more police employees in 2024 than we had at the beginning of 2016. We have now reached about halfway, and in the coming years several thousand police officers will be employed around the country. It will strengthen the fight against theft gangs. Ensuring that law enforcement authorities have the tools they need is another important task for the government. That is why we have set up an investigation into more effective police action in border areas. The investigation will consider whether legislative changes should be made to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement in such areas. These may include changes in the ability to conduct camera surveillance and the power to use coercive measures such as body search and vehicle search for crime prevention purposes. The proposal of the investigation shall primarily concern the Police Authority, but to the extent justified, the proposals may also apply to other authorities, such as the Customs Agency. The assignment will be presented in September this year. The government has also set up a special envoy against organised crime to support the Swedish law enforcement authorities in international contacts. A permanent dialogue with countries of origin is needed on legislation, regulations and practices. Sweden is also actively cooperating with other EU Member States to access international crime networks. Our view is clear: the fight against theft leagues must be a priority in the EU's law enforcement work. The government is therefore still determined to fight back against the international theft leagues and has, among other things, stated in the regulations for 2021 for the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Coast Guard that the authorities will report how the collaboration established after the end of the Government's mission regarding actions against foreign theft leagues has continued to develop. The proposals in the memorandum recently referred by the Ministry of Finance mean that the Customs Administration is given certain powers to intervene when the authority in connection with a customs control suspects that theft goods are about to be taken out of the country. The aim is to make more effective use of society's collective resources. However, according to the Customs Agency's regulations for 2021, the Authority will continue to give priority to stopping other imports of weapons, narcotics and explosives. Moreover, in view of the free movement of goods, random customs controls at borders with another EU country are not allowed. As I announced earlier, I consider that a general review of the legislation governing the work and powers of the Customs Administration, including cooperation with other authorities, is justified, and the conditions for such a review are therefore currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-669	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is a little flattering metaphor for Sweden as a smorgasbord for criminals. I'm afraid it's true. International criminals are lured here to commit theft because they know that the risk of detection is small and that the risk of being convicted and punished is virtually non-existent. If one were to be convicted, it is penalty discounts, quantity discounts and comfortable prisons that apply. This is something that does not deter a criminal from, say, Eastern Europe at all. These criminal networks are committing theft for billions of dollars a year. According to police data, international leagues account for at least 90 percent of residential offences and 50 percent of thefts of cars, car parts, boat engines, agricultural machinery, branded goods, and more. Moreover, the major socio-economic losses and human suffering far exceed the value of the stolen goods. The Minister says in his reply that the police have overall responsibility for the fight against theft gangs. It is undeniably so, but preventing the export of the stolen goods from the country is at least as important. The fact that you can leave Sweden via one of the ports with a trailer loaded with, for example, stolen boat engines without the risk of being stopped and prosecuted attracts criminals here. Therefore, the role and powers of the Customs Agency are of fundamental importance. I would have liked the Minister, who is the most responsible for the Customs Agency, to have read a long text – just as the Minister did about the police – about the government's efforts at the Customs Agency: how it intends to expand the agency, how much the Customs Agency will receive in increased funding and how many new customs officials will be employed. I would also like to hear about the increased powers of the Customs to stop stolen goods on their way out of the country. That, in fact, is what this debate is about. The Minister takes the opportunity to criticise the bourgeois government and praise his own government, including for the increased number of police officers. Then let's see how many cops are working on the outside! In fact, the number of police officers has decreased from 9 226 in 2015 to 9 049 in 2019. At the same time, the population has increased from 9.74 million to 10.23 million, contributing to a reduction in police density, which is also among the lowest in the EU as a whole. The government's target of 10,000 new police officers by 2024 has been judged by many experts to be unrealistic, inter alia because the courses are conducted with many empty seats. At the beginning of last year, 413 of 1,020 training places were empty. At the start of the spring semester this year, every third place in police training was empty. Then it is necessary for the police to have good wages and good working conditions in order to remain in the profession. Today, many police leave to work in the insurance and security sectors, so the target of 10,000 new police officers is, unfortunately, only pious hopes on the part of the government.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-676	Madam President, I would like It is good to discuss with a Moderate how quickly police training is being expanded and how many new police officers can be hired. There was something else that happened during the time of the alliance. We'll get back to how it was in the Government Office in 2014. In police training it had not been filled at all, but there was a large deficit of police officers. We have had to substantially expand police training in order to train police officers as policemen retire but also as the population grows. It has been a very ambitious work by the government. We have started two new police colleges, and there are now graduates of police officers who can enter the profession. I fully share Boriana Åberg's view that it is important that the police profession is attractive in terms of working conditions and working environment. Here I can note that the very strong additions to the Police Authority that have taken place during this government's time have led to more policemen being hired, but also to increased salaries for the police, which is of course important for the attractiveness of the profession. It is important that we talk about the police, because it is the police's job to hunt the international theft leagues. The government has also urged the Police Authority to work more with this through the mission that has been given together with other authorities to work together to stop theft leagues. I fully share Boriana Åberg's views – the thefts of boat engines, agricultural machinery and other things create enormous anxiety, frustration and financial costs for the individuals affected and for Sweden as a society. I fully share Boriana Åberg's ambition to ensure that our authorities do more in this area. That's why we're expanding the police. That is why we have given the special mandate for further collaboration and asked to take forward and develop this collaboration. That is also why we have an investigation that will look further at what measures the government can take to facilitate the police's work against theft leagues. I hear some Members of Parliament expressing the view that this problem would be solved by the police and customs in some way exchanging tasks with each other and by customs doing more of what is the police's tasks. But then I'm afraid you take the problem a little too lightly. It will not be solved by exchanging tasks with each other.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-681	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is appropriate to blame the previous government. It has been seven years since Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance. One could say that the limitation period for the predecessor's errors has expired. I therefore propose that we return to the debate on how goods that have already been stolen without the police being able to prevent it from leaving the country. In his reply, the Minister mentioned the memorandum entitled "Changes to the Smuggling Act – The Swedish Customs Agency is given an extended opportunity to intervene against crimes, which were referred to last autumn. It is good that the proposal finally came forward, two years after Parliament's announcement. What is not good is that the consultation bodies consider that the proposal is not sufficient. Today, a customs officer who finds stolen goods cannot stop this from being taken out of the country. You have to contact the police, who usually don't have time to come because there are shootings or blasts going on somewhere else that need to be prioritised. Thefts know this, so they come to the ports close to the departures of the ferries, knowing that customs officials cannot keep either them or the stolen goods. The new proposal gives the Customs Agency the power to retain suspected persons and stolen goods, but only if the discovery takes place under regular customs control. As is well known, regular customs controls are in principle only carried out when goods are imported. Out of 25 000 customs controls at the 2019 border, only 350 related to exports. That is why there must be an amendment to the proposal. Madam President, I would like This is how the Coast Guard writes in its referral: intervenes against a drunk driving under the TKBR. – The Act on the powers of the Customs and Coast Guard to intervene against drunk driving offences– and the Customs Administration will lack the authority to intervene if the controlled car... turns out to be stolen or carries... stolen goods. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like If a customs officer stops a suspected drunk driver and sees that he or she is travelling in a stolen car loaded with stolen goods, the customs officer cannot intervene. We can't have that. In its referral, the Finnish Customs wrote the following about the proposal: a proposal does not change the authority's mandate and therefore does not in itself lead the Finnish Customs to extend its export controls. ..................................................... Then we're back to square zero. There are stolen goods leaving the country, but Customs cannot carry out checks. Both the Swedish Customs Agency and the Coast Guard have seen through this, as well as a lot of other consultation bodies representing, among other things, Bil Sweden, the Swedish Commerce Federation and various agricultural organisations. Everyone is concerned about this ongoing crime and wishes the Minister and the government to stop it.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-688	Madam President, I would like The government is burning with eagerness to stop the international theft leagues. That is why we are expanding the police and ensuring that the police cooperate better with other authorities. That's why we have a special investigation to see what additional tools the police may need when working with border-by-theft. In addition, we have special support when working with other countries' authorities. We are also pushing in the EU that international theft needs to be a priority work. The government is working on a broad front to hit the theft leagues with greater force. On the other hand, we do not believe that the problem is solved by customs taking over police duties. We're saying we need to strengthen the police. Then we have also strengthened customs. We also need to strengthen our control. What we have done with the proposal is quite correct, as the consultation bodies note. It is not that we now believe that the Customs Agency should carry out the police's duties. That was not the purpose either. On the other hand, the problem, which has been reported on a number of occasions in the past, is that customs officials have found stolen goods. Then they get in touch with the police, but the police haven't got there. Then the customs officers have not been able to hold the stolen goods. This proposal solves this problem. That is, of course, good and correct. On the other hand, the proposal does not mean that the Swedish Customs Agency takes over the tasks of the Political Authority. Nor is it the government's intention that they should exchange tasks with each other and that per se something solves the problem.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-694	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the Minister is passionate about stopping the crimes. I therefore hope that she is also sensitive to the proposals that we have and that are shared by the customs staff. As it is now, the Customs Service lacks the necessary powers. It can't help the police when it's doing a search warrant. It can't let it borrow a dog looking for drugs. They are now working in a completely new, tough reality with international crime. We cannot allow them to be governed by the same laws as 40 - 50 years ago. You have to adapt to reality. The Minister mentioned the Special Envoy against Organised Crime. That's a good measure. Håkan Jevrell is a very skilled diplomat. I hope he will be very successful in his work. In the case of other measures that may be easier to arrange because they depend only on the goodwill of the government, it is about the introduction of a list of so-called safe countries. For several years, the Minister of Justice and Migration has promised that such lists will be drawn up. As it is now, people from Georgia and Ukraine come here and pretend to be asylum seekers. While the process is in progress, they help gangs from home to commit theft. They do reconnaissance, and they're really into crime. Now that the list came, neither Ukraine nor Georgia were there. That has to change.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-700	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the commitment to the work against international theft leagues. I also share Boriana Åberg's commitment. It is good that this commitment exists and is so clearly visible in the Riksdag. However, I think it is a somewhat simplified solution that Boriana Åberg and some other Members of Parliament come up with. I do not believe that the exchange of data solves the problem. More resources are needed. I don't just want more resources to stop the exit of the goods. I don't want the estate to be stolen in the first place. It is important that the police work to prevent crime so that we can stop the gangs of theft before they have committed their crimes. Here it is important to emphasise that the Swedish Customs Agency is increasingly working on intelligence so as to be able to use society's resources and taxpayers' money in the most effective way. It is clear that this work needs to continue in this way. The Customs Department has a very important task in stopping the introduction of drugs, weapons and explosives. It is often a basis for the organised crime we have in Sweden. I am certainly not prepared to tubba that the Customs Authority needs to carry out the very important tasks. As far as the list of safe countries is concerned, I am very pleased that that list now exists. However, which countries are on the list is a matter for the Migration Court. There are opportunities to discuss it with them by calling them to Parliament's committees.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-706	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I have carried out an analysis of the risks that the government's announced green tax exchange poses to public finances, and whether I intend to take action against these risks, and what measures I intend to take to ensure sustainable public finances in the future. The main aim of the policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. In order to ensure that tax revenue is fair and stable, confidence in the tax system must be high and tax rules perceived as legitimate. Tax policy will also create the conditions for an environmentally and socially sustainable society. Thus, the tax should also be used to steer cost-effectively towards reduced environmental loads. The green tax exchange to be carried out in accordance with the January Agreement can be seen in this context. The preparation of tax proposals analyses the impact of the proposals on public finances. The public financial impact is calculated in accordance with the Swedish Ministry of Finance's calculation conventions. The calculations are normally static and assume that the behaviour of individuals and companies does not change as a result of the amended rules. It generally provides a good estimate of the effect of the measures on short and medium term employment. Where justified, the impact assessment can also be complemented by behavioural impact assessments. As regards Niklas Wykman's question about what measures I intend to take to ensure sustainable public finances, I would first like to say that it is important that fiscal policy is sustainable. As long as fiscal policy is designed in accordance with the fiscal framework, with a target for financial savings over a business cycle, that is also the case. Although we need to take extraordinary measures today to counter the effects of the covid-19 pandemic, the fiscal framework still applies.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-710	Madam President, the Minister for Finance. There is a legitimate concern around the country about what is happening to our public finances. Indebtedness is increasing rapidly. The government's forecasts have proved to be out of line when it comes to tax revenue. The most flagrant example is what has happened to the so-called plastic bag tax, Madam President. There the government had forecast revenues of SEK 2 billion, or SEK 2 000 million. But the revenue was only about a tenth of it, about $2 million. This is not the first time public finances have been disturbed by the fact that tax forecasts are not correct. They are particularly sensitive to environmental taxes. The very purpose of an environmental tax is to reduce the use of something. The then moderate-led government took the initiative that Sweden should have a carbon tax. Since then, Sweden has endured internationally through the fact that we have been able to repress CO2 emissions while, in a historical perspective, we have had relatively good growth in Sweden, thanks to the foresight that the then moderate government had and that since governments of different colours have followed. Klas Eklund points out in his tax investigation, Magdalena Andersson, that it is very important that environmental taxes are allowed to be environmentally responsible and that public finances are not hung up on environmental taxes precisely because they aim – if you are going to use national economic language – to erode the tax base. Magdalena Andersson still chooses to shovel Sweden in a very risky position, where she makes a big point of having green tax exchange in Sweden. So we are going to reduce certain taxes and increase taxes on what is harmful to the environment. The problem with this logic is, as Klas Eklund points out among other things, that one makes oneself dependent on environmental pollution in order to be able to finance health care, school and police. And for this dependence not to be permanent, one must constantly have a threatening tax increase for other activities, jobs, entrepreneurship and consumption. The problem with the implicit threat is that no one really knows who will be affected and in what way of the taxes that will then need to be increased once the environmental benefit is achieved. This in the next stage creates great uncertainty for companies and people about the tax conditions that will actually apply in the country in the future. Magdalena Andersson and Social Democracy have done everything possible to seize and retain power, to use Morgan Johansson's words about a democratic shift in power in Sweden. But the question is: Has everything been done to make it as good as possible for Sweden? Does Magdalena Andersson believe that the green tax exchange benefits jobs and growth in Sweden? Does Magdalena Andersson believe that it promotes predictability in the tax system? Does Magdalena Andersson think it makes it easier for jobs and investments in general? Or can the Minister of Finance agree that there is also a reverse in the form of increased uncertainty and eroded tax revenues once the tax achieves its purpose?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-720	Madam President, I would like It is an exciting interest in tax revenue from a moderate – from a moderate party that lowered the tax by 140 billion when they were in government positions and that pushed through another job tax deduction in the Riksdag after the 2014 elections and another after the 2018 elections. Now Niklas Wykman is talking about the need to finance police, school and other things. But the very purpose of Moderate politics is to reduce the tax, at least by the politics that the Moderates push through when they have the chance to get their politics through. The green tax shift is part of the January agreement, and the aim is to get people to choose less environmentally dangerous activities and goods and then use these tax revenues to reduce the tax. We have done so in a way that both benefits entrepreneurs and reduces taxes on individuals. As Niklas Wykman rightly states, it has been shown that the price elasticity of plastic bags seems to have been greater than expected. This means that the tax has been more successful than we had thought when the purpose was to steer away from disposable plastic bags. But it is quite correct that the tax revenue is slightly smaller than was thought. You can then put these 2 billion in relation to the 140 billion that the Moderates lowered the tax with in government positions. Niklas Wykman is also concerned that the public debt is running. Then I still have to ask Niklas Wykman a question. The Moderates have pursued several initiatives in the Riksdag that further increase expenditure. Is this concern real? I wonder because the Moderates have proposed additional expenses. Increasing resources to care for the elderly is not something that I, as a social democrat, have problems with. However, if we take up the aspect of concern over public debt and expenditure, I do not think that the reasoning is quite connected. I'm all ears to hear.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-725	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are strongly opposed to several of the increases in expenditure that the Minister for Finance is making with the Swedish people's tax money. It is a question of massive aid increases, of a huge waste of expenditure and of politicised authorities that are not in Sweden's service. There is no doubt that the Moderates are the party that takes responsibility for sustainable and strong public finances and takes a stand against the reckless use of our tax funds. This is trying to confuse the Minister for Finance with the fact that we are also pursuing an effective bridging and stimulus policy to save jobs in the crisis when she is passive herself. This interpellation, however, concerns the long-term sustainability of the tax system. The Swedish people can note that Magdalena Andersson estimated that she would receive SEK 2 000 million by introducing a tax on plastic bags. She got a tenth of it. What does that say? Well, it says that taxes play a role in people's behavior. Magdalena Andersson raised the tax on plastic bags sharply, and the result was that people stopped buying plastic bags. It says two things: firstly, that one cannot rely on this type of environmental tax to secure public finances, and secondly, that Magdalena Andersson should take along with her other policy formulation, namely that driving forces play a role. If you tax something hard, it will decrease. That is why we strongly oppose Magdalena Andersson's threat of tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. If you tax it harder, you'll get less of it. That is also why, Madam President, the Minister for Finance is completely wrong about moderate fiscal policy. It does not aim to reduce tax revenues; it aims to reduce tax rates. But with more people working, higher growth and more start-ups, the tax bases are getting bigger. Magdalena Andersson can surely recall some high school lesson where you would learn to figure out the area of a triangle. It was the base times the height. We want large tax bases but somewhat lower tax rates. Magdalena Andersson attacks and shrinks the tax bases but drives up the tax rate. This is not a good way to take responsibility for a country and for public finances in the long term. Madam President, I would like Today, an opinion poll showed that the Moderates are Sweden's largest party. In the past, an opinion poll showed that we are the party that enjoys the greatest confidence in the environmental issue. This is because we have made up with the red-green symbolism policy that has taken Sweden to the end of the road. Together with the Center Party, Magdalena Andersson has put forward proposals that burden people who depend on the car, make life miserable for families with children and make it difficult to run a business. It is new taxes that hit especially hard on those who want to run businesses, work and live in Swedish countryside. We have changed our policy strategy and are proposing effective measures to reduce emissions, including by investing in fossil-free electricity generation and in accessing coal power around the world. Magdalena Andersson has instead committed itself to a so-called green tax exchange that makes life miserable for companies and families around Sweden and that hits especially hard on the countryside. That policy needs to be broken.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-735	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman says that moderate tax policy is not aimed at lower tax revenues. No, it may not be aimed at this, but it leads to lower tax revenues. Further job tax deductions do not increase tax revenues. There is not a single serious economist who claims to be a plus to the job tax deductions. Continued tax cuts are what the Moderates suggest every time they have the opportunity. Against this background, it is interesting that Niklas Wykman is interrogating about the long-term sustainability of the tax system. The threat to tax revenue is spelled not Social Democrats but Moderates. You show this every time you present a budget motion in Parliament and every time you sit in the government. Last time, you dropped the tax by 140 billion. Nor can it be ignored what has resulted from the times the Moderates have been in government. You reduced the tax by 140 billion the last time, but all the times the Moderates have been in government power they have left behind major public finance deficits. These are major deficits which we Social Democrats have then had to take responsibility for cleaning up. It is not surprising, because when you care about welfare, the children at school, the sick and the elderly, you also ensure that you have sustainable and healthy public finances in the long term. Niklas Wykman is talking about massive grant increases that we are proposing. I suppose it is above all the unemployment fund to which he refers. It has been raised now during the crisis, and we have extended that increase. This has happened in view of all the people who have been out of work because of the crisis. For young people who lose their jobs, the lowest compensation is very low, but the ceiling in the unemployment fund is also low. However, it is not only about those who have become unemployed because of the Corona crisis, but also about the bakers at the Polarbread factory in Älvsbyn, who have become unemployed because their factory has burned down. The Moderates want to cut down heavily on their unemployment insurance. I do not think this is the right way forward.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-740	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I am more concerned after this debate than I was before it. The Minister of Finance does not seem to want to take on board or even reflect on the risks she poses to Swedish public finances. The Minister of Finance has recently reported that she forecast 90% error in one of these environmental taxes. The tax was supposed to bring in 2,000 million, but it only brought in 200 million. The Minister of Finance is in the process of introducing new such taxes, which will help finance the public sector, even though she has already seen the outcome. So they do not lead to the tax revenue she believes. However, this does not appear to be an obstacle to pursuing this policy. Madam President, I would like A measure of humility is required to manage a country's public finances. The Minister of Finance is, of course, aware of all the crises that Sweden has had and the excellent evaluations that Social Democrats Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt and Jens Henriksson and others have made, where they take the blame for, among other things, the 90s crisis and how things could go so badly. Magdalena Andersson can of course take part of them. Madam President, I would like This debate is about the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Minister of Finance can check whether tax revenues during the year of the Alliance decreased or increased. Everyone is free to do so. The Internet is a little bit Social Democracy's main enemy, because people can quickly check for themselves. Madam President, I would like Let us hope that Magdalena Andersson has at least learned from the place bag tax that taxes matter and that she should therefore not tax jobs so hard in the future.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-745	Madam President, I would like Tax revenues under the alliance government decreased if inflation and population growth were taken into account. They had decreased even more if not so many municipalities and regions had had to raise taxes because the government chose tax cuts – mostly for those who earn the most – instead of ensuring that there were resources for children in school, health care and the elderly in care for the elderly. That was the priority of the alliance government. I am also well aware of what Jens Henriksson and Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt have written, but they do not assume responsibility for the failed fiscal policy conducted under the government Bildt 1991-1994 and the total Moras that was in the public finances. In this way the state finances have always looked like when the Moderates have been in the government. Three times out of three possible deficits have been left behind. Niklas Wykman claims to be concerned about the risks inherent in public finances. But if you're going to learn something from history in Sweden, it's that there's a great risk, and it's that the Moderates are going back into government. And that's not surprising, because in the DNA of the Moderates, according to them, there is precisely to lower the tax, not to protect the school, health care and care.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-748	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure competitiveness and hence continued climate benefits for high and clean biofuels and whether these initiatives will be developed in close dialogue with the industry. On 8 October 2020, Sweden received a new State aid authorisation for tax exemptions for highly mixed liquid biofuels valid until the end of 202 1. According to the EU Guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy, aid must not be granted to food-based biofuels beyond 2020. However, the guidelines and the provisions containing rules on support for biofuels are currently being reviewed. In this work, it seems that the process of favouring high blended biofuels over fossil fuels will continue beyond 2021. This work has been going on for several years, and the European Commission has during that time been negative towards continued tax exemption for food-based biofuels. The Commission considers that aid for these only contributes partially to the common environmental objectives and cannot therefore be considered compatible with the internal market. The Government believes that sustainable biofuels have an important role to play in achieving climate goals. They should therefore be promoted and not disadvantaged by tax rules. The Government also implements several other measures to support sustainable biofuels. In the design of these instruments, dialogue with the sectors concerned is important.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-751	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister Andersson for her reply. In this House, we are used to debating each other, breaking ideas and arguing that the opposite should change views on the fundamental issue itself. On this issue, however, I am not sure that I shall have this particular approach. I believe that there are a number of input values on which we agree. We agree that the transport sector must reduce its impact on CO2 emissions. I mean, it's not the transports we're going after, it's the emissions. That is the point of departure here. We agree that the goal should be for transport to become completely fossil-free in the long term. We also agree that we should not put different tools against each other. We need both electrification and biofuels. Having said that, we can nevertheless note that there are challenges – or problems, as it is said when people do not talk politics – with precisely the EU's regulatory framework and Sweden's high ambitions to use biofuels to reduce the climate impact of the vehicle fleet, which has been of great benefit in terms of reducing climate impact emissions. There is a stairway of possible steps forward. In the best of worlds, the government will be successful in bringing about a change in EU state aid to allow tax exemptions for all clean and highly mixed biofuels. Madam President, I would like However, if this step is not reached, the government will have to apply for a Swedish tax exemption for clean and highly mixed biofuels. And there must be an exception with a long horizon, much as biogas has become. In order for there to be a chance of success, the Swedish government must hook arms with others and find alliances. This applies to certain countries within the EU, but it is particularly true in the case of the Swedish fuel industry. It is important to see them as co-players and to involve them in the work. There has been a signal of uncertainty from the industry. They do not feel included, and there is concern that decisions will be taken at very short notice so that they get short lead times. This would be bad for business and it would be bad for the environment. And the successful investment in pure biofuels would stop or perhaps even stop in Sweden. I think I can read that there are possible openings in the Government's response. I would therefore like to ask whether the Government would like to develop a little more closely what it looks like when it comes to dialogue with the industry. How will it be designed? Can I learn a little more about the forms of this dialogue? Do you know anything about a schedule?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-761	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start by thanking you for the interpellation. Camilla Brodin raises a very important issue. I think there is a broad consensus among many in Parliament on how important it is that we have the opportunity to have favourable rules for these new fuels. We want to benefit them fiscally, so that people choose to use them rather than the fossils. The problem is that we repeatedly run into European rules. It is basically a problem that what is called the Energy Taxation Directive is dated. It's too old and doesn't fit the new time with the green. I myself have been pushing for the Commission to make a change to the Energy Taxation Directive. In fact, that was something that we did already during the last parliamentary term. There is another entry into the new Commission. We are trying to push the green issues further. We are, of course, conducting a dialogue there, and we are closely following the work to see what is the best strategy forward for Sweden. The industry is of course also an important player for us to know what is the best design of the rules. We want to promote these fuels. I am concerned if there are signs that the dialogue is not working. It is something that I will take home to the Government Office to ensure that we have a close dialogue with the industry on these issues. I also wish, of course, that there was greater foresight on these issues. We are trying, in dialogue with the Commission, to have as long exceptions as possible, but we must be realistic so that we can apply for something that we can also get through, so that we do not stand entirely without exception from the state aid rules.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-766	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If I interpret it correctly, the government believes that it will continue its advocacy work within the EU to enable biofuels, even after 2021, to benefit over fossil fuels. However, it is likely to be difficult to obtain a continued tax exemption after 2021. What we hear and read is that the Government Office is working on this issue, but I am thinking again of dialogue. Just as in the case of reduction obligations, it is precisely action that is needed. One proposal could be to appoint a manager at the Ministry of Infrastructure who is actively working with the industry to review alternative solutions to a tax exemption. The industry itself has presented a number of different proposals that could be further worked on. For example, they have actively highlighted the benefits of investing in both an electrification strategy and a biofuels strategy. There are, like, no contradictions. We'll both need it in the future. We are now in March. Time's fast. There must be serious opportunities for the industry to get lead times that work in reality. I would therefore like to know how the Government assesses the possibility of Swedish success in the negotiations for a long-term tax exemption. I also wonder about the talks that are being held at European level.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-770	Madam President, I would like The European Commission has announced a revision of the Energy Taxation Directive and that this work will start in 2021. In the context of that work, we, of course, will be working by the government to ensure that we can have favourable tax conditions for biofuels, because we see it as an obvious part of the green transition. Of course, we will bring that forward. I can see that there are slightly different approaches in the European Union. Some countries, and also the Commission, have been very concerned about food-based crops. It is possible to have different views on it because the balance between nature and population is slightly different in different parts of the EU. From a Swedish perspective, this is self-evident, but I can see that views on food-based biofuels but also on forestry in general differ from country to country. We will, of course, continue to push for Swedish interests. I also take with me the proposal to have a closer dialogue with the industry, because they are an important player in this and they are sitting on a lot of knowledge that can be valuable to us. I can say that I have spent a great deal of time discussing with representatives of the Commission. I have explained the Swedish starting points on this issue and we think that the combination of the Energy Taxation Directive and State aid rules, as they stand at present, is really wrong. When the Commission also sees the need to transform into a sustainable society, it does not seem entirely logical, as can be interpreted. I think it is very good that we could get a state aid approval for 2021 as well. We are, of course, currently working intensively on how best to deal with the issue for the future.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-775	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for that. I know the industry is watching this debate. It is gratifying that you take this on board by starting dialogues. Based on the conversations I have had, I feel that dialogues have not existed before. This is an incredibly urgent issue. If Sweden is to remain competitive, we need to take the lead on this issue and not just leave it there. This is an urgent issue for the whole industry. I'm a good waiter. Many thanks for this! I hope this can be a bit of an alarm clock and a little blowtorch when it comes to getting hold of those calls as soon as possible.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-779	Madam President, I would like I can tell you that there are ongoing talks between the Government Office in Sweden and the Commission on these issues. My picture is that there is a knowledge in the Government Office about the industry's views and that they have dialogue with the industry. But given that the industry states that it wants an even closer dialogue, I will of course take it with me. It is important for us from the government that we listen to the industry and that they also experience themselves who listened to it. I would like to thank you for the interpellation, and I would like to thank you for your commitment to this issue. It feels good when you can hook arms, and pursue Swedish interests, also with parties that you do not always share opinions with.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-781	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev has asked me if the government is prepared to give the investigation an additional directive with the mission, or to give a new investigation in order to investigate how a state-funded housing saving can be designed. The question refers to the investigation Proposals to facilitate first-time buyers on the housing market, which the government decided last December to appoint. The aim of the proposal is to investigate and propose measures to facilitate first-time buyers in the housing market. The assignment includes, among other things, proposing how a government start-up loan aimed at first-time buyers should be designed. It is up to the investigation to decide which measures are most appropriate. However, the government wants to see fairly detailed proposals on how to design a start-up loan, given that the start-up loan has been a measure that has been discussed quite a lot and that there are examples in other countries. The investigation shall also investigate and propose other appropriate measures. Of course, housing saving is a possible such measure. However, I do not wish to pre-empt the investigation and look forward to hearing its assessments and proposals. So my assessment is that the directives for the current investigation include what Dennis Dioukarev is calling for. I see no reason to take any further action in this context.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-785	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing, for your answer. I will comment on what the Minister has just said, but I would like to begin by giving a brief background to what my interpellation here today is about. We now have a situation where the prices of housing have been pushed up by an acute housing shortage in the metropolitan regions in particular, where jobs are most often found. In West Sweden, for example, every fourth young adult lives involuntarily at the parents'home. Moving away from home is often the first step toward becoming independent, getting a career, and eventually starting a family if you want to. At the moment, however, there is a lack of affordable housing and reasonable waiting times. The gap between those who have their own home and those who do not right now is allowed to grow and expand. The share of young people in need of help with cash or co-borrowers has increased from 17 per cent in 2016 to 25 per cent in 2020. This means that savings must be more aggressive today and start earlier than just a decade ago in order to have a chance to enter the housing market. Alternatively, we must embark on an insecure secondary market with sky-high rents or reject job offers in our most fast-growing and labour-intensive regions. Ultimately, this situation is thus directly inhibiting growth and leads to socio-economic welfare losses for the whole of Sweden. Add to this a pandemic that has struck particularly hard against youth-dominated occupations, and we will soon have an entire generation without prospects to realise the dream of a home of our own. That is why I am today calling for measures to create better conditions for young households to enter the housing market. Against this background, it is a good thing that an investigation has finally been set up to make suggestions on how to make it easier for first-time buyers. The government's investigation directive mentions, among other things, government starting loans, which is a good starting point, but in principle I believe that this should be preceded by savings. In Norway, Finland and Germany there is therefore a savings bonus that means that young adults should be able to save for a cash bet with special tax rules. The design can be likened to an inverse interest rebate, but instead of receiving a refund on the loan, you get a refund. This will build up a cash input for a housing purchase and at the same time stimulate savings from an early age. My point is that the government or investigator does not need to reinvent the wheel, because there are international examples to be inspired by. This is a measure by many that could be part of a reform package. So my question today was whether the government is prepared to add an additional directive to the investigation with the task of specifically investigating a savings bonus. The answer to my question was no, as we heard. You rely on the investigator. I think it is difficult to do that, because what happens if you do not choose to investigate the savings bonus? This opportunity has been lost and we have to wait for the next investigation, despite the fact that we now have a situation where young adults cannot leave home and where you have to turn down job offers or take blanco loans to co-finance the cash effort. With the acute housing shortage that prevails and with the building act that we have, I wonder why the government has such a defensive approach to new solutions.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-795	Madam President, I would like The mission to the ongoing investigation includes investigating and proposing other appropriate measures in addition to this main focus on a government start-up loan. That is something we have wanted to see specifically, but the mission is to propose appropriate measures and not just a starting loan. Various ways of encouraging housing savings, which Dennis Dioukarev is looking into and looking into, is a possible such measure. With regard to other countries' experiences and models to encourage housing savings, the mandate to the ongoing investigation also clearly states that it is necessary to analyse international experiences of various measures taken to facilitate first-time buyers. It is important for me not to be involved in the investigation at this stage, but it is now up to the investigation to decide which measures it considers appropriate to pursue in the light of the objectives set out in the directives. I look forward very much to receiving the investigation with its proposals and assessments and, on that basis, come back with the necessary measures to allow more people to take the step into the owned housing market as well.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-798	Madam President, I would like I may think that if political reform is considered to be of interest, it should also be included in the investigation directive, otherwise the responsibility of the investigator is left to find political priorities and political reforms. I myself have been on parliamentary committees, and there it was very clear what it was we were going to investigate and how we were going to do it. We also received additional directives. It is by no means strange or unusual, so I find it difficult to understand the ambivalence of the government. Last year Sifo conducted a survey of 1 000 Swedes over 30 years, asking what they thought of a savings bonus. The figure that I particularly stuck to was that one in four of those who do not save a single crown at all today would start bosparing if there was a savings bonus. This would then be a fantastic development, because it means that we would provide an opportunity to enter the housing market for young people and young adults who might come from more poor households. I also know that the Green Party has previously expressed support for this reform. That is why I find it strange that, as Märta Stenevi says, on the one hand it certainly does not mind a savings bonus per se, but on the other hand it does not want to be investigated specifically, even though there is currently an investigation into how to get first-time buyers into the housing market. The timing could not be better for such an investigation. In a broader perspective, you can also ask yourself what signals it sends to young people and young adults when investigating a loan but not a saving. I think it sets up very skewed incentive systems. The Swedish Democrats have nothing against the starting loan; the fact is that we have been running it for years. But we believe that, in principle, a loan should always be preceded by savings. With regard to this reform, it must, of course, come in the order of saving first and borrowing then. I therefore maintain that it is worrying that this is not included in the investigation directive. At the same time, I can understand this in the light of the attitude that the government has taken towards savings in the past. Savings have been penalised not only once, but in fact twice in the last parliamentary term, when the tax on ISK has been increased. This is like a red line in the government's economic policy. I regret that, because those who are affected here and now are young people who are without a home and who are forced to take out blanco loans or turn down job offers.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-803	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev is making great changes to an investigation that has not yet submitted a report. I have already said that the investigation has a broad directive which allows proposals to be made for a range of measures. The way in which the directive is drafted may differ slightly. Of course, you can choose to clearly specify exactly what the investigation should look at, and you can also give a more transparent directive asking the investigation to come back with what measures are possible and which are most appropriate to solve a problem. This study has a broad directive and there is every possibility of coming back with proposals for housing savings if it sees that it is an appropriate measure on the market. As the Member of Parliament points out, the Green Party has pushed the issue in the past. I do not want today to precede what the investigation will come up with. The whole point of setting up an investigation is to get a review and a comparison of international experiences, and then the investigation will come back with suggestions that we can prepare to see which ones are good to proceed with. Let me give a direct answer to Dennis Dioukarev's original question. As the directives for the ongoing investigation have to do with what is being asked for, I do not see any reason to take any further action at this stage.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-807	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not true that the investigation has to do with what we are asking for. The investigation does not have with any bospar or a savings bonus at all. What has been specified in the Investigation Directive is the starting loan. The question then is why one does not specify that a bospar should also be investigated. If Märta Stenevi here and now can guarantee that the question will be investigated, that is a satisfactory answer. Nevertheless, I ask whether Märta Stenevi can guarantee that a savings bonus will be investigated. If it is not investigated, it is the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats who are ultimately responsible for screwing up the possibility of investigating a reform for which there is potentially a majority in the Swedish parliament and which would help many young adults in the housing market. One of the aims of the Swedish Democrats is that everyone who wants to own their home. To make this easier, we want to see a clear and predictable housing policy that does not unnecessarily make it difficult for one's own home ownership. That is why we want to see a start-up loan and a savings bonus as well as a abolished second amortisation requirement. All in all, it would facilitate funding, increase mobility and enable more efficient use of the housing stock. In conclusion, today's policy of excessive credit restrictions and a lack of a savings bonus means that young adults pushes out into an uncertain secondary market with sky-high rents, or else they get to take blanco loans – insecure loans – at high interest rates. A party in the Swedish Government that takes responsibility must ask itself what to do about the situation. There, Märta Stenevi and the government are still guilty of the answer.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-811	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are able to debate the issues, but I am most happy to be able to pursue the issues politically in a government that really wants to see sustainable housing for all. The opportunity for all people to live well is so fundamental to equality, quality of life and health, but today too many people are crowded. They jump around on short second- and third-hand contracts and don't have a home at all. Housing segregation is currently unsustainable. the possibility of entering the housing market and obtaining a first-hand contract or moving if necessary; This applies to those who have to leave a bad relationship, to those whose family is growing, to those who get a new job elsewhere or to those who grow up and have to find their own accommodation. I and the government are currently pushing for solutions to the challenges. As usual, it is about working with many tools at the same time, both long-term and short-term. In addition to the study we have discussed in the debate to make it easier for first-time buyers, I would also like to mention the report on socially sustainable housing, which is currently working widely to make it easier for households who find it difficult to obtain housing on market terms. At the same time, the investigation will look at how housing segregation can be counteracted and how equal upbringing and living conditions can be improved. The study will also review existing housing policy tools and how they can be more effective and effective. In addition, there is a study looking at reducing indebtedness in the area of housing allowance and maintenance support. If we are to break segregation and reduce overcrowding, we must reduce the thresholds both to enter the housing market and to move within it. Finally, I would like to emphasise that everything rests on the overall ambition and the need to close the social and economic gaps in our country.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-816	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether and if so why I believe that Mipex provides a good measure of how successful Sweden's integration policy is and whether I will work to make the outcome of Swedish integration policy easier compared to other countries. International comparisons are valuable for evaluating, comparing and improving our own policies and are an important tool for countries to learn from each other. There are several ways to measure and compare integration. Mipex, Migrant integration policy index, is a well-established index that assesses integration policy in 52 countries. It consists of a large number of indicators in eight policy areas, including labour market, education, health, non-discrimination and political participation. The Joint Research Centre of the European Commission has compared MIPEX with other indices and concluded that no other index currently offers the same coverage that also allows comparisons between countries and within countries over time. In the last two measurements, 2015 and 2020, Sweden was ranked highest, followed by Finland, Portugal and Canada. Mipex gives a picture of Swedish integration policy in comparison with other countries. A large number of studies have been published in recent years comparing the situation of foreign-borns on the labour market with that of other countries. Measures used by the FAU to show the position of foreign-borns on the Swedish labour market in an international perspective include labour market participation, employment rates, labour productivity, the share of low-skilled jobs and wage dispersion. IFAU concludes that the Swedish labour market is functioning well from an international perspective, but that there are indications of entry into the labour market, especially for refugee and family migrants. Nordic comparisons in the area of integration can be particularly valuable as we have similar challenges and conditions in many ways. Such studies show, for example, that the job gap between native and foreign born is higher in Sweden compared to the other Nordic countries. This applies especially to newly arrived women. However, since Sweden invests more in education and preparatory work during the first years, according to several Nordic studies, the establishment in Sweden is more sustainable in the long term with a higher employment rate over time. There is continuous work in our international networks to develop indicators that help improve and facilitate international comparisons. For example, as part of the European Commission's new Action Plan on Integration, joint development work will be undertaken to make the impact of integration policies easier to measure by increasing access to comparable data and improved knowledge of integration at European, national and regional level. Sweden stands well in many international comparisons, but they also show challenges. It is important that we continue to work to ensure that new arrivals enter the labour market and into society more quickly, not least because much indicates that the current pandemic leads to deteriorating conditions for integration and establishment. People who start again in Sweden will have the best conditions possible to establish themselves and contribute to our common welfare. Both women and men must meet the same expectations and demands from society and be given the right conditions to support themselves and stand on their own feet through entry into the labour market. The work for integration and the establishment of newcomers in working and social life is a fundamental part of the government's goal of a society that holds together and provides equal opportunities for all. In conclusion, I believe that Mipex is a good measure for assessing Sweden's integration policy because it covers several different policy areas and enables comparisons between countries and within countries over time. But as I said, Mipex gives a picture of Swedish integration policy in comparison with other countries. Other international comparisons are also valuable for evaluating, comparing and ultimately improving our own policies. With regard to the question of whether I will work to make the outcome of Swedish integration policy easier compared to other countries, I would like to point out that there is ongoing development work on this in our international networks.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-824	Madam President, I would like Is Sweden the best in the world in integration policy? If you asked the Prime Minister's predecessor, former Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen, the answer was an unequivocal yes. Lindhagen highlighted in a number of parliamentary debates the Mipex survey, in which Sweden is ranked high or highest as evidence that the government has the best integration policy in the world. Integration policy has a number of parliamentary objectives, which means that the Government will, according to the Budget Act, present indicators on how well these objectives are met in the budget bill. In the budget bill, the government measures the results of integration policies according to roughly the same criteria, which I believe most consider relevant, such as differences in unemployment and school outcomes between native and foreign born. By contrast, Mipex, the survey that the Green Party regularly chooses to highlight, only measures formal regulations such as the right of migrants to social security or benefits, cash benefits, permanent residence permits, family immigration and so on – in other words, how much money a country is prepared to spend on migrants. The more money, the better grades, of course, but the actual outcome of politics in the form of actual unemployment or actual school results does not affect the grade in Mipex at all. If you measure and compare how much money different countries spend on integration policy, yes, then Sweden comes top. We do. That's absolutely true. But if you look at the actual results, you can see that the answer is a little different. According to the OECD report International Migration Outlook, Sweden has the biggest gap between domestic and foreign born in terms of employment, what is called the employment rate, of all 37 OECD countries. Moreover, according to the PISA survey, we have the greatest differences between native and foreign born. Sweden spends most money on so-called integration policies and at the same time has the absolutely worst results in terms of unemployment and school outcomes. The question then is whether this is a paradox or a logical consequence of the Green Party's guiding policy. I see it as relatively obvious that the environmental party's extreme contribution culture, fanatical focus on so-called multiculturalism and stubborn resistance to all forms of demands – which in itself gives a high rating in Mipex – is the very reason why integration in Sweden is so bad. The conditions for successful establishment simply do not exist here. In this way, the Green Party is, above all, doing the migrants themselves a disservice in the long run. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister what conclusion she herself draws from the fact that Sweden spends the most money on integration policy and has the worst results where it really matters – not labour market participation or whatever it can be without how many people get a real job and how many get a really good grade in school.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-831	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, a very interesting and important discussion... far too important to get in the wrong place. Perhaps we need to start by clarifying and establishing some basic facts. Member of Parliament Ludvig Aspling has taken up the relevant index for discussion several times before today, including in an interpellation debate in December and in debate articles published just a few weeks ago. But even though the Member of Parliament is so eager to debate the function and construction of the index, some things seem to have fallen out of the discussion. Mipex not only measures how much of cash benefits and welfare rights a country provides, as the Member of Parliament has previously claimed. That's wrong. Mipex measures a wide range of indicators in as many as eight policy areas. The indicators cover, for example, protection against discrimination, democratic participation, opportunities for families to be reunited and a number of other measures that actually have a strong consensus on effective integration policies. The MP's description of the index is somewhere so grossly simplified that it seems almost unrecognizable. Mipex is also an internationally recognised tool for measuring the conditions for integration and what governments do to promote integration. Sweden does a lot of things. That said, these aren't the only numbers we're looking at. Although Sweden has to a large extent internationally recognised conditions for good integration on the ground, other comparisons and measurements show that challenges remain. Ludvig Aspling has highlighted some of these challenges and pointed to some relevant figures. So have I. However, if the reality was as simple as the Member of Parliament describes, if the challenges ahead were so one-dimensional, appropriate measures had been taken long ago to achieve effective integration. Reality is complex. Let me exemplify. Despite my short time in this role, the employment rate has already been debated a few times, me and the Member of Parliament. The employment rate of women born abroad is relatively high in Sweden compared to the average of women born abroad in the EU – 56.3 per cent compared to 52.5% in 2019. However, since the employment rate of domestic women born in Sweden is very high by European standards, the difference between domestic and foreign women in Sweden is still significant. By looking only at the employment gap in Sweden, the reality behind the figure is not brought to light. Another example is the Nordic comparison I mentioned in my answer, which shows that the employment gap between domestic and foreign born is generally higher in Sweden than in other Nordic countries after completion of the start-up efforts. But since Sweden invests more in education and preparatory work during the first years, the establishment in Sweden according to several Nordic studies, including Integrating immigrants into the Nordic Labour Market, is more sustainable in the long term. That simply means catching up and transforming our neighbours into jobs over time. One figure gives a picture, but reality requires more numbers and more analysis. I therefore repeat my message: Mipex gives a picture of reality. The government takes into account several images in order to create as good an overview as possible. Reality is complex. The situation cannot be caught up in simplification. The fact that our integration challenges remain despite Sweden's good results is due to other factors, but this does not mean that the index is useless – vice versa.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-843	Madam President, I would like It is always exciting when representatives of this government make promises. So we will change over time. A simple question then is when. What year are we going to pass? Is the Government planning to present a calculation or a forecast for which year we will get as good results as other countries in terms of those particular measurements? I don't think Märta Stenevi can present this today, but I'd be happy if she did. Another question that I find interesting is whether Mipex's performance indicators really fit the environmental party's ideological starting point better than the criteria presented by the government in its budget proposal. The Green Party's member magazine published shortly after the last budget process a triumphant article entitled .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I can only note that the corresponding article, with the results of green policy, shines quite strongly with its absence. In a situation where Sweden desperately needs a comprehensive integration policy reform and where the Green Party is just as desperate to fight the same, I think Mipex in the Environmental Party's alternative reality will be a sort of proof that it has succeeded. We spend a lot of money. What then happens in reality, that is, what the results are, is not very important. This receipt also means that we have some chance to say that Sweden is really the best and that voters should not believe their eyes. It is quite obvious to those who are in the real world out in Sweden that the integration of foreign born in Sweden is unfortunately not as good as it could be. I would therefore like to give the Government a chance to simply explain itself. Why does the party choose to repeatedly highlight Mipex when we are debating integration in this House, rather than talking about other things that are a little more tangible and concrete? For example, how well are foreign born pupils doing compared to natives? What about unemployment and employment among natives and foreign-borns? These are really the questions that are interesting. But you don't want to talk about this, you'd rather talk about Mipex. The Government says that Mipex is more complex and not just about rights, contributions and so on. Well, there are a couple of other criteria too, but they are not very interesting in this context. The reason for this is that in terms of protection against discrimination and democratic participation, for example, it is not really, in the group of countries that we are competing against at the Mipex summit, namely our immediate neighbours – the Netherlands is usually good, as is Finland, Denmark and so on – some major differences compared to Sweden. As a result, those criteria may not be as interesting. What makes Sweden the top of this survey is that we are very generous in taking away cash grants and benefits. That's what makes us win. It is not our protection of discrimination that leads us to the top, but it is the contributions that make the big difference.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-852	Madam President, I would like Last time I checked, the European Commission was not an environmental partisan function, but it is a function whose research council has evaluated Mipex and found that it is a good way to compare between countries. The Green Party is therefore not alone in wanting to use Mipex in different contexts. I would also like to refer to the Nordic studies that point to the fact that we do have a challenge that we need to work with – to get new arrivals to work quickly – but also to the fact that the efforts we make in terms of education and preparatory work produce results in the longer term. I look forward to debating those reports with the Member of Parliament at a later date. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ludvig Aspling for raising these issues. It gives me the opportunity to explain more in depth how the government views measuring and evaluating certain aspects of integration. A few words may also be in place about why well-functioning integration is so important. For this government, a humane refugee policy is a matter of course. Receiving people on the run is a basic decency and an act of solidarity. A study by Novus shows that a humane refugee policy has a great deal of support from the Swedish people. We are therefore firmly committed to this act of solidarity. Given that we have, and have had, a popularised reception of asylum seekers, well-functioning integration is important for this government. People who receive a residence permit should be given the opportunity to enter society quickly, learn Swedish and make a living. If the honourable Member wants an overall snapshot of the position of foreign-borns on the Swedish labour market, I can recommend that he also look at IFAU. There are plenty of measures available in terms of labour force participation, employment rates, labour productivity and wage dispersion, to name a few. In the government, we take into account as many measurements and comparisons as possible. Mipex is one of these. In addition to the statistics as a snapshot of integration, ongoing evaluations of the integration policies undertaken are also required to achieve effective integration, i.e. the ability to compare over time. In this respect, international comparisons of integration policies are important. A central such comparison is Mipex. No one has said, and I will not say, that the integration policy picture is clear from Mipex. Today, however, there is no other index that offers an equally comprehensive comparison of what governments are doing to promote the integration of migrants. Therefore, we believe that Mipex is a relevant instrument for creating an evaluation overview of Sweden's integration policy, together with the other figures, factors and measurements we are looking at.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-861	Madam President, I would like The Government highlights that there is strong Swedish support for a humane refugee policy. It depends a little on how you mean. It is definitely a plurality of the Swedish people who want to receive fewer asylum seekers; this has been the case for a very long time. Moreover, a humane refugee policy does not mean, in my world, that if two communities in Afghanistan are lukewarm, all people there have the right to move to Sweden and live on subsidies here for the rest of their lives. That is completely absurd. The right to asylum applies in the first country. You should seek asylum in the first safe country you come to. You should not travel through 15 safe countries to come to a country where you hope for a better standard of living, which is what is happening right now. What the Government does not quite understand and is at the heart of this interpellation is this: no other measurement takes into account, as she rightly says, more different aspects of what governments do – quite true. But this is not the interesting thing. I do not think the interesting thing is what governments do in detail. What is interesting is what results from what governments do. This is what makes the difference. I do not think it is important to measure how much money the different countries spend on different labour market policy programmes, tailor-made training or what it might be. The interesting thing is how many people are subject to these measures that get real jobs or a good grade from high school. Here I feel that the Government and I are talking past each other a little bit. She would very much like to be satisfied on her premises, that is, on what is done but not on the result. However, I, who are in opposition, would very much like Sweden's policy to be measured on the basis of the actual results, not on the basis of how well the government's reform agenda is designed.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-865	Madam President, I would like I almost thought that it was rather the case that the Member of Parliament did not want to look at the measurements that did not confirm his world view. The work for integration and the establishment of newcomers in working and social life is a fundamental part of the government's goal of a society that holds together and provides equal opportunities for all. Sweden stands well in many international comparisons. However, they also highlight challenges, not least when much points to the fact that the current pandemic leads to a deterioration in the conditions for integration and establishment. No one would benefit if we turned a blind eye to the integration challenges we face, on the contrary. But they are not static truths either. Challenges can be turned into opportunities of political will and reform. Many important steps towards better integration were taken during the previous parliamentary term. The Housing Act was introduced so that the reception of new arrivals is governed by the conditions to get to work. There is a system in place for early intervention during the period of asylum, to promote future establishment. The requirements for newcomers to take part in work-related activities have been tightened up and an obligation to provide training has been introduced. Changes in parental insurance have been implemented, as have several initiatives to strengthen the school's work with newly arrived pupils. We will continue to work hard to close the performance gap in schools and in the labour market through continued efforts on long-term labour market interventions, through efforts at an equal school, by breaking segregation and by increasing equality. People who start again in Sweden will have the best conditions possible to establish themselves and contribute to our common welfare. So we can build a secure and strong society with free and independent residents.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-870	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me if I believe that migration has in any way contributed to segregation in Sweden and if I will do anything to investigate what that connection looks like or could look like. Segmentation and increased gaps in society are major challenges that need to be met. However, there is no single effort that alone can break the segregation. Force needs to be taken through both general and targeted efforts. The work needs to be carried out nationally, regionally and locally. The differences between areas with socio-economic challenges and in Sweden as a whole have decreased in some respects over the last ten years, including in terms of employment rates and eligibility for upper secondary school national programmes. At the same time, differences in disposable income have grown and school segregation has increased. The Government's Action Plan on segregation adopted in December 2020 is based on the Government's long-term strategy to reduce and counteract segregation. The action plan aims to make visible the efforts that the government is implementing or planning to implement in the next few years in order to counteract and eventually reduce socio-economic segregation in Sweden. Work has become even more urgent due to the coronapandemia, which risks deepening the inequalities and segregation that already exist. It is important to ensure proper integration and rapid establishment in working and social life for new arrivals. The establishment of N yan arrivals has gradually improved over a long period of time. However, foreign births generally have a weaker position on the labour market than domestic births, not least foreign-born women. In ntegration and segregation there are different phenomena, albeit to some extent interconnected. Simplified integration is about the extent to which people who have immigrated to Sweden are established in working and social life, while segregation is about the separation of groups. Good integration is likely to reduce some negative effects of segregation but does not have to have a direct impact on segregation in relation to, for example, housing and school. A starting point for the government's efforts to reduce and counteract segregation is that the work is based on knowledge and experience. This is why Delmos, the Delegation against segregation, is tasked with promoting knowledge exchange and monitoring and disseminating research and other knowledge. The Government has also decided to establish a national research programme on segregation. This can improve the conditions for achieving evidence and knowledge-based reforms that can help to reduce and counteract segregation in Sweden. In terms of follow-up, Statistics Sweden, SCB, has the Government's mission to present register statistics on integration. In August 2020, the Government commissioned SCB and Delmos to develop the process of monitoring and evaluating the development of integration and segregation throughout the country. The mandates shall be completed by 30 June 2021. As regards the question of whether I believe that migration has contributed to segregation in Sweden, I want to be clear. Receiving people who go to Sweden does not in itself create segregation. The Government's work e to reach the goal of reducing segregation, equal and equal growth and living conditions and good life chances for all continues. The development of increasing socio-economic segregation in Sweden must be reversed, and integration must work better. The commitment of the government to a national research programme on segregation, as well as ongoing work on the development of statistical access, will increase knowledge of socio-economic segregation and improve its follow-up. I therefore do not intend to initiate further action in this part at present.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-878	Mr President, I would like to The government recently presented an action plan aimed at reducing and counteracting segregation, and it will obviously give rise to the appearance of a high level of ambition. But on closer examination it becomes clear that the practical content is exactly the same policy that has caused the gauging segregation from the beginning, but perhaps in a new packaging. This document is a display window into the alternative reality of the Green Party, where a bunch of ministers work and live completely isolated from the causes and consequences of actual social development. The plan uses words such as long-term work, vulnerable groups, the breadth of actors, prevention and a knowledge-based and cross-sectoral approach. But behind these tired authorities there is no hint of problem insight, new thinking or even an analysis of what really has made segregation in Sweden a horror example for our neighbours. The concrete proposals contained in the plan concern the reduction of demands on people who choose to live on grants, increased contributions to corrupt study associations, increased contributions to immigrant associations working precisely for segregation, outreach efforts, grants to assembly rooms, tax-funded pleasures for asylum seekers, subsidised fake jobs and so on – just what has caused the problems from the outset. The question that makes itself directly applicable when you read this document is whether it is pure chance that everything that the Green Party wants in other policy areas should also in some magical way just counteract segregation, because that is what it looks like. But, of course, that is not the case. The idea of this plan is obviously that if you talk about things that you think are nice and want to do anyway and then call it politics against segregation, you don't have to talk about things that you don't think are nice and things that you don't want to do. And, Mr President, what Mrs Stenevi and her government want to do least of all is to talk about the real causes of this problem. Migration and immigration are not mentioned at all in this document. Rather, it is claimed that there is a lack of sufficient knowledge of the causes of segregation. You say something has happened in the last 20 years, but you can't really put your finger on what it would be. The answer to the question is quite simple. Over the past 20 years, Sweden has received millions of people from fallen states. These are people who find it very difficult to assert themselves on the Swedish labour market and who often have cultures and values that simply don't fit in here and that make it very difficult to blend in naturally in Sweden. That the Government has not noticed this can only be because she has her head very far down in the sand. How is it possible to live as an adult, normally functioning person in Sweden without seeing the obvious connection between the massive immigration we have had over the past 20 years and the elusive segregation? How is that possible, Mr President?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-886	Mr President, I would like to It is always exciting to debate with Ludvig Aspling and hear how to describe it. Lack of knowledge about the cause of segregation is a fact. However, I would like to give the honourable Member the right approach, as I hope it was at least in the question, namely that the overall understanding of the causes of segregation is inadequate. This is also stated in the Government's action plan against segregation. Funds are added to strengthen the research on segregation and thereby increase knowledge about the causes of segregation. At the same time, the Delegation against segregation is already underway with its knowledge-gathering work, and some research is already available. We know that social and economic divisions cause segregation. In the overall research, however, there is no significant indication that migration as such would be an explanatory variable to the phenomena described by the honourable Member – no matter how much the honourable Member shakes his head and sighs and groans. Research results suggest that segregation has been driven by a combination of growing income and wealth gaps, a reduction in public governance in housing and housing, and a sharp decrease in the rental sector. It is important to reduce the risk of further segregation being created by providing the best possible conditions for the establishment and integration of new arrivals. Nevertheless, I would like to dwell on the first point here, namely that more knowledge is needed about the causes of segregation. The MP calls for deeper analysis and a more scientific approach in the government's work. I am pleased that the honourable Member has science and analysis as a guiding principle. All the more remarkable is the fact that the Swedish Democrats want to abolish the Delegation against segregation. The delegation's mission is to promote collaboration and knowledge sharing and to monitor and disseminate research and other knowledge about segregation and its causes. I therefore hope that Ludvig Aspling will influence his party to support science and analysis and acknowledge the knowledge work on segregation that Delmos is tasked with, so that we can learn more about what causes segregation and how to break the segregation that we see in Sweden.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-893	Mr President, I would like to The Government points out again and again the lack of knowledge. You don't know why segregation is increasing. But then I recommend the Government to ask someone who does not belong to the Green Party, because everyone else knows. Only environmental parties do not know this. I can't believe it. The answer that the Government comes with is increased gaps, and then we have come a little bit along the way. The government has, as the Government points out, an authority called Delegation against segregation, Delmos, and it will research why segregation increases. This authority does not directly delve into the causes of segregation, but summarizes it on half an A4 page: a social and economic differences are considered best to explain segregation patterns in Sweden. Large income differentials are examples of what contributes to the increase in segregation. While all income groups in Sweden have improved their economy in recent decades, the socio-economic differences and gaps in Sweden have grown and thus also segregation. ..................................................... All right, but if you are the least interested in this, you have to start looking at why the socio-economic gaps are increasing. I would recommend to the Government to look a little at what SCB says. According to SCB, one in three born outside the EU is at risk of poverty in Sweden. In particular, SCB raises the low level of education of this group as a reason. In an analysis of SCB's measurement of the proportion of low-income earners, Jonas Fryklund, who at this time was acting Chief Economist of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, concludes that at least two thirds of the increase in the number of low-income earners since 2008 is due to immigration and that the remaining third is within the margin of error, which is why the whole increase may be due to immigration. A series of studies in this area, not least one called When does foreign born become self-sufficient? from the Entrepreneurship Forum, confirms the same. The reason we have very many and an increasing number of people with low economic standards in Sweden is immigration. It is important to emphasise one thing in this context. Our position on this issue has never been that people who move to Sweden from outside Europe find it difficult to get a job because they do not want or that they would have worse human qualities or so. That is absolutely not what we are saying. This is simply because many of these people come from fallen states where, unfortunately, the level of education is very low, the quality of education is poor and the labour market looks very different. In the case of people with good education and professional skills, they have not been able to use them for many years because the country's economy has not functioned because of wars and conflicts. There are therefore simple reasons why people moving to Sweden from outside Europe are doing worse. However, we are not saying that it is because they would have worse human qualities or so; we certainly do not. We're not blaming them for the problem. We're blaming Märta Stenevi and the government. We want to close Delmos because it becomes quite obvious when you look in the reports Delmos produces that Delmos is not looking to find the causes of segregation. Delmos is looking to do one thing and that is to justify the policy of the Green Party, that is, to give the position of the Green Party already taken an alibi. This is what Delmos is doing. We are not interested in paying for the political secretary of the Green Party, and that is why we want to close Delmos.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-903	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting that the honourable Member says in his speech that he finds it quite obvious that migration causes segregation. The honourable Member also asks me to go out on the street and talk to people. I would prefer us to look at what evidence we have been able to find for what drives what. It's a very important job. I think I will avoid commenting on the political secretaries and Delmos at all. It is an authority that is working to get the research on segregation and the causes of segregation that we at least at first sight seem to agree on is needed. Socioeconomic segregation is about the fact that in Swedish society there are significant inequalities between different geographical areas in terms of school outcomes, educational attainment, employment, income, health, security and participation in democracy and cultural life. There is no simple or unambiguous answer to the question of the causes of segregation. However, this will not prevent us from doing everything we can to improve integration so that everyone who comes to Sweden can establish themselves on the labour market and the housing market and in society as a whole. It is an ambition I perceive that Ludvig Aspling shares, and it is nice to know that we agree that more people need to get to work faster in Sweden. We are convinced that with sufficient political will it is possible to achieve well-functioning integration. No one has claimed that it is easy, and it takes hard work. But basically the integration problems are challenges we can influence. What we do know, however, is that we will not build this government's policy on assumptions, fairly obvious truths or gut feeling, but we will base ourselves on research and science to build our policy. Therefore, we have also set up a national research programme so that we will have more to go on when we develop the policies needed to break the segregation and improve integration and thus increase the life opportunities of everyone living in Sweden.
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-909	Mr President, I would like to Märta Stenevi says I should have asked her to go out on the street and look for answers. I just want to urge the Government not to go out on the street looking for the causes of segregation and certainly not here in Stockholm, because then she risks getting hurt. There are areas that are really dangerous. Don't go out on the street, do this from the office! That's my strongest recommendation. I grew up quite close to an alienation area and went to high school in another alienation area. I know these places. Don't go out on the street, but do this from the Government Office! Let me point out another flaw in the analysis made by the Government. For the Green Party, segregation is in practice the same as the gini coefficient, i.e. a simple measure of income distribution. This is what Märta Stenevi is talking about. Large income distribution is equal to high segregation. It's a very simplistic picture of reality. Sweden today has enormous problems with so-called honorary culture, forced marriages for children, religious fanaticism, racist attacks on emergency personnel, terrorist war travelers, genital mutilations, balcony girls, upbringing trips and so on. There are many new words that I had never heard of when I was in high school. Mr President, I would like to No thinking person can seriously deny that there is a connection between all this and the very large immigration we have had in the last 20 years. There's hardly anyone who denies it. The government may do so, but those who deny this connection today are relatively few. Does the Government seriously mean that in Sweden today there is no cultural or valuation segregation or division between different ethnic groups, i.e. large differences in what values you have, which makes segregation worse?
i-60ae8ec25ab27137-914	Mr President, I would like to Social and economic gaps separate Sweden, and the Equality Commission notes that the benefits from the social security systems have not been associated with income development while capital income for the richest have shrunk away. It has created economic divides and segregation. Those are facts. We have marketing school and housing systems that separate Swedes from different backgrounds so that many natural meetings never take place. These structures at school in the housing market deepen and exacerbate social gaps and segregation. These, too, are facts. I'm not happy with the way things look today. The development of increasing socio-economic segregation in Sweden must be reversed, and Sweden needs to be more equal. In the action plan against segregation, which is the subject of this interpellation debate, the government reports for the first time on the efforts that the government is implementing or planning to implement in the coming years to reduce and counteract segregation. The Action Plan makes the Government's policy for actors at different levels visible. The Action Plan presents 115 actions in several areas, including housing, education, the labour market, democracy and civil society, and crime. These are tough measures, soft measures, big ones and small ones. These range from facilitating the situation of households who find it difficult to obtain housing on market terms in order to improve the supply of housing to strengthening the drop-out activities of criminals. What the Action Plan does not contain, however, is migration policy because we do not find any scientifically proven direct links between migration and segregation. And if we are to overcome segregation, action must be based on facts, and it must aim for all children to grow up in security and with equal opportunities to become free, strong and independent adults.
